
Within A Budding Grove
在一片萌芽的小树林里

By Marcel Proust
马塞尔·普鲁斯特

Translated by C.K. Scott Moncrieff
译者：C.K.斯科特·蒙克里夫

Within A Budding Grove
在一片萌芽的小树林里

(A l’ombre des jeunes filles en fleurs)
（鲜花中的青年女孩的渐变）

[Vol. 2 of Remembrance of Things Past—
[卷。 2 追忆往事——

(À la Recherche du temps perdu)]
by Marcel Proust
马塞尔·普鲁斯特

Translated from the French by C. K. Scott Moncrieff
C. K. Scott Moncrieff 译自法文



TRANSLATOR’S DEDICATION
译者的奉献精神

To
K. S. S.
K.S.S.


That men in armour may be born
身穿盔甲的男人可能会诞生

 With serpents’ teeth the field is sown;
用蛇的牙齿播种田地；

Rains mould, winds bend, suns gild the corn
雨水发霉，风弯曲，阳光给玉米镀上金色

 Too quickly ripe, too early mown.
成熟得太快，割得太早。


I scan the quivering heads, behold
我扫视着那些颤抖的头颅，瞧

 The features, catch the whispered breath
特征，捕捉低语呼吸

Of friends long garnered in the cold
那些长期在寒冷中相聚的朋友

 Unopening granaries of death,
死亡的粮仓未开启，


Whose names in solemn cadence ring
谁的名字在庄严的节奏中响起

 Across my slow oblivious page.
穿过我缓慢而遗忘的页面。

Their friendship was a finer thing
他们的友谊是更美好的事情

 Than fame, or wealth, or honoured age,
比名声、财富、年华，


And—while you live and I—shall last
而且——当你和我还活着的时候——将会持续下去

 Its tale of seasons with us yet
季节的故事还与我们同在

Who cherish, in the undying past,
谁珍惜，在不朽的过去，

 The men we never can forget.
那些我们永远无法忘记的人。


Bad Kissingen, C. K. S. M.
巴特基辛根，C. K. S. M.

July 31, 1923.
1923 年 7 月 31 日。

CONTENTS
内容

Part I
第一部分

MADAME SWANN AT HOME A break in the narrative: old friends in new aspects—The Marquis de Norpois—Bergotte—How I cease for the time being to see Gilberte: a general outline of the sorrow caused by a parting and of the irregular process of oblivion.
斯万夫人在家 叙述中的中断：老朋友的新面貌——诺普瓦侯爵——贝尔戈特——我如何暂时不再见到希尔贝特：对离别所造成的悲伤和不规则的过程的概述遗忘。

PLACE-NAMES: THE PLACE My first visit to Balbec—First impressions of M. de Charlus and of Robert de Saint-Loup—Dinner with Bloch and his family.
地名：地点 我第一次访问巴尔贝克——对德·夏吕斯先生和罗伯特·德·圣卢的第一印象——与布洛赫及其家人共进晚餐。

Part II
第二部分

PLACE-NAMES: THE PLACE (CONTINUED) First impressions of M. de Charlus and of Robert de Saint-Loup—Dinner with Bloch and his family.
地名：地点（续） 对德·夏吕斯先生和罗伯特·德·圣卢的第一印象——与布洛赫及其家人共进晚餐。

SEASCAPE, WITH FRIEZE OF GIRLS Dinners at Rivebelle—Enter Albertine.
海景，女孩们在里维贝尔的晚餐——阿尔贝蒂娜上场。

PART I
第一部分


MADAME SWANN AT HOME
斯万夫人在家

My mother, when it was a question of our having M. de Norpois to dinner for the first time, having expressed her regret that Professor Cottard was away from home, and that she herself had quite ceased to see anything of Swann, since either of these might have helped to entertain the old Ambassador, my father replied that so eminent a guest, so distinguished a man of science as Cottard could never be out of place at a dinner-table, but that Swann, with his ostentation, his habit of crying aloud from the housetops the name of everyone that he knew, however slightly, was an impossible vulgarian whom the Marquis de Norpois would be sure to dismiss as—to use his own epithet—a ‘pestilent’ fellow. Now, this attitude on my father’s part may be felt to require a few words of explanation, inasmuch as some of us, no doubt, remember a Cottard of distinct mediocrity and a Swann by whom modesty and discretion, in all his social relations, were carried to the utmost refinement of delicacy. But in his case, what had happened was that, to the original ‘young Swann’ and also to the Swann of the Jockey Club, our old friend had added a fresh personality (which was not to be his last), that of Odette’s husband. Adapting to the humble ambitions of that lady the instinct, the desire, the industry which he had always had, he had laboriously constructed for himself, a long way beneath the old, a new position more appropriate to the companion who was to share it with him. In this he shewed himself another man. Since (while he continued to go, by himself, to the houses of his own friends, on whom he did not care to inflict Odette unless they had expressly asked that she should be introduced to them) it was a new life that he had begun to lead, in common with his wife, among a new set of people, it was quite intelligible that, in order to estimate the importance of these new friends and thereby the pleasure, the self-esteem that were to be derived from entertaining them, he should have made use, as a standard of comparison, not of the brilliant society in which he himself had moved before his marriage but of the earlier environment of Odette. And yet, even when one knew that it was with unfashionable officials and their faded wives, the wallflowers of ministerial ball-rooms, that he was now anxious to associate, it was still astonishing to hear him, who in the old days, and even still, would so gracefully refrain from mentioning an invitation to Twickenham or to Marlborough House, proclaim with quite unnecessary emphasis that the wife of some Assistant Under-Secretary for Something had returned Mme. Swann’s call. It will perhaps be objected here that what this really implied was that the simplicity of the fashionable Swann had been nothing more than a supreme refinement of vanity, and that, like certain other Israelites, my parents’ old friend had contrived to illustrate in turn all the stages through which his race had passed, from the crudest and coarsest form of snobbishness up to the highest pitch of good manners. But the chief reason—and one which is applicable to humanity as a whole—was that our virtues themselves are not free and floating qualities over which we retain a permanent control and power of disposal; they come to be so closely linked in our minds with the actions in conjunction with which we make it our duty to practise them, that, if we are suddenly called upon to perform some action of a different order, it takes us by surprise, and without our supposing for a moment that it might involve the bringing of those very same virtues into play. Swann, in his intense consciousness of his new social surroundings, and in the pride with which he referred to them, was like those great artists—modest or generous by nature—who, if at the end of their career they take to cooking or to gardening, display a childlike gratification at the compliments that are paid to their dishes or their borders, and will not listen to any of the criticism which they heard unmoved when it was applied to their real achievements; or who, after giving away a canvas, cannot conceal their annoyance if they lose a couple of francs at dominoes.
我的母亲，当我们第一次请德·诺布瓦先生共进晚餐时，她对科塔尔教授不在家里表示遗憾，而且她本人也完全不再见到斯旺的任何东西，因为无论是这些可能有助于招待老大使，我父亲回答说，像科塔尔这样一位杰出的客人，一位杰出的科学家，在餐桌上永远不会显得格格不入，但是斯万，由于他的炫耀，他习惯于他在屋顶上大声喊叫，他所认识的每个人的名字，无论多么轻微，都是一个不可能的庸俗之人，诺普瓦侯爵肯定会斥之为——用他自己的绰号——一个“瘟疫”家伙。现在，我父亲的这种态度可能需要几句话来解释，因为毫无疑问，我们中的一些人还记得一个明显平庸的科塔尔和一个斯旺，在他的所有社会关系中，谦虚和谨慎是他的特点。将精致做到了极致。但就他而言，所发生的事情是，我们的老朋友为原来的“年轻的斯旺”以及赛马会的斯旺增添了一个新鲜的个性（这不会​​是他的最后一个），即奥黛特的丈夫。 。为了适应这位女士卑微的野心，他一直拥有的本能、欲望和勤奋，他费尽心力地为自己建造了一个远远低于旧位置的新位置，更适合与他分享这个位置的伴侣。他。在这一点上，他向自己展示了另一个人。 因为（虽然他继续独自去他自己朋友的家，他不愿意对他们施加伤害，除非他们明确要求将她介绍给他们），这是他开始的新生活和他的妻子一起领导一群新朋友，这是很容易理解的，为了评估这些新朋友的重要性，从而评估招待他们所带来的快乐和自尊，作为比较标准，他不应该利用他自己婚前居住的辉煌社会，而应该利用奥黛特早期的环境。然而，即使当人们知道他现在急于与那些不合时宜的官员和他们褪色的妻子、部长级舞厅的壁花交往时，听到他的声音仍然令人惊讶，在过去，甚至在尽管如此，我仍会如此优雅地避免提及特威克纳姆或马尔伯勒宫的邀请，并以相当不必要的强调宣布某位主管某事的助理副国务卿的妻子已经返回了夫人。斯旺的电话。也许有人会反对，这实际上意味着时尚斯旺的简单只不过是虚荣心的极致精致，而且像其他某些以色列人一样，我父母的老朋友也设法依次说明了这一切。他的种族经历了哪些阶段，从最粗鲁、最粗俗的势利形式到最高程度的礼貌。 但主要原因——并且适用于整个人类——是我们的美德本身并不是自由和浮动的品质，我们对其保持永久的控制和支配权；相反，我们的美德本身并不是自由的、浮动的品质，我们对其保持永久的控制和支配权。它们在我们的头脑中与我们的行动紧密相连，我们有责任去实践它们，以至于如果我们突然被要求执行某种不同顺序的行动，我们会感到惊讶，并且我们暂时没有想到它可能涉及发挥这些完全相同的美德。斯旺对新的社会环境有强烈的意识，并且在提到这些环境时感到自豪，就像那些伟大的艺术家一样——谦虚或慷慨——他们在职业生涯结束时会去做饭或做事。园艺，对人们对他们的菜肴或边界的赞美表现出一种孩子般的满足，并且不会听取任何他们听到的批评，当这些批评应用于他们的真正成就时，他们无动于衷；或者，在赠送画布后，如果在多米诺骨牌上输了几个法郎，他们就无法掩饰自己的烦恼。

As for Professor Cottard, we shall meet him again and can study him at our leisure, much later in the course of our story, with the ‘Mistress,’ Mme. Verdurin, in her country house La Raspelière. For the present, the following observations must suffice; first of all, in the case of Swann the alteration might indeed be surprising, since it had been accomplished and yet was not suspected by me when I used to see Gilberte’s father in the Champs-Elysées, where, moreover, as he never spoke to me, he could not very well have made any display of his political relations. It is true that, if he had done so, I might not at once have discerned his vanity, for the idea that one has long held of a person is apt to stop one’s eyes and ears; my mother, for three whole years, had no more noticed the salve with which one of her nieces used to paint her lips than if it had been wholly and invisibly dissolved in some clear liquid; until one day a streak too much, or possibly something else, brought about the phenomenon known as super-saturation; all the paint that had hitherto passed unperceived was now crystallised, and my mother, in the face of this sudden riot of colour, declared, in the best Combray manner, that it was a perfect scandal, and almost severed relations with her niece. With Cottard, on the contrary, the epoch in which we have seen him assisting at the first introduction of Swann to the Verdurins was now buried in the past; whereas honours, offices and titles come with the passage of years; moreover, a man may be illiterate, and make stupid puns, and yet have a special gift, which no amount of general culture can replace—such as the gift of a great strategist or physician. And so it was not merely as an obscure practitioner, who had attained in course of time to European celebrity, that the rest of his profession regarded Cottard. The most intelligent of the younger doctors used to assert—for a year or two, that is to say, for fashions, being themselves begotten of the desire for change, are quick to change also—that if they themselves ever fell ill Cottard was the only one of the leading men to whom they would entrust their lives. No doubt they preferred, socially, to meet certain others who were better read, more artistic, with whom they could discuss Nietzsche and Wagner. When there was a musical party at Mme. Cottard’s, on the evenings when she entertained—in the hope that it might one day make him Dean of the Faculty—the colleagues and pupils of her husband, he, instead of listening, preferred to play cards in another room. Yet everybody praised the quickness, the penetration, the unerring confidence with which, at a glance, he could diagnose disease. Thirdly, in considering the general impression which Professor Cottard must have made on a man like my father, we must bear in mind that the character which a man exhibits in the latter half of his life is not always, even if it is often his original character developed or withered, attenuated or enlarged; it is sometimes the exact opposite, like a garment that has been turned. Except from the Verdurins, who were infatuated with him, Cottard’s hesitating manner, his excessive timidity and affability had, in his young days, called down upon him endless taunts and sneers. What charitable friend counselled that glacial air? The importance of his professional standing made it all the more easy to adopt. Wherever he went, save at the Verdurins’, where he instinctively became himself again, he would assume a repellent coldness, remain silent as long as possible, be peremptory when he was obliged to speak, and not forget to say the most cutting things. He had every opportunity of rehearsing this new attitude before his patients, who, seeing him for the first time, were not in a position to make comparisons, and would have been greatly surprised to learn that he was not at all a rude man by nature. Complete impassivity was what he strove to attain, and even while visiting his hospital wards, when he allowed himself to utter one of those puns which left everyone, from the house physician to the junior student, helpless with laughter, he would always make it without moving a muscle of his face, while even that was no longer recognisable now that he had shaved off his beard and moustache.
至于科塔尔教授，我们将再次见到他，并可以在我们故事的稍后部分与“情妇”夫人一起闲暇时研究他。韦尔迪兰，在她的乡间别墅拉斯佩利埃 (La Raspelière)。目前，以下观察结果就足够了；首先，就斯万而言，这种改变确实令人惊讶，因为它已经完成了，但当我在香榭丽舍大街见到希尔贝特的父亲时，我并没有怀疑，而且，因为他从来没有和他说过话。对我来说，他不太可能表现出任何政治关系。确实，如果他这么做了，我可能不会一下子就看出他的虚荣心，因为对一个人的长期抱有的想法很容易让人视而不见。我的母亲整整三年都没有注意到她的一个侄女用来涂嘴唇的药膏，就好像它完全无形地溶解在某种透明液体中一样。直到有一天，连续出现过多的现象，或者可能是其他原因，导致了所谓的超饱和现象；迄今为止未被察觉的所有颜料现在都已结晶，而我的母亲面对这突然的色彩缤纷，以贡布雷最好的方式宣布，这是一个完美的丑闻，并几乎断绝了与她侄女的关系。相反，对于科塔尔来说，我们看到他协助首次将斯万介绍给维尔迪兰家族的时代现在已经成为过去。荣誉、职位和头衔随着岁月的流逝而获得；此外，一个人可能是文盲，会说愚蠢的双关语，但却拥有任何一般文化都无法取代的特殊天赋，例如伟大的战略家或医生的天赋。 因此，科塔尔不仅是一位默默无闻的实践者，随着时间的推移而成为欧洲名人，其他业内人士也对科塔尔产生了敬意。最聪明的年轻医生曾经断言——在一两年内，也就是说，对于时尚本身来说，由于渴望改变，所以也很快就会改变——如果他们自己生病了，科塔尔就是只有一位他们愿意托付生命的主要人物。毫无疑问，在社交方面，他们更愿意结识某些读得更好、更有艺术天赋的人，可以与他们讨论尼采和瓦格纳。当夫人举办音乐派对时。在科塔尔家，晚上她招待她丈夫的同事和学生——希望有一天能让他成为学院院长——时，他宁愿在另一个房间里打牌，而不是听。然而，每个人都称赞他的敏捷性、洞察力和准确无误的信心，一眼就能诊断出疾病。第三，在考虑科塔尔教授给像我父亲这样的人留下的总体印象时，我们必须记住，一个人在后半生所表现出的性格并不总是如此，即使这往往是他最初的性格。性格发展或枯萎、减弱或扩大；有时恰恰相反，就像一件翻过的衣服。除了迷恋他的维尔迪兰家族之外，科塔尔年轻时犹豫不决的态度、过度的胆怯和和蔼可亲，给他招来了无尽的嘲讽和冷笑。哪一位仁慈的朋友劝导了这种冰冷的空气？他的专业地位的重要性使得它更容易被采用。 无论他走到哪里，除了在维尔迪兰家，在那里他本能地又恢复了原来的样子，他都会表现出一种令人厌恶的冷漠，尽可能长时间地保持沉默，当他不得不说话时，他会专横跋扈，而且不忘记说一些最尖锐的话。他有充分的机会在病人面前演练这种新态度，而病人第一次见到他时，无法进行比较，如果得知他本质上根本不是一个粗鲁的人，他们会感到非常惊讶。完全的冷漠是他努力做到的，甚至在探访医院病房时，当他允许自己说出一个双关语时，让每个人，从家庭医生到低年级学生，都笑得无助，他总是能做到不带任何笑意。他脸上的一块肌肉在动，但现在他已经剃掉了胡须和小胡子，连那块肌肉都无法辨认了。

But who, the reader has been asking, was the Marquis de Norpois? Well, he had been Minister Plenipotentiary before the War, and was actually an Ambassador on the Sixteenth of May; in spite of which, and to the general astonishment, he had since been several times chosen to represent France on Extraordinary Missions,—even as Controller of the Public Debt in Egypt, where, thanks to his great capability as a financier, he had rendered important services—by Radical Cabinets under which a reactionary of the middle classes would have declined to serve, and in whose eyes M. de Norpois, in view of his past, his connexions and his opinions, ought presumably to have been suspect. But these advanced Ministers seemed to consider that, in making such an appointment, they were shewing how broad their own minds were, when the supreme interests of France were at stake, were raising themselves above the general run of politicians, were meriting, from the Journal des Débats itself, the title of ‘Statesmen,’ and were reaping direct advantage from the weight that attaches to an aristocratic name and the dramatic interest always aroused by an unexpected appointment. And they knew also that they could reap these advantages by making an appeal to M. de Norpois, without having to fear any want of political loyalty on his part, a fault against which his noble birth not only need not put them on their guard but offered a positive guarantee. And in this calculation the Government of the Republic were not mistaken. In the first place, because an aristocrat of a certain type, brought up from his cradle to regard his name as an integral part of himself of which no accident can deprive him (an asset of whose value his peers, or persons of even higher rank, can form a fairly exact estimate), knows that he can dispense with the efforts (since they can in no way enhance his position) in which, without any appreciable result, so many public men of the middle class spend themselves,—to profess only the ‘right’ opinions, to frequent only the ‘sound’ people. Anxious, on the other hand, to increase his own importance in the eyes of the princely or ducal families which take immediate precedence of his own, he knows that he can do so by giving his name that complement which hitherto it has lacked, which will give it priority over other names heraldically its equals: such as political power, a literary or an artistic reputation, or a large fortune. And so what he saves by avoiding the society of the ineffective country squires, after whom all the professional families run helter-skelter, but of his intimacy with whom, were he to profess it, a prince would think nothing, he will lavish on the politicians who (free-masons, or worse, though they be) can advance him in Diplomacy or ‘back’ him in an election, and on the artists or scientists whose patronage can help him to ‘arrive’ in those departments in which they excel, on everyone, in fact, who is in a position to confer a fresh distinction or to ‘bring off’ a rich marriage.
但读者一直在问，诺布瓦侯爵是谁？嗯，战前他是全权公使，实际上是五月十六日的大使；尽管如此，令普遍惊讶的是，他此后多次被选为代表法国执行特别任务的人，甚至担任埃及公共债务总监，由于他作为金融家的出色能力，他在埃及激进内阁的重要职务——中产阶级的反动分子会拒绝在激进内阁中任职，而在他们眼中，鉴于德·诺普瓦先生的过去、他的关系和他的观点，他应该受到怀疑。但这些先进的部长们似乎认为，在法国的最高利益受到威胁时，在做出这样的任命时，他们展示了自己的胸怀是多么宽广，他们将自己置于一般政客之上，值得从《辩论杂志》本身就是“政治家”的头衔，它从贵族名字的分量和意外任命总是引起的戏剧性兴趣中获得直接优势。他们还知道，他们可以通过向德·诺布瓦先生提出上诉来获得这些优势，而不必担心他缺乏政治忠诚度，而他的贵族出身不仅不需要让他们警惕这一过错，而且还可以让他们保持警惕。提供了积极的保障。共和国政府的这一计算并没有错误。 首先，因为某种类型的贵族，从他的摇篮中长大，就将自己的名字视为自己不可分割的一部分，任何意外都不能剥夺他的财富（一种资产，其价值是他的同辈人，甚至更高级别的人所拥有的）。 ，可以形成一个相当准确的估计），他知道他可以省去许多中产阶级公职人员所付出的努力（因为这些努力根本无法提高他的地位），但没有任何明显的结果，——只接受“正确”的意见，只与“健全”的人交往。另一方面，他渴望提高自己在那些优先于他自己的王室或公爵家族眼中的重要性，他知道他可以通过给他的名字赋予迄今为止所缺乏的补充来做到这一点，这将赋予它优先于其他象征性的名称：例如政治权力、文学或艺术声誉或巨额财富。因此，他通过避开无能的乡村乡绅的社会而节省了一些钱，所有的职业家庭都在他们之后仓皇行事，但他与他们的亲密关系，如果他承认这一点，王子不会考虑什么，他会在政治家（共济会会员，或者更糟，尽管他们是）可以在外交上提升他或在选举中“支持”他，以及艺术家或科学家的赞助可以帮助他“到达”他们擅长的部门事实上，每个人都有能力赋予新的荣誉或“带来”美满的婚姻。

But in the character of M. de Norpois there was this predominant feature, that, in the course of a long career of diplomacy, he had become imbued with that negative, methodical, conservative spirit, called ‘governmental,’ which is common to all Governments and, under every Government, particularly inspires its Foreign Office. He had imbibed, during that career, an aversion, a dread, a contempt for the methods of procedure, more or less revolutionary and in any event quite incorrect, which are those of an Opposition. Save in the case of a few illiterates—high or low, it makes no matter—by whom no difference in quality is perceptible, what attracts men one to another is not a common point of view but a consanguinity of spirit. An Academician of the kind of Legouvé, and therefore an upholder of the classics, would applaud Maxime Ducamp’s or Mezière’s eulogy of Victor Hugo with more fervour than that of Boileau by Claudel. A common Nationalism suffices to endear Barrés to his electors, who scarcely distinguish between him and M. Georges Berry, but does not endear him to those of his brother Academicians who, with a similar outlook on politics but a different type of mind, will prefer to him even such open adversaries as M. Ribot and M. Deschanel, with whom, in turn, the most loyal Monarchists feel themselves more closely allied than with Maurras or Léon Daudet, although these also are living in the hope of a glorious Restoration. Miserly in the use of words, not only from a professional scruple of prudence and reserve, but because words themselves have more value, present more subtleties of definition to men whose efforts, protracted over a decade, to bring two countries to an understanding, are condensed, translated—in a speech or in a protocol—into a single adjective, colourless in all appearance, but to them pregnant with a world of meaning, M. de Norpois was considered very stiff, at the Commission, where he sat next to my father, whom everyone else congratulated on the astonishing way in which the old Ambassador unbent to him. My father was himself more astonished than anyone. For not being, as a rule, very affable, his company was little sought outside his own intimate circle, a limitation which he used modestly and frankly to avow. He realised that these overtures were an outcome, in the diplomat, of that point of view which everyone adopts for himself in making his choice of friends, from which all a man’s intellectual qualities, his refinement, his affection are a far less potent recommendation of him, when at the same time he bores or irritates one, than are the mere straightforwardness and good-humour of another man whom most people would regard as frivolous or even fatuous. ‘De Norpois has asked me to dinner again; it’s quite extraordinary; everyone on the Commission is amazed, as he never has any personal relations with any of us. I am sure he’s going to tell me something thrilling, again, about the ‘Seventy war.’ My father knew that M. de Norpois had warned, had perhaps been alone in warning the Emperor of the growing strength and bellicose designs of Prussia, and that Bismarck rated his intelligence most highly. Only the other day, at the Opera, during the gala performance given for King Theodosius, the newspapers had all drawn attention to the long conversation which that Monarch had held with M. de Norpois. ‘I must ask him whether the King’s visit had any real significance,’ my father went on, for he was keenly interested in foreign politics. ‘I know old Norpois keeps very close as a rule, but when he’s with me he opens out quite charmingly.’
但德·诺布瓦先生的性格中有一个显着的特点，那就是，在长期的外交生涯中，他已经充满了消极的、有条理的、保守的精神，被称为“政府”，这是所有人都共有的。各国政府以及每届政府领导下的外交部尤其受到启发。在他的职业生涯中，他对反对派的程序方法产生了厌恶、恐惧和蔑视，这些程序方法或多或少是革命性的，无论如何都是相当不正确的。除了少数文盲——无论高低文盲——他们看不出素质的差异，吸引人们彼此的不是共同的观点，而是精神上的血缘关系。勒古韦这样的院士，因而也是古典的拥护者，会比克洛岱尔对布瓦洛的赞歌更加热情地赞扬马克西姆·杜康或梅齐埃对维克多·雨果的悼词。共同的民族主义足以让巴雷受到选民的喜爱，他们几乎不区分他和乔治·贝里先生，但也不会让他受到他​​的兄弟院士的喜爱，这些院士有着相似的政治观点，但头脑不同，会更喜欢他。对他来说，甚至是像里博先生和丹斯切尔先生这样公开的对手，反过来，最忠诚的君主主义者也觉得自己与他们的关系比与毛拉斯或莱昂·都德的关系更密切，尽管他们也生活在光荣的复辟希望之中。 词语使用上的吝啬，不仅是出于职业上的谨慎和保留，而且是因为词语本身具有更多的价值，为人们提供了更微妙的定义，而这些人历经了十多年的努力，使两国达成谅解，在一次演讲或一份协议中，这些词被浓缩、翻译成一个形容词，表面上毫无色彩，但对他们来说却蕴藏着丰富的意义，在委员会里，德·诺普瓦先生被认为非常僵硬，他坐在旁边我的父亲，其他人都祝贺老大使对他的不屈不挠的令人惊讶的方式。我父亲比任何人都更加惊讶。由于他通常不太和蔼可亲，因此在他自己的亲密圈子之外很少有人寻求他的陪伴，他谦虚而坦率地承认了这一限制。他意识到，在外交官看来，这些提议是每个人在选择朋友时所采取的观点的结果，从这个观点来看，一个人的所有智力素质、他的文雅、他的感情都远没有那么有力地推荐给他的朋友。当他同时让一个人感到厌烦或恼怒时，他的直率和幽默感比另一个大多数人会认为轻浮甚至愚蠢的人要好得多。 “德·诺普瓦又请我吃饭了；这很不寻常；委员会的每个人都感到惊讶，因为他与我们任何人都没有任何私人关系。我相信他会再次告诉我一些关于“七十战争”的令人兴奋的事情。我父亲知道德·诺普瓦先生曾警告过，也许他是唯一一个警告皇帝普鲁士日益增长的实力和好战图谋的人，并且俾斯麦对他的智力评价最高。 就在前几天，在歌剧院为狄奥多西国王举行的盛大演出期间，所有报纸都引起了人们对君主与德·诺布瓦先生的长谈的关注。 “我必须问他国王的访问是否有任何真正的意义，”我父亲继续说道，因为他对外交政治非常感兴趣。 “我知道老诺普瓦通常都非常亲密，但当他和我在一起时，他会非常迷人地敞开心扉。’

As for my mother, perhaps the Ambassador had not the type of mind towards which she felt herself most attracted. I should add that his conversation furnished so exhaustive a glossary of the superannuated forms of speech peculiar to a certain profession, class and period—a period which, for that profession and that class, might be said not to have altogether passed away—that I sometimes regret that I have not kept any literal record simply of the things that I have heard him say. I should thus have obtained an effect of old-fashioned courtesy by the same process and at as little expense as that actor at the Palais-Royal who, when asked where on earth he managed to find his astounding hats, answered, ‘I do not find my hats. I keep them.’ In a word, I suppose that my mother considered M. de Norpois a trifle ‘out-of-date,’ which was by no means a fault in her eyes, so far as manners were concerned, but attracted her less in the region—not, in this instance, of ideas, for those of M. de Norpois were extremely modern—but of idiom. She felt, however, that she was paying a delicate compliment to her husband when she spoke admiringly of the diplomat who had shewn so remarkable a predilection for him. By confirming in my father’s mind the good opinion that he already had of M. de Norpois, and so inducing him to form a good opinion of himself also, she knew that she was carrying out that one of her wifely duties which consisted in making life pleasant and comfortable for her husband, just as when she saw to it that his dinner was perfectly cooked and served in silence. And as she was incapable of deceiving my father, she compelled herself to admire the old Ambassador, so as to be able to praise him with sincerity. Incidentally she could naturally, and did, appreciate his kindness, his somewhat antiquated courtesy (so ceremonious that when, as he was walking along the street, his tall figure rigidly erect, he caught sight of my mother driving past, before raising his hat to her he would fling away the cigar that he had just lighted); his conversation, so elaborately circumspect, in which he referred as seldom as possible to himself and always considered what might interest the person to whom he was speaking; his promptness in answering a letter, which was so astonishing that whenever my father, just after posting one himself to M. de Norpois, saw his handwriting upon an envelope, his first thought was always one of annoyance that their letters must, unfortunately, have crossed in the post; which, one was led to suppose, bestowed upon him the special and luxurious privilege of extraordinary deliveries and collections at all hours of the day and night. My mother marvelled at his being so punctilious although so busy, so friendly although so much in demand, never realising that ‘although,’ with such people, is invariably an unrecognised ‘because,’ and that (just as old men are always wonderful for their age, and kings extraordinarily simple, and country cousins astonishingly well-informed) it was the same system of habits that enabled M. de Norpois to undertake so many duties and to be so methodical in answering letters, to go everywhere and to be so friendly when he came to us. Moreover she made the mistake which everyone makes who is unduly modest; she rated everything that concerned herself below, and consequently outside the range of, other people’s duties and engagements. The letter which it seemed to her so meritorious in my father’s friend to have written us promptly, since in the course of the day he must have had ever so many letters to write, she excepted from that great number of letters, of which actually it was a unit; in the same way she did not consider that dining with us was, for M. de Norpois, merely one of the innumerable activities of his social life; she never guessed that the Ambassador had trained himself, long ago, to look upon dining-out as one of his diplomatic functions, and to display, at table, an inveterate charm which it would have been too much to have expected him specially to discard when he came to dine with us.
至于我的母亲，也许大使没有她认为最吸引她的那种心态。我应该补充一点，他的谈话对某个职业、阶级和时期所特有的过时的言语形式提供了如此详尽的词汇表——对于那个职业和那个阶级来说，这个时期可以说还没有完全消失——所以我有时我会后悔自己没有简单地记录下我听到他说的话。因此，我应该通过同样的过程和尽可能少的费用获得老式礼貌的效果，就像皇家宫殿的那位演员一样，当被问到他在地球上哪里找到了他令人震惊的帽子时，他回答说：“我不知道”找到我的帽子。我保留它们。总而言之，我想我母亲认为德·诺普瓦先生有些“过时”，就礼仪而言，这在她看来绝不是一个错误，而是吸引了她与该地区无关——在这种情况下，不是思想，因为德·诺普瓦先生的思想非常现代——而是习语。然而，当她钦佩地谈到这位对丈夫表现出如此非凡的偏爱的外交官时，她觉得自己是在向丈夫表达一种微妙的赞美。通过在我父亲心里确认他对德·诺普瓦先生的好感，并因此引导他对自己也形成好感，她知道她正在履行她作为妻子的职责之一，即创造生活。对她的丈夫来说，这是愉快而舒适的，就像她确保他的晚餐煮得很完美，并在安静的情况下端上来一样。由于她无法欺骗我的父亲，她就强迫自己对老大使表示敬佩，以便能够真诚地赞扬他。 顺便说一句，她自然可以而且确实欣赏他的善良，他那有点过时的礼貌（如此隆重，以至于当他沿着街道行走时，他高大的身躯笔直地挺着身子，看到我母亲开车经过，然后向他举起帽子。他会把刚刚点燃的雪茄扔给她）；他的谈话非常谨慎，他在谈话中尽可能少提及自己，总是考虑谈话对象可能感兴趣的事情。他回信的速度如此之快，令人惊讶，每当我父亲亲自给德·诺普瓦先生寄一封信后，看到他在信封上的笔迹，他的第一个念头总是一种恼怒，因为不幸的是，他们的信肯定被在柱子上划线；有人认为，这赋予了他一种特殊而奢侈的特权，可以在白天和晚上的所有时间进行非凡的交付和收集。我母亲惊叹于他虽然如此忙碌，却如此一丝不苟，虽然需求量如此之大，却如此友善，却从未意识到，对于这样的人来说，“虽然”总是一个未被认识到的“因为”，而且（就像老人总是对老人很友善一样） （他们的年龄，国王非常简单，乡村表兄弟们消息灵通得惊人）正是同样的习惯体系使德·诺布瓦先生能够承担如此多的职责，并如此有条不紊地回信，到处走走，如此当他来找我们时很友好。此外，她还犯了每个过分谦虚的人都会犯的错误。她对与自己有关的所有事情的评价都低于其他人的职责和参与范围，因此也超出了其他人的职责和参与范围。 在她看来，我父亲的朋友及时给我们写了这封信是非常有功劳的，因为在这一天里，他一定有那么多的信要写，她从那大量的信中剔除了，其中实际上是是一个单位；同样，对于德·诺布瓦先生来说，她也不认为和我们一起吃饭只是他社交生活中无数活动之一；她万万没想到，大使很久以前就训练自己把外出就餐视为外交职能之一，并在餐桌上展现出一种根深蒂固的魅力，如果指望他特意放弃这种魅力，那就太过分了。当他来和我们一起吃饭时。

The evening on which M. de Norpois first appeared at our table, in a year when I still went to play in the Champs-Elysées, has remained fixed in my memory because the afternoon of the same day was that upon which I at last went to hear Berma, at a matinée, in Phèdre, and also because in talking to M. de Norpois I realised suddenly, and in a new and different way, how completely the feelings aroused in me by all that concerned Gilberte Swann and her parents differed from any that the same family could inspire in anyone else.
德·诺普瓦先生第一次出现在我们餐桌上的那天晚上，那一年我还去香榭丽舍大街玩耍，这件事一直留在我的记忆中，因为那天下午我最后去了。在菲德尔的一场日场演出中聆听贝尔玛的表演，也因为在与德·诺布瓦先生交谈时，我突然以一种新的、不同的方式意识到，所有有关吉尔贝特·斯万和她父母的人在我心中激起的感情是多么完全不同来自同一个家庭可以激励其他任何人的任何东西。

It was no doubt the sight of the depression in which I was plunged by the approach of the New Year holidays, in which, as she herself had informed me, I was to see nothing of Gilberte, that prompted my mother one day, in the hope of distracting my mind, to suggest, ‘If you are still so anxious to hear Berma, I think that your father would allow you perhaps to go; your grandmother can take you.’
毫无疑问，随着新年假期的临近，我陷入了一种沮丧的景象，正如她本人告诉我的那样，在这种情况下，我再也见不到希尔贝特了，这促使我母亲有一天在希望分散我的注意力，建议：“如果你仍然急于听贝尔玛的话，我想你的父亲也许会允许你去；”你的祖母可以带你去。

But it was because M. de Norpois had told him that he ought to let me hear Berma, that it was an experience for a young man to remember in later life, that my father, who had hitherto been so resolutely opposed to my going and wasting my time, with the added risk of my falling ill again, on what he used to shock my grandmother by calling ‘futilities,’ was now not far from regarding this manner of spending an afternoon as included, in some vague way, in the list of precious formulae for success in a brilliant career. My grandmother, who, in renouncing on my behalf the profit which, according to her, I should have derived from hearing Berma, had made a considerable sacrifice in the interests of my health, was surprised to find that this last had become of no account at a mere word from M. de Norpois. Reposing the unconquerable hopes of her rationalist spirit in the strict course of fresh air and early hours which had been prescribed for me, she now deplored, as something disastrous, this infringement that I was to make of my rules, and in a tone of despair protested, ‘How easily led you are!’ to my father, who replied angrily ‘What! So it’s you that are not for letting him go, now. That is really too much, after your telling us all day and every day that it would be so good for him.’
但正是因为德·诺普瓦先生告诉他，他应该让我听听贝尔玛的演讲，因为这是一个年轻人在以后的生活中值得铭记的经历，所以我的父亲，迄今为止一直坚决反对我去，并且把我的时间浪费在我再次生病的风险上，在他曾经用“徒劳”来震惊我祖母的事情上，现在已经不远了，我已经将这种度过一个下午的方式以某种模糊的方式包含在了我的生活中。辉煌职业生涯中成功的宝贵公式清单。我的祖母为了我的健康，代表我放弃了我应该从聆听贝尔玛中获得的利益，她为此做出了相当大的牺牲，但她惊讶地发现，最后一点已经变得无关紧要了。德·诺普瓦先生只说了一句话。她把她的理性主义精神不可战胜的希望寄托在为我规定的严格的新鲜空气和早起时间的过程中，现在她对我违反规则的行为表示遗憾，这是灾难性的，并且语气绝望我向父亲抗议道：“你真是太容易被引导了！”父亲愤怒地回答道：“什么！所以现在是你不该放他走的。这实在是太过分了，毕竟你每天都告诉我们这对他有好处。”

M. de Norpois had also brought about a change in my father’s plans in a matter of far greater importance to myself. My father had always meant me to become a diplomat, and I could not endure the thought that, even if I did have to stay for some years, first, at the Ministry, I should run the risk of being sent, later on, as Ambassador, to capitals in which no Gilberte dwelt. I should have preferred to return to the literary career that I had planned for myself, and had been abandoned, years before, in my wanderings along the Guermantes way. But my father had steadily opposed my devoting myself to literature, which he regarded as vastly inferior to diplomacy, refusing even to dignify it with the title of career, until the day when M. de Norpois, who had little love for the more recent generations of diplomatic agents, assured him that it was quite possible, by writing, to attract as much attention, to receive as much consideration, to exercise as much influence, and at the same time to preserve more independence than in the Embassies.
德·诺普瓦先生还改变了我父亲的计划，这对我来说更为重要。我父亲一直想让我成为一名外交官，我无法忍受这样的想法：即使我必须先在外交部待几年，我也应该冒着被派往外交官的风险。大使，前往没有希尔贝特居住的首都。我本来应该更愿意回到我为自己计划的文学生涯，但几年前，我在盖尔芒特之路上徘徊时就被放弃了。但我的父亲一直反对我投身于文学，他认为文学远不如外交，甚至拒绝用职业头衔来荣耀文学，直到有一天，德·诺布瓦先生对近几代人几乎没有什么热爱。外交代表向他保证，通过写信，完全有可能吸引同样多的关注，得到同样多的考虑，发挥同样多的影响力，同时比大使馆保持更多的独立性。

‘Well, well, I should never have believed it. Old Norpois doesn’t at all disapprove of your idea of taking up writing,’ my father had reported. And as he had a certain amount of influence himself, he imagined that there was nothing that could not be ‘arranged,’ no problem for which a happy solution might not be found in the conversation of people who ‘counted.’ ‘I shall bring him back to dinner, one of these days, from the Commission. You must talk to him a little, and let him see what he thinks of you. Write something good that you can shew him; he is an intimate friend of the editor of the Deux-Mondes; he will get you in there; he will arrange it all, the cunning old fox; and, upon my soul, he seems to think that diplomacy, nowadays——!’
‘好吧，好吧，我绝对不应该相信这一点。老诺普瓦一点也不反对你开始写作的想法，”我父亲报告道。由于他自己也有一定的影响力，他想象没有什么是不能“安排”的，没有什么问题在“重要”的人的谈话中可能找不到一个愉快的解决方案。有一天，他从委员会回来吃晚饭。你必须和他谈谈，让他看看他对你的看法。写一些好东西给他看；他是《Deux-Mondes》编辑的密友。他会把你带进去；他会安排这一切，狡猾的老狐狸；而且，在我心里，他似乎认为现在的外交——！”

My happiness in the prospect of not being separated from Gilberte made me desirous, but not capable, of writing something good which could be shewn to M. de Norpois. After a few laboured pages, weariness made the pen drop from my fingers; I cried with anger at the thought that I should never have any talent, that I was not ‘gifted,’ that I could not even take advantage of the chance that M. de Norpois’s coming visit was to offer me of spending the rest of my life in Paris. The recollection that I was to be taken to hear Berma alone distracted me from my grief. But just as I did not wish to see any storms except on those coasts where they raged with most violence, so I should not have cared to hear the great actress except in one of those classic parts in which Swann had told me that she touched the sublime. For when it is in the hope of making a priceless discovery that we desire to receive certain impressions from nature or from works of art, we have certain scruples about allowing our soul to gather, instead of these, other, inferior, impressions, which are liable to make us form a false estimate of the value of Beauty. Berma in Andromaque, in Les Caprices de Marianne, in Phèdre, was one of those famous spectacles which my imagination had so long desired. I should enjoy the same rapture as on the day when in a gondola I glided to the foot of the Titian of the Frari or the Carpaccios of San Giorgio dei Schiavoni, were I ever to hear Berma repeat the lines beginning,
不与希尔贝特分离的幸福感使我渴望但没有能力写一些好东西给德·诺布瓦先生看。费力地写了几页后，疲倦使笔从我的手指上掉了下来。一想到我永远不应该有任何才能，我没有“天赋”，我什至无法利用德·诺普瓦先生即将到来的访问为我提供度过余生的机会，我就愤怒地哭泣。巴黎的生活。一想到我要被带去单独听贝尔玛的演讲，我就从悲伤中转移了注意力。但正如我不希望看到任何风暴，除了在那些肆虐最暴力的海岸之外，我也不应该在意听到这位伟大的女演员的声音，除非是斯旺告诉我她触摸了那些经典的部分。升华。因为，当我们希望获得无价的发现，希望从自然或艺术作品中获得某些印象时，我们就会有一定的顾虑，让我们的灵魂聚集，而不是这些，其他的，低劣的印象，这些印象是容易使我们对美的价值做出错误的估计。 《安德洛马克》中的贝尔玛、《玛丽安随想曲》中的《贝尔玛》、《费德尔》中的贝尔玛，都是我的想象力长久以来渴望看到的著名奇观之一。如果我听到贝尔玛重复开头的诗句，我就会像那天乘坐贡多拉滑行到弗拉里的提香山脚或圣乔治德伊斯基亚沃尼的生牛肉片一样欣喜若狂，

“On dit qu’un prompt départ vous éloigne de nous, Seigneur,——‘
“当您立即离开时，领主，——”

I was familiar with them from the simple reproduction in black and white which was given of them upon the printed page; but my heart beat furiously at the thought—as of the realisation of a long-planned voyage—that I should at length behold them, bathed and brought to life in the atmosphere and sunshine of the voice of gold. A Carpaccio in Venice, Berma in Phèdre, masterpieces of pictorial or dramatic art which the glamour, the dignity attaching to them made so living to me, that is to say so indivisible, that if I had been taken to see Carpaccios in one of the galleries of the Louvre, or Berma in some piece of which I had never heard, I should not have experienced the same delicious amazement at finding myself at length, with wide-open eyes, before the unique and inconceivable object of so many thousand dreams. Then, while I waited, expecting to derive from Berma’s playing the revelation of certain aspects of nobility and tragic grief, it would seem to me that whatever greatness, whatever truth there might be in her playing must be enhanced if the actress imposed it upon a work of real value, instead of what would, after all, be but embroidering a pattern of truth and beauty upon a commonplace and vulgar web.
我从印刷页上简单的黑白复制品中熟悉了它们。但一想到——就像实现了一次计划已久的航行——我终于能看到它们，在金声的气氛和阳光下沐浴并复活，我的心就猛烈地跳动。威尼斯的《生牛肉片》、费德雷的《贝尔玛》，都是绘画或戏剧艺术的杰作，它们所具有的魅力和尊严使我如此生动，也就是说，它们是不可分割的，如果我被带去看其中一幅画中的生牛肉片，卢浮宫的画廊，或者贝尔马的一些我从未听说过的作品，当我睁大眼睛，在成千上万个梦想的独特而不可思议的物体面前发现自己时，我不应该体验到同样美妙的惊奇。然后，当我等待时，期望从贝尔玛的表演中得到对高贵和悲惨悲伤的某些方面的启示，在我看来，如果女演员将其强加给一个演员，那么无论她的表演中可能有什么伟大，无论有什么真理，都必须得到增强。具有真正价值的作品，而不是毕竟只是在平凡而粗俗的网上绣出真理和美丽的图案。

Finally, if I went to hear Berma in a new piece, it would not be easy for me to judge of her art, of her diction, since I should not be able to differentiate between a text which was not already familiar and what she added to it by her intonations and gestures, an addition which would seem to me to be embodied in the play itself; whereas the old plays, the classics which I knew by heart, presented themselves to me as vast and empty walls, reserved and made ready for my inspection, on which I should be able to appreciate without restriction the devices by which Berma would cover them, as with frescoes, with the perpetually fresh treasures of her inspiration. Unfortunately, for some years now, since she had retired from the great theatres, to make the fortune of one on the boulevards where she was the ‘star,’ she had ceased to appear in classic parts; and in vain did I scan the hoardings; they never advertised any but the newest pieces, written specially for her by authors in fashion at the moment. When, one morning, as I stood searching the column of announcements to find the afternoon performances for the week of the New Year holidays, I saw there for the first time—at the foot of the bill, after some probably insignificant curtain-raiser, whose title was opaque to me because it had latent in it all the details of an action of which I was ignorant—two acts of Phèdre with Mme. Berma, and, on the following afternoons, Le Demi-Monde, Les Caprices de Marianne, names which, like that of Phèdre, were for me transparent, filled with light only, so familiar were those works to me, illuminated to their very depths by the revealing smile of art. They seemed to me to invest with a fresh nobility Mme. Berma herself when I read in the newspapers, after the programme of these performances, that it was she who had decided to shew herself once more to the public in some of her early creations. She was conscious, then, that certain stage-parts have an interest which survives the novelty of their first production or the success of a revival; she regarded them, when interpreted by herself, as museum pieces which it might be instructive to set before the eyes of the generation which had admired her in them long ago, or of that which had never yet seen her in them. In thus advertising, in the middle of a column of plays intended only to while away an evening, this Phèdre, a title no longer than any of the rest, nor set in different type, she added something indescribable, as though a hostess, introducing you, before you all go in to dinner, to her other guests, were to mention, casually, amid the string of names which are the names of guests and nothing more, and without any change of tone:—‘M. Anatole France.’
最后，如果我去听贝尔玛的一首新作品，我就很难判断她的艺术和她的措辞，因为我不应该能够区分不熟悉的文本和她添加的内容她的语调和手势对此进行了补充，在我看来，这种补充体现在戏剧本身中。而那些我熟记于心的老戏剧、那些经典作品，在我面前就像是巨大而空旷的墙壁，保留着并准备好供我检查，在上面我应该能够不受限制地欣赏贝尔玛用来覆盖它们的装置，就像壁画一样，她的灵感永远是新鲜的宝藏。不幸的是，自从她从大剧院退休，为了在她作为“明星”的林荫大道上发财以来，几年来，她就不再出现在经典角色中；她不再出演经典角色。我徒劳地浏览了广告牌；除了目前时尚界的作家专门为她创作的最新作品外，他们从不做任何广告。一天早上，当我站在公告栏中寻找新年假期那一周的下午演出时，我第一次看到那里——在账单的最后，在一些可能无关紧要的揭幕仪式之后，它的标题对我来说是不透明的，因为它隐藏了我不知道的行动的所有细节——菲德尔和夫人的两件事。贝尔马，以及接下来的下午，《半世界》、《玛丽安随想曲》，这些名字就像菲德尔的名字一样，对我来说是透明的，只充满了光，那些作品对我来说是那么熟悉，照亮了它们的深处艺术的微笑。在我看来，他们似乎是在投资一位新的贵族女士。 当我在报纸上看到贝尔玛本人时，在这些表演节目结束后，她决定在她的一些早期创作中再次向公众展示自己。那么，她意识到，某些舞台角色的兴趣在其首次制作的新颖性或复兴的成功后仍然存在。当她自己解释时，她认为它们是博物馆的藏品，将它们放在很久以前欣赏过她的那一代人的眼前，或者从未见过她的那一代人面前，可能会很有启发性。在这样的广告中，在一排只想消磨夜晚的戏剧中间，这个菲德尔，一个不比其他任何一个更长的标题，也不以不同的类型设置，她添加了一些难以形容的东西，就像一个女主人，介绍在你们大家去吃晚饭之前，你们要在一串名字中随意地向她的其他客人提及，这些名字只是客人的名字，仅此而已，而且语气没有任何变化：——M。阿纳托尔·法国.’

The doctor who was attending me—the same who had forbidden me to travel—advised my parents not to let me go to the theatre; I should only be ill again afterwards, perhaps for weeks, and should in the long run derive more pain than pleasure from the experience. The fear of this might have availed to stop me, if what I had anticipated from such a spectacle had been only a pleasure for which a subsequent pain could so compensate as to cancel it. But what I demanded from this performance—just as from the visit to Balbec, the visit to Venice for which I had so intensely longed—was something quite different from pleasure; a series of verities pertaining to a world more real than that in which I lived, which, once acquired, could never be taken from me again by any of the trivial incidents—even though it were the cause of bodily suffering—of my otiose existence. At best, the pleasure which I was to feel during the performance appeared to me as the perhaps inevitable form of the perception of these truths; and I hoped only that the illness which had been forecast for me would not begin until the play was finished, so that my pleasure should not be in any way compromised or spoiled. I implored my parents, who, after the doctor’s visit, were no longer inclined to let me go to Phèdre. I repeated, all day long, to myself, the speech beginning,
为我看病的医生——就是禁止我旅行的医生——建议我的父母不要让我去剧院；我只会在事后再次生病，也许持续几周，从长远来看，从这次经历中得到的痛苦应该多于快乐。如果我从这样的奇观中所期待的只是一种快乐，而随后的痛苦可以补偿甚至取消它，那么对此的恐惧可能会阻止我。但我对这次表演的要求——就像我强烈渴望的巴尔贝克之行、威尼斯之行一样——与快乐完全不同；它是一种快乐。一系列关于一个比我所生活的世界更真实的世界的真理，这些真理一旦获得，就永远不会再被任何琐碎的事件从我身边夺走——即使它是我无聊存在中身体痛苦的原因。在我看来，在表演过程中所感受到的快乐充其量只是对这些真理的​​感知的必然形式。我只希望在演出结束之前，我所预计的疾病不会出现，这样我的快乐就不会受到任何损害或破坏。我恳求我的父母，在医生拜访之后，他们不再愿意让我去菲德尔那里。我整天对自己重复着演讲的开头，

“On dit qu’un prompt départ vous éloigne de nous,——‘
“在dit qu'un迅速离开你的éloigne de nous时，——”

seeking out every intonation that could be put into it, so as to be able better to measure my surprise at the way which Berma would have found of uttering the lines. Concealed, like the Holy of Holies, beneath the veil that screened her from my gaze, behind which I invested her, every moment, with a fresh aspect, according to which of the words of Bergotte—in the pamphlet that Gilberte had found for me—was passing through my mind; ‘plastic nobility,’ ‘Christian austerity’ or ‘Jansenist pallor,’ ‘Princess of Troezen and of Cleves’ or ‘Mycenean drama,’ ‘Delphic symbol,’ ‘Solar myth”; that divine Beauty, whom Berma’s acting was to reveal to me, night and day, upon an altar perpetually illumined, sat enthroned hi the sanctuary of my mind, my mind for which not itself but my stern, my fickle parents were to decide whether or not it was to enshrine, and for all time, the perfections of the Deity unveiled, in the same spot where was now her invisible form. And with my eyes fixed upon that inconceivable image, I strove from morning to night to overcome the barriers which my family were putting in my way. But when those had at last fallen, when my mother—albeit this matinée was actually to coincide with the meeting of the Commission from which my father had promised to bring M. de Norpois home to dinner—had said to me, ‘Very well, we don’t wish you to be unhappy;—if you think that you will enjoy it so very much, you must go; that’s all;’ when this day of theatre-going, hitherto forbidden and unattainable, depended now only upon myself, then for the first time, being no longer troubled by the wish that it might cease to be impossible, I asked myself if it were desirable, if there were not other reasons than my parents’ prohibition which should make me abandon my design. In the first place, whereas I had been detesting them for their cruelty, their consent made them now so dear to me that the thought of causing them pain stabbed me also with a pain through which the purpose of life shewed itself as the pursuit not of truth but of loving-kindness, and life itself seemed good or evil only as my parents were happy or sad. ‘I would rather not go, if it hurts you,’ I told my mother, who, on the contrary, strove hard to expel from my mind any lurking fear that she might regret my going, since that, she said, would spoil the pleasure that I should otherwise derive from Phèdre, and it was the thought of my pleasure that had induced my father and her to reverse their earlier decision. But then this sort of obligation to find a pleasure in the performance seemed to me very burdensome. Besides, if I returned home ill, should I be well again in time to be able to go to the Champs-Elysées as soon as the holidays were over and Gilberte returned? Against all these arguments I set, so as to decide which course I should take, the idea, invisible there behind its veil, of the perfections of Berma. I cast into one pan of the scales ‘Making Mamma unhappy,’ ‘risking not being able to go on the Champs-Elysées,’ and the other, ‘Jansenist pallor,’ ‘Solar myth,’ until the words themselves grew dark and clouded in my mind’s vision, ceased to say anything to me, lost all their force; and gradually my hesitations became so painful that if I had now decided upon the theatre it would have been only that I might bring them to an end, and be delivered from them once and for all. It would have been to fix a term to my sufferings, and no longer in the expectation of an intellectual benediction, yielding to the attractions of perfection, that I would let myself be taken, not now to the Wise Goddess, but to the stern, implacable Divinity, featureless and unnamed, who had been secretly substituted for her behind the veil. But suddenly everything was altered. My desire to go and hear Berma received a fresh stimulus which enabled me to await the coming of the matinée with impatience and with joy; having gone to take up, in front of the column on which the playbills were, my daily station, as excruciating, of late, as that of a stylite saint, I had seen there, still moist and wrinkled, the complete bill of Phèdre, which had just been pasted up for the first time (and on which, I must confess, the rest of the cast furnished no additional attraction which could help me to decide). But it gave to one of the points between which my indecision wavered a form at once more concrete and—inasmuch as the bill was dated not from the day on which I read it but from that on which the performance would take place, and from the very hour at which the curtain would rise—almost imminent, well on the way, already, to its realisation, so that I jumped for joy before the column at the thought that on that day, and at that hour precisely, I should be sitting there in my place, ready to hear the voice of Berma; and for fear lest my parents might not now be in time to secure two good seats for my grandmother and myself, I raced back to the house, whipped on by the magic words which had now taken the place, in my mind, of ‘Jansenist pallor’ and ‘Solar myth”;—‘Ladies will not be admitted to the stalls in hats. The doors will be closed at two o’clock.’
寻找每一种可以放入其中的语调，以便能够更好地衡量我对贝尔玛说出台词的方式的惊讶。就像至圣所一样，隐藏在遮蔽我目光的面纱之下，在这面纱之后，我每时每刻都给她注入了新鲜的面貌，根据贝戈特的话——在吉尔贝特为我找到的小册子中——在我的脑海中掠过； “塑料贵族”、“基督教的朴素”或“詹森主义的苍白”、“特罗岑和克利夫斯的公主”或“迈锡尼戏剧”、“德尔斐符号”、“太阳神话”；贝尔玛的表演日日夜夜地在永远照亮的祭坛上向我展示了神圣的美，她坐在我心灵的圣殿中，不是我的心灵本身，而是我严厉、善变的父母来决定是否或并不是为了将神的完美形象永远地供奉在她现在看不见的地方。我的眼睛注视着那个不可思议的画面，从早到晚，我努力克服家人给我设置的障碍。但当这些最终落下时，当我的母亲——尽管这场日场实际上恰逢委员会会议，我父亲在会议上答应带德·诺普瓦先生回家吃晚饭——对我说：“很好，我们不希望你不快乐；——如果你认为你会非常喜欢它，你就必须走；就这样；”当这一天的戏剧表演，迄今为止被禁止和遥不可及的，现在只取决于我自己，然后第一次，不再为它可能不再是不可能的愿望所困扰，我问自己，这是否是如果除了我父母的禁止之外没有其他原因应该让我放弃我的设计的话，这是可取的。 首先，虽然我一直憎恶他们的残忍，但他们的同意让我现在对他们如此珍视，以至于一想到给他们带来痛苦，我也感到痛苦，通过这种痛苦，生命的目的表明自己不是为了追求真理而非慈爱，生活本身的好坏仅取决于我父母的快乐或悲伤。 “我宁愿不去，如果这会伤害你，”我告诉我的母亲，相反，她努力从我的脑海中驱逐任何潜在的恐惧，担心她可能会后悔我去，因为她说，因为那样会破坏我的生活。本来我应该从费德尔那里得到快乐，正是想到我的快乐才促使我父亲和她改变了他们之前的决定。但这种从表演中寻找乐趣的义务对我来说似乎是非常沉重的负担。此外，如果我生病回家，我是否应该及时康复，以便在假期结束、希尔贝特回来后就可以去香榭丽舍大街？我反对所有这些论点，以便决定我应该采取哪一条路线，在其面纱后面看不见的想法是贝尔马的完美。我把“让妈妈不高兴”、“冒着无法去香榭丽舍大街的风险”和“詹森主义苍白”、“太阳神话”等内容放入一个秤盘中，直到这些词本身变得黑暗和阴云密布。在我的脑海里，不再对我说任何话，失去了所有的力量；渐渐地，我的犹豫变得如此痛苦，以至于如果我现在决定去剧院，那只能是我可以结束它们，并一劳永逸地摆脱它们。 这本来是为了给我的痛苦定个期限，不再期待理智上的祝福，屈服于完美的吸引力，我会让自己被带到，不是现在到智慧的女神那里，而是到严厉的那里，冷酷无情的神性，无特色且无名，在面纱后面秘密地取代了她。但突然一切都改变了。我想去听贝尔玛的愿望得到了新的刺激，这使我能够焦急而又喜悦地等待日场的到来；我去拿了节目单的柱子前的日常工作，近来就像一位时尚圣人的工作一样令人难以忍受，我在那里看到了费德尔的完整账单，仍然潮湿且皱巴巴的，这是第一次被贴出来（我必须承认，其他演员没有提供任何额外的吸引力来帮助我做出决定）。但它给我犹豫不决的一点提供了一种更加具体的形式，因为该法案的日期不是从我读到它的那一天开始，而是从表演将要举行的那一天开始，并且从就在帷幕即将升起的时刻——几乎即将到来，已经在实现它的路上了，因此，一想到那天，恰好在那个时刻，我应该坐在柱子前，我高兴地跳了起来在我的位置上，准备好聆听贝尔玛的声音；由于担心我的父母现在可能无法及时为我和我的祖母找到两个好座位，我飞快地跑回房子，被那些现在在我脑海中取代“詹森主义”的神奇词语所鞭策。苍白”和“太阳神话”；——“戴帽子的女士不得进入摊位。”门将在两点关闭。’

Alas! that first matinée was to prove a bitter disappointment. My father offered to drop my grandmother and me at the theatre, on his way to the Commission. Before leaving the house he said to my mother: ‘See that you have a good dinner for us to-night; you remember, I’m bringing de Norpois back with me.’ My mother had not forgotten. And all that day, and overnight, Françoise, rejoicing in the opportunity to devote herself to that art of the kitchen,—of which she was indeed a past-master, stimulated, moreover, by the prospect of having a new guest to feed, the consciousness that she would have to compose, by methods known to her alone, a dish of beef in jelly,—had been living in the effervescence of creation; since she attached the utmost importance to the intrinsic quality of the materials which were to enter into the fabric of her work, she had gone herself to the Halles to procure the best cuts of rump-steak, shin of beef, calves’-feet, as Michelangelo passed eight months in the mountains of Carrara choosing the most perfect blocks of marble for the monument of Julius II—Françoise expended on these comings and goings so much ardour that Mamma, at the sight of her flaming cheeks, was alarmed lest our old servant should make herself ill with overwork, like the sculptor of the Tombs of the Medici in the quarries of Pietrasanta. And overnight Françoise had sent to be cooked in the baker’s oven, shielded with breadcrumbs, like a block of pink marble packed in sawdust, what she called a ‘Nev’-York ham.’ Believing the language to be less rich than it actually was in words, and her own ears less trustworthy, the first time that she heard anyone mention York ham she had thought, no doubt,—feeling it to be hardly conceivable that the dictionary could be so prodigal as to include at once a ‘York’ and a ‘New York’—that she had misheard what was said, and that the ham was really called by the name already familiar to her. And so, ever since, the word York was preceded in her ears, or before her eyes when she read it in an advertisement, by the affix ‘New’ which she pronounced ‘Nev’.’ And it was with the most perfect faith that she would say to her kitchen-maid: ‘Go and fetch me a ham from Olida’s. Madame told me especially to get a Nev’-York.’ On that particular day, if Françoise was consumed by the burning certainty of creative genius, my lot was the cruel anxiety of the seeker after truth. No doubt, so long as I had not yet heard Berma speak, I still felt some pleasure. I felt it in the little square that lay in front of the theatre, in which, in two hours’ time, the bare boughs of the chestnut trees would gleam with a metallic lustre as the lighted gas-lamps shewed up every detail of their structure; before the attendants in the box-office, the selection of whom, their promotion, all their destiny depended upon the great artist—for she alone held power in the theatre, where ephemeral managers followed one after the other in an obscure succession—who took our tickets without even glancing at us, so preoccupied were they with their anxiety lest any of Mme. Berma’s instructions had not been duly transmitted to the new members of the staff, lest it was not clearly, everywhere, understood that the hired applause must never sound for her, that the windows must all be kept open so long as she was not on the stage, and every door closed tight, the moment that she appeared; that a bowl of hot water must be concealed somewhere close to her, to make the dust settle: and, for that matter, at any moment now her carriage, drawn by a pair of horses with flowing manes, would be stopping outside the theatre, she would alight from it muffled in furs, and, crossly acknowledging everyone’s salute, would send one of her attendants to find out whether a stage box had been kept for her friends, what the temperature was ‘in front,’ who were in the other boxes, if the programme sellers were looking smart; theatre and public being to her no more than a second, an outermost cloak which she would put on, and the medium, the more or less ‘good’ conductor through which her talent would have to pass. I was happy, too, in the theatre itself; since I had made the discovery that—in contradiction of the picture so long entertained by my childish imagination—there was but one stage for everybody, I had supposed that I should be prevented from seeing it properly by the presence of the other spectators, as one is when in the thick of a crowd; now I registered the fact that, on the contrary, thanks to an arrangement which is, so to speak, symbolical of all spectatorship, everyone feels himself to be the centre of the theatre; which explained to me why, when Françoise had been sent once to see some melodrama from the top gallery, she had assured us on her return that her seat had been the best in the house, and that instead of finding herself too far from the stage she had been positively frightened by the mysterious and living proximity of the curtain. My pleasure increased further when I began to distinguish behind the said lowered curtain such confused rappings as one hears through the shell of an egg before the chicken emerges, sounds which speedily grew louder and suddenly, from that world which, impenetrable by our eyes, yet scrutinised us with its own, addressed themselves, and to us indubitably, in the imperious form of three consecutive hammer-blows as moving as any signals from the planet Mars. And—once this curtain had risen,—when on the stage a writing-table and a fireplace, in no way out of the ordinary, had indicated that the persons who were about to enter would be, not actors come to recite, as I had seen them once and heard them at an evening party, but real people, just living their lives at home, on whom I was thus able to spy without their seeing me—my pleasure still endured; it was broken by a momentary uneasiness; just as I was straining my ears in readiness before the piece began, two men entered the theatre from the side of the stage, who must have been very angry with each other, for they were talking so loud that in the auditorium, where there were at least a thousand people, we could hear every word, whereas in quite a small café one is obliged to call the waiter and ask what it is that two men, who appear to be quarrelling, are saying; but at that moment, while I sat astonished to find that the audience was listening to them without protest, drowned as it was in a universal silence upon which broke, presently, a laugh here and there, I understood that these insolent fellows were the actors and that the short piece known as the ‘curtain-raiser’ had now begun. It was followed by an interval so long that the audience, who had returned to their places, grew impatient and began to stamp their feet. I was terrified at this; for just as in the report of a criminal trial, when I read that some noble-minded person was coming, against his own interests, to testify on behalf of an innocent prisoner, I was always afraid that they would not be nice enough to him, would not shew enough gratitude, would not recompense him lavishly, and that he, in disgust, would then range himself on the side of injustice; so now attributing to genius, in this respect, the same qualities as to virtue, I was afraid lest Berma, annoyed by the bad behaviour of so ill-bred an audience—in which, on the other hand, I should have liked her to recognise, with satisfaction, a few celebrities to whose judgment she would be bound to attach importance—should express her discontent and disdain by acting badly. And I gazed appealingly round me at these stamping brutes who were about to shatter, in their insensate rage, the rare and fragile impression which I had come to seek. The last moments of my pleasure were during the opening scenes of Phèdre. The heroine herself does not appear in these first scenes of the second act; and yet, as soon as the curtain rose, and another curtain, of red velvet this time, was parted in the middle (a curtain which was used to halve the depth of the stage in all the plays in which the ‘star’ appeared), an actress entered from the back who had the face and voice which, I had been told, were those of Berma. The cast must therefore have been changed; all the trouble that I had taken in studying the part of the wife of Theseus was wasted. But a second actress now responded to the first. I must, then, have been mistaken in supposing that the first was Berma, for the second even more closely resembled her, and, more than the other, had her diction. Both of them, moreover, enriched their parts with noble gestures—which I could vividly distinguish, and could appreciate in their relation to the text, while they raised and let fall the lovely folds of their tunics—and also with skilful changes of tone, now passionate, now ironical, which made me realise the significance of lines that I had read to myself at home without paying sufficient attention to what they really meant. But all of a sudden, in the cleft of the red curtain that veiled her sanctuary, as in a frame, appeared a woman, and simultaneously with the fear that seized me, far more vexing than Berma’s fear could be, lest someone should upset her by opening a window, or drown one of her lines by rustling a programme, or annoy her by applauding the others and by not applauding her enough;—in my own fashion, still more absolute than Berma’s, of considering from that moment theatre, audience, play and my own body only as an acoustic medium of no importance, save in the degree to which it was favourable to the inflexions of that voice,—I realised that the two actresses whom I had been for some minutes admiring bore not the least resemblance to her whom I had come to hear. But at the same time all my pleasure had ceased; in vain might I strain towards Berma’s eyes, ears, mind, so as not to let one morsel escape me of the reasons which she would furnish for my admiring her, I did not succeed in gathering a single one. I could not even, as I could with her companions, distinguish in her diction and in her playing intelligent intonations, beautiful gestures. I listened to her as though I were reading Phèdre, or as though Phaedra herself had at that moment uttered the words that I was hearing, without its appearing that Berma’s talent had added anything at all to them. I could have wished, so as to be able to explore them fully, so as to attempt to discover what it was in them that was beautiful, to arrest, to immobilise for a time before my senses every intonation of the artist’s voice, every expression of her features; at least I did attempt, by dint of my mental agility in having, before a line came, my attention ready and tuned to catch it, not to waste upon preparations any morsel of the precious time that each word, each gesture occupied, and, thanks to the intensity of my observation, to manage to penetrate as far into them as if I had had whole hours to spend upon them, by myself. But how short their duration was! Scarcely had a sound been received by my ear than it was displaced there by another. In one scene, where Berma stands motionless for a moment, her arm raised to the level of a face bathed, by some piece of stagecraft, in a greenish light, before a back-cloth painted to represent the sea, the whole house broke out in applause; but already the actress had moved, and the picture that I should have liked to study existed no longer. I told my grandmother that I could not see very well; she handed me her glasses. Only, when one believes in the reality of a thing, making it visible by artificial means is not quite the same as feeling that it is close at hand. I thought now that it was no longer Berma at whom I was looking, but her image in a magnifying glass. I put the glasses down, but then possibly the image that my eye received of her, diminished by distance, was no more exact; which of the two Bermas was the real? As for her speech to Hippolyte, I had counted enormously upon that, since, to judge by the ingenious significance which her companions were disclosing to me at every moment in less beautiful parts, she would certainly render it with intonations more surprising than any which, when reading the play at home, I had contrived to imagine; but she did not attain to the heights which Œnone or Aricie would naturally have reached, she planed down into a uniform flow of melody the whole of a passage in which there were mingled together contradictions so striking that the least intelligent of tragic actresses, even the pupils of an academy, could not have missed their effect; besides which, she ran through the speech so rapidly that it was only when she had come to the last line that my mind became aware of the deliberate monotony which she had imposed on it throughout.
唉!第一场日场演出令人非常失望。我父亲提出在去委员会的路上送我和祖母去剧院。离开家之前，他对我母亲说：‘今晚请你为我们准备一顿丰盛的晚餐；你记得，我要把德·诺普瓦带回来。”我母亲没有忘记。那天晚上，弗朗索瓦丝很高兴有机会投身于厨房艺术——她确实是一位过去的大师，此外，由于有一位新客人需要吃饭，她的前景也受到了刺激，她必须用只有她自己知道的方法来制作一盘果冻牛肉，这一意识一直生活在创作的热情之中；因为她极其重视制作作品所用材料的内在质量，所以她亲自前往哈勒采购最好的牛臀肉、牛小腿肉、牛蹄肉，当米开朗基罗在卡拉拉山区度过了八个月的时光，为朱利叶斯二世的纪念碑选择最完美的大理石块时，弗朗索瓦丝在这些来来往往中投入了如此多的热情，以至于妈妈看到她火红的脸颊时感到震惊，以免我们的老仆人应该因过度劳累而生病，就像彼得拉桑塔采石场美第奇家族墓穴的雕塑家一样。一夜之间，弗朗索瓦丝被送进面包师的烤箱里烘烤，上面覆盖着面包屑，就像一块装在锯末中的粉红色大理石，她称之为“内夫”约克火腿。她第一次听到有人提到约克火腿时，她相信语言没有实际的文字那么丰富，她自己的耳朵也不那么可靠，毫无疑问，她想——感觉很难想象字典可以如此挥霍，以至于同时包括“约克”和“纽约”——她听错了所说的话，而火腿实际上是用她已经熟悉的名字来称呼的。因此，从那时起，约克这个词出现在她的耳中，或者当她在广告中读到它时，在她的眼前加上词缀“New”，她将其发音为“Nev”。她会对厨房女仆说：“去奥利达店给我拿一根火腿吧。”夫人特别吩咐我去内约克。”在那一天，如果说弗朗索瓦丝被创造性天才的燃烧的确定性所吞噬，那么我的命运就是追求真理的残酷焦虑。毫无疑问，只要我还没有听到贝尔玛说话，我仍然感到有些高兴。我在剧院前面的小广场上感受到了这一点，两个小时后，那里的栗树光秃秃的树枝将闪烁着金属光泽，点燃的煤气灯显示出其结构的每一个细节。 ;在票房的服务员面前，他们的选择，他们的晋升，他们所有的命运都取决于这位伟大的艺术家——因为她独自在剧院里掌握着权力，在那里，短暂的经理人以一种模糊的顺序一个接一个地跟随——谁把他们连看都不看我们一眼就拿走了我们的票，全神贯注地担心着夫人的任何人。 贝尔玛的指示还没有及时传达给新的工作人员，以免各地的人都不清楚，雇来的掌声绝对不能为她响起，只要她不在办公室，窗户就必须保持打开状态。舞台上，当她出现的那一刻，所有的门都紧闭了；必须在她附近的某个地方藏一碗热水，以使尘埃落定：就此而言，她的马车随时都会停在剧院外面，由一对鬃毛飘逸的马牵引，她会裹着毛皮从包厢里走下来，生气地迎接每个人的敬礼，然后派一名侍从去查明是否为她的朋友们保留了一个舞台包厢，“前面”的温度是多少，谁在另一个包厢里。盒子，如果程序卖家看起来很聪明；剧院和公众对她来说不过是一秒钟，是她穿上的一件最外层的斗篷，而媒介，或多或少是“好”的指挥家，她的才华必须通过它来传递。 我在剧院里也很开心。因为我发现——与我幼稚的想象力长期以来所呈现的画面相矛盾——每个人都只有一个舞台，我原以为其他观众的在场会妨碍我正确地看到它，因为一种是在人群最稠密的时候；现在我注意到了这样一个事实：相反，由于一种可以说是所有观众的象征性的安排，每个人都觉得自己是剧院的中心。这向我解释了为什么当弗朗索瓦丝被派去看顶层画廊的一些情节剧时，她回来后向我们保证她的座位是房子里最好的，而且并没有发现自己离舞台太远她确实被那神秘而生动的窗帘吓到了。当我开始在所说的垂下的窗帘后面辨别出这种混乱的敲击声时，我的快乐进一步增加了，就像在鸡出现之前透过鸡蛋壳听到的声音一样，声音迅速变得越来越响亮，来自那个我们的眼睛无法穿透的世界，但它以它自己的方式审视我们，向自己说话，毫无疑问地向我们说话，以专横的连续三击锤击的形式，就像来自火星的任何信号一样动人。 而且——一旦幕布升起，——当舞台上有一张写字台和一个壁炉时，这并没有什么不同寻常，这表明即将进入的人将不是演员来朗诵，正如我所说的那样。我曾经在一次晚会上见过他们，也听到过他们的声音，但他们都是真实的人，只是过着自己的生活，因此我能够在他们看不见我的情况下监视他们——我的快乐仍然存在；它被一时的不安所打破。就在我在演出开始前竖起耳朵准备的时候，两个男人从舞台一侧走进了剧院，他们一定很生气，因为他们说话的声音太大了，观众席里有很多人。至少有一千人，我们可以听到每一个字，而在一家相当小的咖啡馆里，人们不得不打电话给服务员，询问两个似乎正在争吵的男人在说什么；但就在那一刻，当我惊讶地发现观众毫无异议地听着他们的表演，仿佛沉浸在一片寂静之中，不一会儿，这里那里爆发出一阵笑声，我明白了，这些无礼的家伙就是演员。被称为“帷幕拉开”的短曲现在已经开始了。接下来是一段漫长的中场休息，让回到座位的观众开始不耐烦，开始跺脚。 我对此感到害怕；因为就像在刑事审判的报告中一样，当我读到某个道德高尚的人违背自己的利益，为一名无辜的囚犯出庭作证时，我总是担心他们对他不够好不会表现出足够的感激之情，不会慷慨地回报他，而他会在厌恶中站在不公正的一边；因此，现在在这方面将天才与美德具有相同的品质，我担心贝尔玛会对如此没有教养的观众的不良行为感到恼火——另一方面，我本来希望她满意地认识到一些她必须重视其判断的名人——应该通过恶劣的行为来表达她的不满和蔑视。我用恳求的目光注视着周围这些跺脚的畜生，他们在疯狂的愤怒中即将粉碎我来此寻找的稀有而脆弱的印象。我最后的快乐时刻是在《菲德尔》的开场场景中。女主角本人并没有出现在第二幕的前几个场景中。然而，幕布一升起，另一幕幕，这次是红色天鹅绒的，从中间分开（在所有“明星”出现的戏剧中，幕布被用来将舞台的深度减半）一位女演员从后面进来，据说她的脸和声音都是贝尔马的。因此，演员阵容肯定已经改变了；我在研究忒修斯妻子这个角色时所费的所有功夫都白费了。但现在第二位女演员对第一位女演员做出了回应。那么，我一定是错误地认为第一个是贝尔玛，因为第二个更接近她，而且比另一个更具有她的措辞。 此外，他们俩都以高贵的姿势丰富了自己的部分——当他们抬起或放下束腰外衣可爱的褶皱时，我可以清楚地区分这些姿势，并可以欣赏他们与文本的关系——而且还巧妙地改变了语气，时而热情，时而讽刺，这让我意识到我在家里自言自语的诗句的重要性，而没有充分注意它们的真正含义。但突然间，在遮盖她的庇护所的红色窗帘的缝隙中，出现了一个女人，同时我感到恐惧，比贝尔玛的恐惧更令人烦恼，生怕有人让她心烦意乱。打开一扇窗户，或者通过沙沙作响的节目淹没她的一句台词，或者通过为其他人鼓掌而对她鼓掌不够而惹恼她；——以我自己的方式，比贝尔马的方式更绝对，从那一刻起考虑剧院，观众，戏剧和我自己的身体只是作为一种不重要的声学媒介，除了它对声音的变化有利的程度之外，——我意识到我已经欣赏了几分钟的两位女演员一点也不重要。和我来听的她很像。但与此同时，我所有的快乐都停止了；我竭尽全力去观察贝尔玛的眼睛、耳朵和思想，不让我漏掉她为我钦佩她而提供的任何理由，但我却没有成功地收集到任何理由。我什至无法像和她的同伴一样辨别她的措辞、她演奏的聪明的语调和美丽的手势。 我听她说话，就好像我在读《菲德拉》，或者就好像菲德拉本人在那一刻说出了我听到的那些话，但贝尔玛的才华却没有给这些话增添任何东西。我本可以希望能够充分地探索它们，试图发现它们的美丽之处，在我感觉到艺术家声音的每一个语调、每一种表情之前，将它们逮捕、静止一段时间。她的特征；至少我确实尝试过，凭借我的思维敏捷性，在台词出现之前，我的注意力已经准备好并调整好以捕捉它，而不是在准备工作上浪费每个词、每个手势所占用的宝贵时间，并且，由于我的观察力很强，我能够深入地了解它们，就好像我自己花了整整几个小时来研究它们一样。但他们的持续时间是多么短暂啊！我的耳朵刚听到一个声音，就被另一个声音取代了。在一个场景中，贝尔玛一动不动地站了一会儿，她的手臂举到了一张脸的高度，通过某种舞台艺术，在绿色的灯光下，在一块漆成代表大海的背布之前，整个房子爆发了掌声中；但女演员已经动了，我本来想研究的那张照片已经不复存在了。我告诉祖母我的视力不太好；她把眼镜递给我。只是，当一个人相信某件事的真实性时，通过人为的手段让它变得可见，与感觉它近在眼前并不完全一样。我想现在我看到的不再是贝尔玛，而是她在放大镜中的形象。 我放下眼镜，但我的眼睛所看到的她的图像可能因距离而缩小，不再准确；两个贝尔马斯中哪一个是真实的？至于她对伊波利特的讲话，我对此寄予了极大的希望，因为，根据她的同伴们每时每刻在不太美丽的部分中向我透露的巧妙意义来判断，她肯定会用比任何其他语言更令人惊讶的语调来表达它，在家看这部剧的时候，我曾刻意地想象过；但她并没有达到奥内或阿里西自然会达到的高度，她将整个段落规划成统一的旋律流，其中矛盾交织在一起，如此引人注目，以至于最不聪明的悲剧女演员，甚至是学院的学生不可能错过他们的影响；除此之外，她的演讲讲得如此之快，以至于直到她读到最后一行时，我的脑海里才意识到她故意强加给它的单调。

Then, at last, a sense of admiration did possess me, provoked by the frenzied applause of the audience. I mingled my own with theirs, endeavouring to prolong the general sound so that Berma, in her gratitude, should surpass herself, and I be certain of having heard her on one of her great days. A curious thing, by the way, was that the moment when this storm of public enthusiasm broke loose was, as I afterwards learned, that in which Berma reveals one of her richest treasures. It would appear that certain transcendent realities emit all around them a radiance to which the crowd is sensitive. So it is that when any great event occurs, when on a distant frontier an army is in jeopardy, or defeated, or victorious, the vague and conflicting reports which we receive, from which an educated man can derive little enlightenment, stimulate in the crowd an emotion by which that man is surprised, and in which, once expert criticism has informed him of the actual military situation, he recognises the popular perception of that ‘aura’ which surrounds momentous happenings, and which may be visible hundreds of miles away. One learns of a victory either after the war is over, or at once, from the hilarious joy of one’s hall porter. One discovers the touch of genius in Berma’s acting a week after one has heard her, in the criticism of some review, or else on the spot, from the thundering acclamation of the stalls. But this immediate recognition by the crowd was mingled with a hundred others, all quite erroneous; the applause came, most often, at wrong moments, apart from the fact that it was mechanically produced by the effect of the applause that had gone before, just as in a storm, once the sea is sufficiently disturbed, it will continue to swell, even after the wind has begun to subside. No matter; the more I applauded, the better, it seemed to me, did Berma act. ‘I say,’ came from a woman sitting near me, of no great social pretensions, ‘she fairly gives it you, she does; you’d think she’d do herself an injury, the way she runs about. I call that acting, don’t you?’ And happy to find these reasons for Berma’s superiority, though not without a suspicion that they no more accounted for it than would for that of the Gioconda or of Benvenuto’s Perseus a peasant’s gaping ‘That’s a good bit of work. It’s all gold, look! Fine, ain’t it?’, I greedily imbibed the strong wine of this popular enthusiasm. I felt, all the same, when the curtain had fallen fer the last time, disappointed that the pleasure for which I had so longed had been no greater, but at the same time I felt the need to prolong it, not to depart for ever, when I left the theatre, from this strange life of the stage which had, for a few hours, been my own, from which I should be tearing myself away, as though I were going into exile, when I returned to my; own home, had I not hoped there to learn a great deal more about Berma from her admirer, to whom I was indebted already for the permission to go to Phèdre, M. de Norpois. I was introduced to him before dinner by my father, who summoned me into his study for the purpose. As I entered, the Ambassador rose, held out his hand, bowed his tall figure and fixed his blue eyes attentively on my face. As the foreign visitors who used to be presented to him, in the days when he still represented France abroad, were all more or less (even the famous singers) persons of note, with regard to whom he could tell, when he met them, that he would be able to say, later on, when he heard then—names mentioned in Paris or in Petersburg, that he remembered perfectly the evening he had spent with them at Munich or Sofia, he had formed the habit of impressing upon them, by his affability, the pleasure with which he was making their acquaintance; but in addition to this, being convinced that in the life of European capitals, in contact at once with all the interesting personalities that passed through them and with the manners and customs of the native populations, one acquired a deeper insight than could be gained from books into the intellectual movement throughout Europe, he would exercise upon each newcomer his keen power of observation, so as to decide at once with what manner of man he had to deal. The Government had not for some time now entrusted to him a post abroad, but still, as soon as anyone was introduced to him, his eyes, as though they had not yet been informed of their master’s retirement, began their fruitful observation, while by his whole attitude he endeavoured to convey that the stranger’s name was not unknown to him. And so, all the time, while he spoke to me kindly and with the air of importance of a man who is conscious of the vastness of his own experience, he never ceased to examine me with a sagacious curiosity, and to his own profit, as though I had been some exotic custom, some historic and instruct tive building or some ‘star’ upon his course. And in this way he gave proof at once, in his attitude towards me, of the majestic benevolence of the sage Mentor and of the zealous curiosity of the young Anacharsis.
最后，观众的热烈掌声激起了我的钦佩之情。我把自己的声音和他们的声音混在一起，努力延长整体的声音，以便贝尔玛在她的感激之情中超越自己，我确信在她伟大的日子之一听到了她的声音。顺便说一句，一件奇怪的事情是，正如我后来了解到的那样，当公众热情爆发的那一刻，贝尔玛展示了她最丰富的宝藏之一。似乎某些超然的现实在他们周围散发出人们敏感的光芒。因此，当任何重大事件发生时，当一支军队在遥远的边境陷入危险、或战败或胜利时，我们收到的模糊且相互矛盾的报告，一个受过教育的人无法从这些报告中获得什么启示，就会在人群中激起波澜。这种情绪让这个人感到惊讶，一旦专家批评让他了解了实际的军事局势，他就会认识到围绕重大事件的普遍看法，这种“光环”可能在数百英里之外可见。人们要么在战争结束后得知胜利，要么立即从门房的欢闹喜悦中得知胜利。人们在听完贝尔玛表演一周后，会在一些评论的批评中，或者在现场，从摊位上雷鸣般的欢呼声中，发现她表演中的天才之处。 但群众立即承认的这一点与其他一百种其他的承认混杂在一起，全都是错误的。掌声常常出现在错误的时刻，除了它是由之前的掌声的效果机械地产生的，就像在暴风雨中一样，一旦大海受到足够的扰动，它就会继续膨胀，即使风已经开始减弱。不管;我越鼓掌，我觉得贝尔玛表现得越好。 “我说，”坐在我旁边的一位女士说，她并没有什么伟大的社交自负，“她公平地给了你，她确实这样做了；你可能会认为她这样跑来跑去会伤害自己。我把这称为表演，不是吗？”并且很高兴地找到了贝尔玛优越性的这些理由，尽管不无怀疑，它们对这一点的解释并不比对乔孔达或本韦努托的珀尔修斯的农民张开嘴“那是一个”的解释更多。干得好。都是金子，你看！好吧，不是吗？”我贪婪地喝着这股大众热情的烈酒。尽管如此，当最后一次落下帷幕时，我感到失望，因为我所渴望的快乐并没有更大，但同时我又觉得有必要延长它，而不是永远离开当我离开剧院时，我离开了舞台的这种奇怪的生活，几个小时以来，这个舞台一直是我自己的，当我回到自己的舞台时，我应该把自己从舞台上撕下来，就好像我要被放逐一样；如果我不想在那里从她的崇拜者那里更多地了解贝尔玛的话，我就回到了自己的家，我已经感谢他允许我去菲德尔，德·诺普瓦先生了。晚饭前，父亲把我介绍给他，并为此将我叫到他的书房。 当我进去时，大使站了起来，伸出手，弯下高大的身躯，用蓝色的眼睛专注地看着我的脸。当他仍然代表法国出国时，曾经被介绍给他的外国访客都或多或少（甚至是著名的歌手）都是值得注意的人物，当他见到他们时，他可以告诉他们，后来，当他听到在巴黎或彼得堡提到的名字时，他可以说，他清楚地记得在慕尼黑或索非亚与他们一起度过的那个晚上，他已经养成了给他们留下深刻印象的习惯，由于他的和蔼可亲，他很高兴结识他们；但除此之外，我们相信，在欧洲各国首都的生活中，一旦接触到所有经过它们的有趣人物以及当地居民的风俗习惯，人们就会获得比在欧洲首都的生活中获得的更深刻的洞察力。当他将书籍引入整个欧洲的知识分子运动时，他会对每个新来者运用他敏锐的观察力，以便立即决定他必须与什么样的人打交道。政府已经有一段时间没有委托他在国外担任职务了，但是，只要有人向他介绍，他的眼睛就好像还没有得知他们主人退休的消息一样，开始了富有成效的观察，同时他的整个态度都在努力表明，这个陌生人的名字他并不陌生。 因此，一直以来，当他和蔼地对我说话时，带着一种意识到自己经验丰富的人的重要神态，他从未停止过以敏锐的好奇心来审视我，这也是为了他自己的利益，就好像我是某种异国风情、某个历史悠久、有教育意义的建筑，或者是他课程中的某个“明星”。通过这种方式，他对我的态度立即证明了圣人导师的雄伟仁慈和年轻阿纳卡西斯的狂热好奇心。

He offered me absolutely no opening to the Revue des Deux-Mondes, but put a number of questions to me on what I had been doing and reading; asked what were my own inclinations, which I heard thus spoken of for the first time as though it might be a quite reasonable thing to obey their promptings, whereas hitherto I had always supposed it to be my duty to suppress them. Since they attracted me towards Literature, he did not dissuade me from that course; on the contrary, he spoke of it with deference, as of some venerable personage whose select circle, in Rome or at Dresden, one remembers with pleasure, and regrets only that one’s multifarious duties in life enable one to revisit it so seldom. He appeared to be envying me, with an almost jovial smile, the delightful hours which, more fortunate than himself and more free, I should be able to spend with such a Mistress. But the very terms that he employed shewed me Literature as something entirely different from the image that I had formed of it at Combray, and I realised that I had been doubly right in abandoning my intention. Until now, I had reckoned only that I had not the ‘gift’ for writing; now M. de Norpois took from me the ambition also. I wanted to express to him what had been my dreams; trembling with emotion, I was painfully apprehensive that all the words which I could utter would not be the sincerest possible equivalent of what I had felt, what I had never yet attempted to formulate; that is to say that my words had no clear significance. Perhaps by a professional habit, perhaps by virtue of the calm that is acquired by every important personage whose advice is commonly sought, and who, knowing that he will keep the control of the conversation in his own hands, allows the other party to fret, to struggle, to take his time; perhaps also to emphasize the dignity of his head (Greek, according to himself, despite his sweeping whiskers), M. de Norpois, while anything was being explained to him, would preserve a facial immobility as absolute as if you had been addressing some ancient and unhearing bust in a museum. Until suddenly, falling upon you like an auctioneer’s hammer, or a Delphic oracle, the Ambassador’s voice, as he replied to you, would be all the more impressive, in that nothing in his face had allowed you to guess what sort of impression you had made on him, or what opinion he was about to express.
他绝对没有向我提供《双世界评论》的机会，而是向我提出了一些关于我一直在做什么和读什么的问题；问我自己的倾向是什么，这是我第一次听到这样说，好像听从他们的提示可能是一件相当合理的事情，而迄今为止我一直认为抑制它们是我的责任。由于它们吸引了我对文学的兴趣，他并没有劝阻我学习这门课程；相反，他谈到这件事时充满敬意，就像谈到罗马或德累斯顿的某个受人尊敬的人物一样，人们会愉快地回忆起他的圈子，只是遗憾的是，一个人一生中的繁重职责使人们很少能够重温它。他似乎在嫉妒我，脸上挂着几乎是愉快的微笑，我比他更幸运，更自由，能够和这样一位情妇一起度过愉快的时光。但他所使用的术语向我展示了文学与我在贡布雷所形成的形象完全不同的东西，我意识到我放弃自己的意图是双重正确的。到目前为止，我只认为我没有写作的“天赋”；现在，德·诺普瓦先生也夺走了我的雄心。我想向他表达我的梦想；我激动得浑身发抖，痛苦地担心我能说出的所有话语都无法最真诚地表达我所感受到的、我从未试图表达的；也就是说，我的话没有明确的意义。 也许是出于职业习惯，也许是由于每一位重要人物所获得的冷静，他们经常寻求建议，并且知道自己会将谈话的控制权掌握在自己手中，因此允许对方烦恼，去奋斗，慢慢来；也许也是为了强调他头部的尊严（据他自己说，尽管他的胡须是希腊语），德·诺普瓦先生在向他解释任何事情时，都会保持面部表情绝对不动，就好像你在向某个古老的人讲话一样。以及博物馆里无人知晓的半身像。直到突然间，大使的声音像拍卖师的锤子或德尔菲神谕一样落在你身上，他回答你的时候，会更加令人印象深刻，因为他脸上的任何东西都不允许你猜测你有什么样的印象对他做了什么，或者他要表达什么意见。

‘Precisely;’ he suddenly began, as though the case were now heard and judged, and after allowing me to writhe in increasing helplessness beneath those motionless eyes which never for an instant left my face. ‘There is the case of the son of one of my friends, which, mutatis mutandis, is very much like yours.’ He adopted in speaking of our common tendency the same reassuring tone as if it had been a tendency not to literature but to rheumatics, and he had wished to assure me that it would not necessarily prove fatal. ‘He too has chosen to leave the Quai d’Orsay, although the way had been paved for him there by his father, and without caring what people might say, he has settled down to write. And certainly, he’s had no reason to regret it. He published two years ago—of course, he’s much older than you, you understand—a book dealing with the Sense of the Infinite on the Western Shore of Victoria Nyanza, and this year he has brought out a little thing, not so important as the other, but very brightly, in places perhaps almost too pointedly written, on the Repeating Rifle in the Bulgarian Army; and these have put him quite in a class by himself. He’s gone pretty far already, and he’s not the sort of man to stop half way; I happen to know that (without any suggestion, of course, of his standing for election) his name has been mentioned several times, in conversation, and not at all unfavourably, at the Academy of Moral Sciences. And so, one can’t say yet, of course, that he has reached the pinnacle of fame, still he has made his way, by sheer industry, to a very fine position indeed, and success—which doesn’t always come only to agitators and mischief-makers and men who make trouble which is usually more than they are prepared to take—success has crowned his efforts.’
“正是如此。”他突然开始说道，仿佛这个案子现在已经被审理和判决了，然后他让我在那双一动不动的眼睛下越来越无助地翻滚，那双眼睛一刻也没有离开过我的脸。 “我的一个朋友的儿子的情况，经过必要的修改，与你的儿子非常相似。”在谈到我们的共同倾向时，他采用了同样令人安心的语气，就好像这不是一种文学倾向，而是一种风湿病，他希望向我保证这并不一定会致命。 “他也选择了离开奥赛码头，尽管他的父亲已经为他铺好了那里的路，并且不关心人们会怎么说，他已经安定下来写作。当然，他没有理由后悔。他两年前出版了——当然，他比你年长得多，你懂的——一本关于维多利亚·尼安萨西海岸的无限感的书，今年他推出了一件小事，并不那么重要。另一个，但非常明亮，在保加利亚军队的连发步枪上，有些地方可能写得太尖锐了；这些都使他独树一帜。他已经走了很远了，他不是那种半途而废的人。我碰巧知道（当然，没有任何暗示他的竞选资格）他的名字在道德科学院的谈话中被多次提及，而且一点也不不利。所以，当然，我们还不能说他已经达到了名气的顶峰，但他仍然通过纯粹的勤奋，确实达到了一个非常好的位置，并且取得了成功——这并不总是只有对于煽动者、恶作剧者以及那些制造麻烦的人来说，这些麻烦通常超出了他们准备承受的范围——成功已经为他的努力加冕了。

My father, seeing me already, in a few years’ time, an Academician, was tasting a contentment which M. de Norpois raised to the supreme pitch when, after a momentary hesitation in which he appeared to be calculating the possible consequences of so rash an act, he handed me his card and said: ‘Why not go and see him yourself? Tell him I sent you. He may be able to give you some good advice,’ plunging me by his words into as painful a state of anxiety as if he had told me that, next morning, I was to embark as cabin-boy on board a sailing ship, and to go round the world.
几年后，我的父亲看到我已经成为一名院士，他正在品尝德诺普瓦先生将我提升到最高音调的满足感，在短暂的犹豫之后，他似乎正在计算如此鲁莽的可能后果。作为表演，他递给我他的名片并说：‘为什么不亲自去见他呢？告诉他是我派你来的。他也许能给你一些好的建议，”他的话让我陷入了一种痛苦的焦虑状态，就好像他告诉我，第二天早上，我将作为船舱男孩登上一艘帆船，并且环游世界。

My Aunt Léonie had bequeathed to me, together with all sorts of other things and much of her furniture, with which it was difficult to know what to do, almost all her unsettled estate—revealing thus after her death an affection for me which I had hardly suspected in her lifetime. My father, who was trustee of this estate until I came of age, now consulted M. de Norpois with regard to several of the investments. He recommended certain stocks bearing a low rate of interest, which he considered particularly sound, notably English consols and Russian four per cents. ‘With absolutely first class securities such as those,’ said M. de Norpois, ‘even if your income from them is nothing very great, you may be certain of never losing any of your capital.’ My father then told him, roughly, what else he had bought. M. de Norpois gave a just perceptible smile of congratulation; like all capitalists, he regarded wealth as an enviable thing, but thought it more delicate to compliment people upon their possessions only by a half-indicated sign of intelligent sympathy; on the other hand, as he was himself immensely rich, he felt that he shewed his good taste by seeming to regard as considerable the meagre revenues of his friends, with a happy and comforting resilience to the superiority of his own. He made amends for this by congratulating my father, without hesitation, on the ‘composition’ of his list of investments, selected ‘with so sure, so delicate, so fine a taste.’ You would have supposed, to hear him, that he attributed to the relative values of investments, and even to investments themselves, something akin to aesthetic merit. Of one, comparatively recent and still little known, which my father mentioned, M. de Norpois, like the people who have always read the books of which, you imagine, you yourself alone have ever heard, said at once, ‘Ah, yes, I used to amuse myself for some time with watching it in the papers; it was quite interesting,’ with the retrospective smile of a regular subscriber who has read the latest novel already, in monthly instalments, in his magazine. ‘It would not be at all a bad idea to apply for some of this new issue. It is distinctly attractive; they are offering it at a most tempting discount.’ But when he came to some of the older investments, my father, who could not remember their exact names, which it was easy to confuse with others of the same kind, opened a drawer and shewed the securities themselves to the Ambassador. The sight of them enchanted me. They were ornamented with cathedral spires and allegorical figures, like the old, romantic editions that I had pored over as a child. All the products of one period have something in common; the artists who illustrate the poetry of their generation are the same artists who are employed by the big financial houses. And nothing reminds me so much of the monthly parts of Notre-Dame de Paris, and of various books by Gérard de Nerval, that used to hang outside the grocer’s door at Combray, than does, in its rectangular and flowery border, supported by recumbent river-gods, a ‘personal share’ in the Water Company.
我的莱奥妮姨妈遗赠给了我，连同她的各种其他物品和她的大部分家具（很难知道如何处理这些家具），几乎她所有未解决的财产——因此在她死后揭示了我对我的感情。在她的一生中几乎没有人怀疑过。在我成年之前，我的父亲一直是这个庄园的受托人，现在他就几项投资向德·诺普瓦先生进行了咨询。他推荐了某些他认为特别合理的低利率股票，特别是英国联合证券和俄罗斯百分之四的股票。 “有了这样的绝对一流的证券，”德·诺普瓦先生说，“即使你从中得到的收入不多，你也可以肯定永远不会损失任何资本。”然后我父亲粗略地告诉他，他还买了什么。德·诺普瓦先生露出了一丝明显的祝贺微笑。和所有资本家一样，他认为财富是一件令人羡慕的事情，但他认为，仅以半明半暗的明智同情的方式来称赞人们的财产更为微妙。另一方面，由于他自己非常富有，他认为自己朋友们的微薄收入显得相当可观，同时对自己的优越性表现出一种愉快而令人欣慰的适应力，这表明了他的良好品味。为了弥补这一点，他毫不犹豫地祝贺我父亲的投资清单“构成”，选择“如此确定，如此精致，如此精致的品味”。归因于投资的相对价值，甚至投资本身，类似于审美价值。我父亲提到过一个相对较新且仍鲜为人知的人，M. 德·诺普瓦，就像那些总是读过那些书的人，你想象，只有你自己听说过，他立刻说道：“啊，是的，我曾经有一段时间看报纸上的这些故事来取乐；现在，我知道了。”非常有趣。”一位老订阅者脸上带着回顾性的微笑，他已经在杂志上每月分期读过最新的小说了。 “申请新一期的一些内容绝对不是一个坏主意。它具有明显的吸引力；但当他看到一些较旧的投资时，我的父亲记不起它们的确切名称，很容易与同类的其他投资混淆，他打开一个抽屉，然后向大使展示了证券本身。他们的景象让我着迷。它们装饰着大教堂的尖顶和寓言人物，就像我小时候读过的古老浪漫的版本一样。一个时期的所有产品都有一些共同点；阐释当代诗歌的艺术家正是受雇于大型金融机构的艺术家。没有什么比在贡布雷杂货店门外挂着的巴黎圣母院的每月部分和杰拉尔·德·内瓦尔的各种书籍更让我想起的了，它的长方形和华丽的边框，由斜躺式支撑物支撑着。河神，自来水公司的“个人股份”。

The contempt which my father had for my kind of intelligence was so far tempered by his natural affection for me that, in practice, his attitude towards anything that I might do was one of blind indulgence. And so he had no qualm about telling me to fetch a little ‘prose poem’ which I had made up, years before, at Combray, while coming home from a walk. I had written it down in a state of exaltation which must, I felt certain, infect everyone who read it. But it was not destined to captivate M. de Norpois, for he handed it back to me without a word.
到目前为止，父亲对我的智力的蔑视被他对我的天然感情所缓和，实际上，他对我可能做的任何事情的态度都是一种盲目的纵容。因此，他毫不犹豫地让我取一首小“散文诗”，这是我多年前在贡布雷散步回家时创作的。我是在一种兴奋的状态下写下它的，我确信，这种状态一定会感染每一个读到它的人。但它注定不会吸引德·诺布瓦先生，因为他一言不发地把它还给了我。

My mother, who had the most profound respect for all my father’s occupations, came in now, timidly, to ask whether dinner might be served. She was afraid to interrupt a conversation in which she herself could have no part. And indeed my father was continually reminding the Marquis of some useful suggestion which they had decided to make at the next meeting of the Commission; speaking in the peculiar tone always adopted, when in a strange environment by a pair of colleagues—as exclusive, in this respect, as two young men from the same college—whose professional routine has furnished them with a common fund of memories to which the others present have no access, and to which they are unwilling to refer before an audience.
我的母亲对我父亲的所有职业都怀有最深切的敬意，现在她胆怯地进来，询问是否可以提供晚餐。她害怕打断一场她自己不能参与的谈话。事实上，我父亲不断提醒侯爵他们决定在委员会下次会议上提出一些有用的建议；一对同事在一个陌生的环境中总是采用一种奇特的语气说话——在这方面，就像来自同一所大学的两个年轻人一样排外——他们的职业惯例为他们提供了共同的记忆库，在场的其他人无法访问，也不愿意在观众面前提及。

But the absolute control over his facial muscles to which M. de Norpois had attained allowed him to listen without seeming to hear a word. At last my father became uneasy. ‘I had thought,’ he ventured, after an endless preamble, ‘of asking the advice of the Commission...’ Then from the face of the noble virtuoso, who had been sitting inert as a player in an orchestra sits until the moment comes for him to begin his part, were uttered, with an even delivery, on a sharp note, and as though they were no more than the completion (but scored for a different voice) of the phrase that my father had begun, the words: ‘of which you will not hesitate, of course, to call a meeting; more especially as the present members are all known to you personally, and there may be a change any day.’ This was not in itself a very remarkable ending. But the immobility that had preceded it made it detach itself with the crystal clarity, the almost malicious unexpectedness of those phrases in which the piano, silent until then,’takes up at a given moment, the violoncello to which one has just been listening, in a Mozart concerto.
但德·诺布瓦先生对面部肌肉的绝对控制使他能够听得见，但似乎没有听到任何一句话。父亲终于不安了。 “我曾想过，”在无休无止的序言之后，他大胆地说，“征求委员会的建议……”然后，从这位高贵的演奏家的脸上，他一直像管弦乐队的演奏家一样一动不动地坐着，直到那一刻。来让他开始他的部分，以均匀的语气，尖锐的音调说出来，就好像它们只不过是我父亲开始的那句话的完成（但以不同的声音得分），这些话：“当然，你会毫不犹豫地召开会议；更重要的是，现在的成员都是你们所认识的，而且随时都可能发生变化。”这本身并不是一个非常了不起的结局。但之前的静止使它以水晶般的清晰度分离出来，那些乐句几乎是恶意的、出乎意料的，在这些乐句中，直到那时为止一直保持沉默的钢琴“在某一特定时刻取代了人们刚刚听过的大提琴，在莫扎特协奏曲中。

‘Well, did you enjoy your matinée?’ asked my father, as we moved to the dining-room; meaning me to ‘shew off,’ and with the idea that my enthusiasm would give M. de Norpois a good opinion of me. ‘He has just been to hear Berma. You remember, we were talking about it the other day,’ he went on, turning towards the diplomat, in the same tone of retrospective, technical, mysterious allusiveness as if he had been referring to a meeting of the Commission.
“嗯，你喜欢日场吗？”当我们走向餐厅时，父亲问道。意思是我要“炫耀”，并认为我的热情会让德·诺普瓦先生对我有好感。 “他刚刚去听贝尔玛的演讲。你记得，我们前几天讨论过这个问题，”他转向外交官，继续说道，语气中充满了回顾性、技术性、神秘的暗示，就好像他指的是委员会的一次会议一样。

‘You must have been enchanted, especially if you had never heard her before. Your father was alarmed at the effect that the little jaunt might have upon your health, which is none too good, I am told, none too robust. But I soon set his mind at rest. Theatres to-day are not what they were even twenty years ago. You have more or less comfortable seats now, and a certain amount of ventilation, although we have still a long way to go before we come up to Germany or England, which in that respect as in many others are immeasurably ahead of us. I have never seen Mme. Berma in Phèdre, but I have always heard that she is excellent in the part. You were charmed with her, of course?’
“你一定很着迷，尤其是如果你以前从未听过她的话。你父亲对这次短暂的旅行可能对你的健康造成的影响感到震惊，据我所知，你的健康状况不太好，也不太好。但我很快就让他安心了。今天的剧院已经不再是二十年前的剧院了。现在你已经有了或多或少舒适的座椅，以及一定程度的通风，尽管我们距离德国或英国还有很长的路要走，在这方面，德国或英国在这方面和许多其他国家一样遥遥领先于我们。我从未见过夫人。贝尔玛（Berma）在费德尔（Phèdre）中，但我一直听说她在这个角色中表现出色。你当然被她迷住了？

M. de Norpois, a man a thousand times more intelligent than myself, must know that hidden truth which I had failed to extract from Berma’s playing; he knew, and would reveal it to me; in answering his question I would implore him to let me know in what that truth consisted; and he would tell me, and so justify me in the longing that I had felt to see and hear the actress. I had only a moment, I must make what use I could of it and bring my cross-examination to bear upon the essential points. But what were they? Fastening my whole attention upon my own so confused impressions, with no thought of making M. de Norpois admire me, but only that of learning from him the truth that I had still to discover, I made no attempt to substitute ready-made phrases for the words that failed me—I stood there stammering, until finally, in the hope of provoking him into declaring what there was in Berma that was admirable, I confessed that I had been disappointed.
德·诺普瓦先生比我聪明一千倍，他一定知道我未能从贝尔马的演奏中提取出的隐藏真相；他知道，并且会向我透露；在回答他的问题时，我恳求他让我知道真相是什么；他会告诉我，从而证明我渴望看到和听到这位女演员的声音。我只有一点时间，我必须尽可能利用它，并通过盘问来查明要点。但它们是什么？我把全部注意力集中在自己如此混乱的印象上，并不想让德·诺布瓦先生钦佩我，只是想从他那里了解我尚未发现的真理，我没有试图用现成的短语来代替这些话令我失望——我站在那儿结结巴巴，直到最后，我希望能激起他说出贝尔马有什么令人钦佩的地方，我承认我很失望。

‘What’s that?’ cried my father, annoyed at the bad impression which this admission of my failure to appreciate the performance must make on M. de Norpois, ‘What on earth do you mean; you didn’t enjoy it? Why, your grandmother has been telling us that you sat there hanging on every word that Berma uttered, with your eyes starting out of your head; that everyone else in the theatre seemed quite bored, beside you.’
“那是什么？”我父亲大声喊道，他对我承认自己没有欣赏表演给德·诺布瓦先生留下的坏印象感到恼火，“你到底是什么意思？”你不喜欢吗？哎呀，你的祖母一直告诉我们，你坐在那里，盯着贝尔玛所说的每一个字，眼睛都快要瞪出来了。剧院里的其他人看起来都很无聊，除了你。”

‘Oh, yes, I was listening as hard as I could, trying to find out what it was that was supposed to be so wonderful about her. Of course, she’s frightfully good, and all that...’
“哦，是的，我尽我所能地听着，试图找出她身上到底有什么美妙之处。当然，她非常优秀，而且这一切……”

‘If she is ‘frightfully good,’ what more do you want?’
“如果她‘非常好’，你还想要什么？”

‘One of the things that have undoubtedly contributed to the success of Mme. Berma,’ resumed M. de Norpois, turning with elaborate courtesy towards my mother, so as not to let her be left out of the conversation, and in conscientious fulfilment of his duty of politeness to the lady of the house, ‘is the perfect taste that she shews in selecting her parts; thus she can always be assured of success, and success of the right sort. She hardly ever appears in anything trivial. Look how she has thrown herself into the part of Phèdre. And then, she brings the same good taste to the choice of her costumes, and to her acting. In spite of her frequent and lucrative tours in England and America, the vulgarity—I will not say of John Bull; that would be unjust, at any rate to the England of the Victorian era—but of Uncle Sam has not infected her. No loud colours, no rant. And then that admirable voice, which has been of such service to her, with which she plays so delightfully—I should almost be tempted to describe it as a musical instrument!’
“毫无疑问，这对夫人的成功做出了贡献。 “贝尔玛先生，”德·诺布瓦先生继续说道，他转向我母亲，彬彬有礼，以免让她被排除在谈话之外，并认真履行对女主人礼貌的职责，“是完美的人选”。她在选择角色时所表现出的品味；因此，她总是可以确信自己会成功，而且是正确的成功。她几乎不会出现在任何琐碎的事情中。看看她是如何全身心投入菲德尔这个角色的。然后，她在服装的选择和表演中也带来了同样的高品味。尽管她经常在英国和美国进行巡演并获得丰厚的回报，但她的粗俗——我不会说约翰·布尔；无论如何，这对维多利亚时代的英国来说都是不公平的——但山姆大叔的风气并没有感染她。没有喧闹的色彩，没有咆哮。还有那令人钦佩的声音，这对她很有帮助，她用它演奏得如此愉快——我几乎想把它描述为一种乐器！

My interest in Berma’s acting had continued to grow ever since the fall of the curtain, because it was then no longer compressed within the limits of reality; but I felt the need to find explanations for it; moreover it had been fixed with the same intensity, while Berma was on the stage, upon everything that she offered, in the indivisibility of a living whole, to my eyes and ears; there was nothing separate or distinct; it welcomed, accordingly, the discovery of a reasonable cause in these tributes paid to the simplicity, to the good taste of the actress, it attracted them to itself by its power of absorption, seized hold of them, as the optimism of a drunken man seizes hold of the actions of his neighbour, in each of which he finds an excuse for emotion. ‘He is right!’ I told myself. ‘What a charming voice, what an absence of shrillness, what simple costumes, what intelligence to have chosen Phèdre. No; I have not been disappointed!’
自从大幕落下之后，我对贝尔玛表演的兴趣就一直在增长，因为那时它不再被现实的限制所压缩；而是变得更加有趣。但我觉得有必要为此找到解释；而且，当贝尔玛在舞台上时，它以同样的强度固定在她向我的眼睛和耳朵提供的、不可分割的生命整体中所提供的一切上。没有什么是分离的或不同的；因此，它欢迎在这些赞扬女演员的简单性和高品味的敬意中发现合理的理由，它以其吸收力吸引它们，抓住它们，就像醉酒的人的乐观一样他抓住了邻居的一举一动，在每一个行为中他都为自己的情绪找到了借口。 “他是对的！”我告诉自己。 “多么迷人的声音，多么不刺耳的声音，多么简单的服装，多么明智的选择，选择了菲德尔。”不;我从来没有失望过！'

The cold beef, spiced with carrots, made its appearance, couched by the Michelangelo of our kitchen upon enormous crystals of jelly, like transparent blocks of quartz.
用胡萝卜调味的冷牛肉出现了，由我们厨房的米开朗基罗铺在巨大的果冻晶体上，就像透明的石英块一样。

‘You have a chef of the first order, Madame,’ said M. de Norpois, ‘and that is no small matter. I myself, who have had, when abroad, to maintain a certain style in housekeeping, I know how difficult it often is to find a perfect master-cook. But this is a positive banquet that you have set before us!’
“夫人，您有一位一流的厨师，”德·诺普瓦先生说，“这可不是小事。我自己，在国外时，一直保持一定的家政风格，我知道找到一个完美的厨师长通常是多么困难。但这是您为我们准备的一场积极的盛宴！”

And indeed Françoise, in the excitement of her ambition to make a success, for so distinguished a guest, of a dinner the preparation of which had been obstructed by difficulties worthy of her powers, had given herself such trouble as she no longer took when we were alone, and had recaptured her incomparable Combray manner.
事实上，弗朗索瓦丝在她雄心勃勃的雄心壮志中，为一位如此尊贵的客人准备了一场成功的晚宴，而她的准备工作却因与她的能力相称的困难而受阻，她给自己带来了这样的麻烦，当我们我们见面时，她不再接受这样的麻烦。她们孤身一人，又恢复了她无与伦比的贡布雷风格。

‘That is a thing you can’t get in a chophouse,—in the best of them, I mean; a spiced beef in which the jelly does not taste of glue and the beef has caught the flavour of the carrots; it is admirable! Allow me to come again,’ he went on, making a sign to shew that he wanted more of the jelly. ‘I should be interested to see how your Vatel managed a dish of quite a different kind; I should like, for instance, to see him tackle a boeuf Stroganoff.’
“这是你在餐馆里买不到的东西——我是说，在最好的餐馆里；五香牛肉，果冻没有胶味，牛肉带有胡萝卜的味道；令人钦佩！让我再来一次，”他继续说道，并做了一个手势，表示他想要更多的果冻。 “我应该有兴趣看看你们的瓦岱勒是如何烹制出一道完全不同的菜肴的；例如，我希望看到他对付斯特罗加诺夫牛肉。

M. de Norpois, so as to add his own contribution to the gaiety of the repast, entertained us with a number of the stories with which he was in the habit of regaling his colleagues in ‘the career,’ quoting now some ludicrous sentence uttered by a politician, an old offender, whose sentences were always long and packed with incoherent images, now some monumental epigram of a diplomat, sparkling with attic salt. But, to tell the truth, the criterion which for him set apart these two kinds of phrase in no way resembled that which I was in the habit of applying to literature.. Most of the finer shades escaped me; the words which he repeated with derision seemed to me not to differ very greatly from those which he found remarkable. He belonged to the class of men who, had we come to discuss the books that I liked, would have said: ‘So you understand that, do you? I must confess that I do not understand, I am not initiated;’ but I could have matched his attitude, for I did not grasp the wit or folly, the eloquence or pomposity which he found in a statement or a speech, and the absence of any perceptible reason for one’s being badly and the other’s well expressed made that sort of literature seem more mysterious, more obscure to me than any other. I could distinguish only that to repeat what everybody else was thinking was, in politics, the mark not of an inferior but of a superior mind. When M. de Norpois made use of certain expressions which were ‘common form’ in the newspapers, and uttered them with emphasis, one felt that they became an official pronouncement by the mere fact of his having employed them, and a pronouncement which would provoke a string of comment.
德·诺普瓦先生为了给就餐的欢乐增添自己的贡献，给我们讲了一些他习惯于在“职业”中取悦他的同事的故事，现在引用了一些可笑的句子。一个政客，一个老犯，他的句子总是很长，充满了不连贯的图像，现在是一个外交官的不朽警句，闪闪发光的阁楼盐。但是，说实话，他区分这两种短语的标准与我习惯于应用于文学的标准完全不同。在我看来，他带着嘲笑的口吻重复的那些话与他认为值得注意的那些话并没有太大的不同。他属于这样一类人，如果我们来讨论我喜欢的书，他会说：‘所以你明白这一点，是吗？我必须承认，我不明白，我没有入门；但我本可以与他的态度相一致，因为我没有领会他在声明或演讲中发现的机智或愚蠢，雄辩或浮夸，以及缺席。任何明显的理由导致一个人表现不佳而另一个人表达得很好，这使得这类文学对我来说比任何其他文学都显得更加神秘、更加晦涩。我只能辨别出，在政治上，重复其他人的想法并不是低等人的标志，而是高人一等的标志。当德·诺普瓦先生在报纸上使用了某些“常用形式”的表达方式，并强调它们时，人们会觉得，仅仅因为他使用了这些表达方式，它们就成为了一种正式声明，而且是一种会激怒人们的声明。一串评论。

My mother was counting greatly upon the pineapple and truffle salad. But the Ambassador, after fastening for a moment on the confection the penetrating gaze of a trained observer, ate it with the inscrutable discretion of a diplomat, and without disclosing to us what he thought of it. My mother insisted upon his taking some more, which he did, but saying only, in place of the compliment for which she was hoping: ‘I obey, Madame, for I can see that it is, on your part, a positive ukase!’
我母亲非常指望菠萝松露沙拉。但大使以训练有素的观察者敏锐的目光在甜点上停留了一会儿，然后以外交官高深莫测的判断力吃掉了它，并且没有向我们透露他的想法。我母亲坚持要他再吃一些，他照做了，但只是说，而不是她所希望的恭维：“我服从，夫人，因为我可以看到，就您而言，这是一个积极的 ukase！ '

‘We saw in the ‘papers that you had a long talk with King Theodosius,’ my father ventured.
“我们在‘报纸上看到你和狄奥多西国王进行了一次长谈，’我父亲大胆地说。

‘Why, yes; the King, who has a wonderful memory for faces, was kind enough to remember, when he noticed me in the stalls, that I had had the honour to meet him on several occasions at the Court of Bavaria, at a time when he had never dreamed of his oriental throne—to which, as you know, he was summoned by a European Congress, and indeed had grave doubts about accepting the invitation, regarding that particular sovereignty as unworthy of his race, the noblest, heraldically speaking, in the whole of Europe. An aide-de-camp came down to bid me pay my respects to his Majesty, whose command I hastened, naturally, to obey.’
'为什么是;国王对面孔有着惊人的记忆力，当他在隔间里注意到我时，他很友善地记得，我有幸在巴伐利亚宫廷见过他几次，而当时他从未见过他。梦想着他的东方王位——正如你所知，他被欧洲议会召唤，事实上，他对接受邀请有严重的怀疑，认为这种特殊的主权不值得他的种族，从纹章上来说，是最高贵的种族。欧洲的。一位副官下来请我向国王陛下致敬，我自然赶紧服从他的命令。

‘And I trust, you are satisfied with the results of his visit?’
“我相信，您对他访问的结果感到满意吗？”

‘Enchanted! One was justified in feeling some apprehension as to the manner in which a Sovereign who is still so young would handle a situation requiring tact, particularly at this highly delicate juncture. For my own part, I reposed entire confidence in the King’s political sense. But I must confess that he far surpassed my expectations. The speech that he made at the Elysée, which, according to information that has come to me from a most authoritative source, was composed, from beginning to end, by himself, was fully deserving of the interest that it has aroused in all quarters. It was simply masterly; a trifle daring, I quite admit, but with an audacity which, after all, has been fully justified by the event. Traditional diplomacy is all very well in its way, but in practice it has made his country and ours live in an hermetically sealed atmosphere in which it was no longer possible to breathe. Very well! There is one method of letting in fresh air, obviously not one of the methods which one could officially recommend, but one which King Theodosius might allow himself to adopt—and that is to break the windows. Which he accordingly did, with a spontaneous good humour that delighted everybody, and also with an aptness in his choice of words in which one could at once detect the race of scholarly princes from whom he is descended through his mother. There can be no question that when he spoke of the ‘affinities’ that bound his country to France, the expression, rarely as it may occur in the vocabulary of the Chancellories, was a singularly happy one. You see that literary ability is no drawback, even in diplomacy, even upon a throne,’ he went on, turning for a moment to myself. ‘The community of interests had long been apparent, I quite admit, and the relations of the two Powers were excellent. Still, it needed putting into words. The word was what we were all waiting for, it was chosen with marvellous aptitude; you have seen the effect it had. For my part, I must confess I applauded openly.’
‘着迷了！人们对一位如此年轻的君主处理需要机智的局势的方式感到有些担忧是有道理的，尤其是在这个高度微妙的时刻。就我个人而言，我对国王的政治判断充满信心。但我必须承认，他远远超出了我的预期。他在爱丽舍宫发表的演讲，根据我从最权威的来源得到的消息，从头到尾都是他本人撰写的，完全值得引起各方的兴趣。这简直就是大师级的。我承认，这有点大胆，但毕竟，这件事已经充分证明了这种大胆。传统外交固然很好，但实际上却让他的国家和我们的国家生活在一个无法呼吸的密闭气氛中。很好！有一种方法可以让新鲜空气进入，显然不是官方推荐的方法之一，但狄奥多西国王可能允许自己采用一种方法——那就是打破窗户。他相应地做到了，他的幽默感令大家高兴，而且他的措辞得体，让人一眼就能看出他是一位博学的王子，他是他母亲的后裔。毫无疑问，当他谈到他的国家与法国的“密切关系”时，这种表达方式在总理府的词汇中很少出现，但却是一种异常愉快的表达方式。你看，文学能力并不是缺点，即使在外交领域，即使在王位上，”他继续说道，同时转向自己。 “我承认，利益共同体早已显而易见，两国关系也非常好。尽管如此，它仍然需要用语言表达。这个词是我们所有人都在等待的，它的选择具有惊人的天赋。你已经看到了它的效果。就我而言，我必须承认我公开鼓掌。’

‘Your friend M. de Vaugoubert will be pleased, after preparing for the agreement all these years.’
“你的朋友德·沃古贝尔先生在为这份协议准备了这么多年之后，一定会很高兴的。”

‘All the more so that his Majesty, who is quite incorrigible, really, in some ways, had taken care to spring it on him as a surprise. And it did come as a complete surprise, incidentally, to everyone concerned, beginning with the Foreign Minister himself, who—I have heard—did not find it at all to his liking. It appears that someone spoke to him about it and that he replied, pretty sharply, and loud enough to be overheard by the people on either side of them: ‘I have been neither consulted nor informed!’ indicating clearly by that that he declined to accept any responsibility for the consequences. I must own that the incident has given rise to a great deal of comment, and I should not go so far as to deny,’ he went on with a malicious smile, ‘that certain of my colleagues, for whom the supreme law appears to be that of inertia, may have been shaken from their habitual repose. As for Vaugoubert, you are aware that he has been bitterly attacked for his policy of bringing that country into closer relations with France, which must have been more than ordinarily painful to him, he is so sensitive, such an exquisite nature. I can amply testify to that, since, for all that he is considerably my junior, I have had many dealings with him, we are friends of long standing and I know him intimately. Besides, who could help knowing him? His is a heart of crystal. Indeed, that is the one fault that there is to be found with him; it is not necessary for the heart of a diplomat to be as transparent as all that. Still, that does not prevent their talking of sending him to Rome, which would be a fine rise for him, but a pretty big plum to swallow. Between ourselves, I fancy that Vaugoubert, utterly devoid of ambition as he is, would be very well pleased, and would by no means ask for that cup to pass from him. For all we know, he may do wonders down there; he is the chosen candidate of the Consulta, and for my part I can see him very well placed, with his artistic leanings, in the setting of the Farnese Palace and the Caracci Gallery. At least you would suppose that it was impossible for any one to hate him; but there is a whole camarilla collected round King Theodosius which is more or less held in fief by the Wilhelmstrasse, whose inspiration its members dutifully absorb, and these men have done everything in their power to checkmate him. Not only has Vaugoubert had to face these backstairs intrigues, he has had to endure also the insults of a gang of hireling pamphleteers who later on, being like every subsidised journalist the most arrant cowards, have been the first to cry quits, but in the interval had not shrunk from hurling at our Representative the most fatuous accusations that the wit of irresponsible fools could invent. For a month and more Vaugoubert’s enemies had been dancing round him, howling for his scalp,’ M. de Norpois detached this word with shacp emphasis. ‘But forewarned is forearmed; as for their insults, he spurned them with his foot!’ he went on with even more determination, and with so fierce a glare in his eye that for a moment we forgot our food. ‘In the words of a fine Arab proverb, ‘The dogs may bark; the caravan goes on!’’ After launching this quotation M. de Norpois paused and examined our faces, to see what effect it had had upon us. Its effect was great, the proverb being familiar to us already. It had taken the place, that year, among people who ‘really counted,’ of ‘He who sows the wind shall reap the whirlwind,’ which was sorely in need of a rest, not having the perennial freshness of ‘Working for the King of Prussia.’ For the culture of these eminent men was an alternate, if not a tripartite and triennial culture. Of course, the use of quotations such as these, with which M. de Norpois excelled in jewelling his articles in the Revue, was in no way essential to their appearing solid and well-informed. Even without the ornament which the quotations supplied, it sufficed that M. de Norpois should write at a given point (as he never failed to write): ‘The Court of St. James’s was not the last to be sensible of the peril,’ or ‘Feeling ran high on the Singers’ Bridge, which with anxious eyes was following the selfish but skilful policy of the Dual Monarchy,’ or ‘A cry of alarm sounded from Montecitorio,’ or yet again, ‘That everlasting double-dealing which is so characteristic of the Ballplatz.’ By these expressions the profane reader had at once recognised and had paid deference to the diplomat de carrière. But what had made people say that he was something more than that, that he was endowed with a superior culture, had been his careful use of quotations, the perfect example of which, at that date, was still: ‘Give me a good policy and I will give you good finances, to quote the favourite words of Baron Louis”: for we had not yet imported from the Far East: ‘Victory is on the side that can hold out a quarter of an hour longer than the other, as the Japanese say.’ This reputation for immense literary gifts, combined with a positive genius for intrigue which he kept concealed beneath a mask of indifference, had secured the election of M. de Norpois to the Académie des Sciences Morales. And there were some who even thought that he would riot be out of place in the Académie Française, on the famous day when, wishing to indicate that it was only by drawing the Russian Alliance closer that we could hope to arrive at an understanding with Great Britain, he had not hesitated to write: ‘Be it clearly understood in the Quai d’Orsay, be it taught henceforward in all the manuals of geography, which appear to be incomplete in this respect, be his certificate of graduation remorselessly withheld from every candidate who has not learned to say, ‘If all roads lead to Rome, nevertheless the way from Paris to London runs of necessity through St. Petersburg.’’
“更重要的是，在某些方面确实无可救药的陛下特意把这件事抛给了他，让他大吃一惊。”顺便说一句，这确实让所有相关人员感到完全惊讶，首先是外交部长本人，我听说他根本不喜欢它。似乎有人跟他谈过此事，他回答得非常尖锐，声音大到两边的人都能听到：“我没有被咨询过，也没有被告知过！”这清楚地表明他拒绝这样做。对此后果承担任何责任。我必须承认，这一事件引起了很多评论，我不应该否认，”他带着恶意的微笑继续说道，“我的某些同事，对他们来说，最高法律似乎是由于惯性，他们可能已经从习惯性的休息中动摇了。至于沃古贝尔，你知道，他因使该国与法国建立更密切关系的政策而受到猛烈攻击，这对他来说一定比平常更痛苦，他是如此敏感，如此精致的天性。我可以充分证明这一点，因为尽管他比我晚辈，但我和他有过多次交往，我们是老朋友，我对他也很了解。再说了，谁能不认识他呢？他有一颗水晶般的心。确实，这是他唯一的缺点。外交官的心没必要那么透明。尽管如此，这并不妨碍他们谈论将他送到罗马，这对他来说是一个很好的升迁，但也是一个相当大的李子吞下。 我私下告诉你，沃古贝尔完全没有野心，他一定会非常高兴，并且绝不会要求将杯子从他手中夺走。据我们所知，他可能会在那里创造奇迹；他是咨询会选定的候选人，就我而言，我可以看到他凭借他的艺术倾向在法尔内塞宫和卡拉奇画廊的环境中处于非常有利的位置。至少你会认为没有人会恨他；但在狄奥多西国王周围聚集了一个完整的权奸集团，他们或多或少地被威廉大街封为封地，其成员尽职尽责地吸收了威廉大街的灵感，这些人已尽一切努力来制止他。沃古贝尔不仅要面对这些幕后阴谋，还必须忍受一帮雇佣小册子作者的侮辱，这些人后来就像每一个受资助的记者一样，是最彻头彻尾的胆小鬼，第一个哭了出来。我们的代表毫不犹豫地向我们的代表提出了最愚蠢的指控，这些指控是不负责任的傻瓜的智慧所能发明的。一个多月来，沃古贝尔的敌人一直围着他跳舞，为他的头皮嚎叫。”德·诺普瓦先生用断断续续的语气强调了这个词。 ‘但凡事预则立，至于他们的侮辱，他用脚拒绝了他们！”他更加坚决地继续说道，他的眼睛里的目光如此凶猛，以至于我们一时忘记了我们的食物。 “用一句优美的阿拉伯谚语来说，‘狗可能会叫；大篷车继续前进！”在发出这句话后，德·诺布瓦先生停了下来，审视着我们的脸，看看它对我们产生了什么影响。它的影响是巨大的，这句谚语我们已经很熟悉了。 那一年，在那些“真正重要”的人们中间，“种风者必收旋风”，他们急需休息，没有“为王效力”的常年新鲜感。因为这些杰出人物的文化即使不是三方文化、三年文化，也是一种替代文化。当然，德·诺布瓦先生在《评论》上的文章中所擅长的引文的使用，对于文章显得扎实和消息灵通来说，并不是必要的。即使没有引文所提供的装饰，德·诺普瓦先生在某一特定点上写道（因为他从来没有失败过）就足够了：“圣詹姆斯法院并不是最后一个意识到危险的人，”或者“歌手桥上的情绪高涨，它以焦虑的目光追随双重君主制自私但熟练的政策”，或者“蒙特西托里奥发出了警报的呼声”，或者再次，“永远的两面派，这就是 Ballplatz 的特色。”通过这些表达，亵渎的读者立刻认出了这位外交官 de carrière，并对他表示敬意。但人们之所以说他不仅如此，说他具有优越的文化，还在于他对引语的谨慎使用，当时最完美的例子仍然是：“给我一个好政策”我会给你良好的财务状况，引用路易斯男爵最喜欢的话”：因为我们还没有从远东进口：“胜利属于能够比另一方多坚持一刻钟的一方，因为日本人说。”这种巨大的文学天赋的声誉，加上他隐藏在冷漠面具下的积极的阴谋天赋，确保了先生的当选。 德诺普瓦到莫拉莱斯科学院。有些人甚至认为，在这个著名的日子里，他在法兰西学院会显得格格不入，他们希望表明，只有通过拉近俄罗斯联盟的距离，我们才有希望与伟大的法国达成谅解。英国，他毫不犹豫地写道：“无论在《奥赛码头》中清楚地理解这一点，还是今后所有地理学手册中都讲授的这一点，而这些手册在这方面似乎并不完整，他的毕业证书就被无情地扣押给每个人。”候选人还没有学会说：“如果条条大路通罗马，那么从巴黎到伦敦的路必须经过圣彼得堡。”’’

‘In short,’ M. de Norpois went on, addressing my father, ‘Vaugoubert has won himself considerable distinction from this affair, quite beyond anything on which he can have reckoned. He expected, you understand, a correctly worded speech (which, after the storm-clouds of recent years, would have been something to the good) but nothing more. Several persons who had the honour to be present have assured me that it is impossible, when one merely reads the speech, to form any conception of the effect that it produced when uttered—when articulated with marvellous clearness of diction by the King, who is a master of the art of public speaking and in that passage underlined every possible shade of meaning. I allowed myself, in this connexion, to listen to a little anecdote which brings into prominence once again that frank, boyish charm by which King Theo-dosius has won so many hearts. I am assured that, just as he uttered that word ‘affinities,’ which was, of course, the startling innovation of the speech, and one that, as you will see, will provoke discussion in the Chancellories for years to come, his Majesty, anticipating the delight of our Ambassador, who was to find in that word the seal, the crown set upon all his labours, on his dreams, one might almost say, and, in a word, his marshal’s baton, made a half turn towards Vaugoubert and fixing upon him his arresting gaze, so characteristic of the Oettingens, fired at him that admirably chosen word ‘affinities,’ a positive treasure-trove, uttering it in a tone which made it plain to all his hearers that it was employed of set purpose and with full knowledge of the circumstances. It appears that Vaugoubert found some difficulty in mastering his emotion, and I must confess that, to a certain extent, I can well understand it. Indeed, a person who is entirely to be believed has told me, in confidence, that the King came up to Vaugoubert after the dinner, when His Majesty was holding an informal court, and was heard to say, ‘Well, are you satisfied with your pupil, my dear Marquis?’
“简而言之，”德·诺普瓦先生对我父亲继续说道，“沃古伯特从这件事中为自己赢得了相当大的荣誉，远远超出了他的想象。你知道，他期待的是一场措辞正确的演讲（在经历了近年来的暴风雨之后，这本来是一件好事），但仅此而已。几位有幸出席的人士向我保证，当一个人仅仅阅读演讲时，不可能对演讲所产生的效果产生任何概念——当国王以极其清晰的措辞表达时，他是一位公共演讲艺术大师，在那段话中强调了每一种可能的含义。在这方面，我让自己听了一件小轶事，它再次突出了狄奥多西国王赢得如此多人心的坦率、孩子气的魅力。我确信，正如他所说的“亲和力”这个词，这当然是演讲中令人震惊的创新，而且正如你将看到的，它将在未来几年内引起总理大臣们的讨论，陛下，期待着我们的大使的喜悦，他将在这个词中找到印章，为他所有的劳动和他的梦想戴上王冠，人们几乎可以说，总之，他的元帅的指挥棒，半转向沃古贝尔以厄廷根家族特有的引人注目的目光注视着他，向他发射了那个令人钦佩地选择的“亲和力”这个词，这是一个积极的宝库，他说这句话的语气让所有听众都清楚地知道它被用来设定目标并充分了解情况。看来沃古伯特在控制自己的情绪方面有些困难，我必须承认，在某种程度上，我很能理解这一点。 事实上，一个完全可信的人曾私下告诉我，晚宴结束后，国王陛下正在举行非正式法庭，他来到沃古贝尔那里，有人听到他说：“好吧，您对这件事感到满意吗？”你的学生，我亲爱的侯爵？’

‘One thing, however,’ M. de Norpois concluded, ‘is certain; and that is that a speech like that has done more than twenty years of negotiation towards bringing the two countries together, uniting their ‘affinities,’ to borrow the picturesque expression of Theodosius II. It is no more than a word, if you like, but look what success it has had, how the whole of the European press is repeating it, what interest it has aroused, what a new note it has struck. Besides it is distinctly in the young Sovereign’s manner. I will not go so far as to say that he lights upon a diamond of that water every day. But it is very seldom that, in his prepared speeches, or better still in the impulsive flow of his conversation, he does not reveal his character—I was on the point of saying ‘does not affix his signature’—by the use of some incisive word. I myself am quite free from any suspicion of partiality in this respect, for I am stoutly opposed to all innovations in terminology. Nine times out of ten they are most dangerous.’
“然而，”德·诺普瓦先生总结道，“有一件事是肯定的：借用狄奥多西二世生动的表述，就是这样的演讲已经为两国走到一起、团结了他们的“亲和力”进行了二十多年的谈判。如果你愿意的话，这只不过是一个词，但看看它取得了多大的成功，整个欧洲媒体如何重复它，它引起了多大的兴趣，它发出了多么新的音符。而且这也明显是年轻君主的风格。我不会说他每天都点着那水的钻石。但是，在他准备好的演讲中，或者更好的是在他的谈话的冲动中，他很少不暴露他的性格——我正要说“没有签名”——通过使用一些精辟的话。我本人在这方面完全没有任何偏袒之嫌，因为我坚决反对一切术语上的创新。十分之九它们是最危险的。

‘Yes, I was thinking, only the other day, that the German Emperor’s telegram could not be much to your liking,’ said my father.
“是的，就在前几天，我还在想，德国皇帝的电报不太合你的胃口，”我父亲说。

M. de Norpois raised his eyes to heaven, as who should say, ‘Oh, that fellow!’ before he replied: ‘In the first place, it is an act of ingratitude. It is more than a crime; it is a blunder, and one of a crassness which I can describe only as pyramidal! Indeed, unless some one puts a check on his activities, the man who has got rid of Bismarck is quite capable of repudiating by degrees the whole of the Bismarckian policy; after which it will be a leap in the dark.’
德·诺布瓦先生抬头望天，谁会说：“哦，那个家伙！”然后他回答道：“首先，这是一种忘恩负义的行为。”这不仅仅是犯罪；这是一个错误，也是一种粗鲁的错误，我只能用金字塔来形容！事实上，除非有人对他的活动进行制止，否则除掉俾斯麦的人完全有能力逐渐否定俾斯麦的全部政策。在那之后，这将是黑暗中的一次飞跃。

‘My husband tells me, sir, that you are perhaps going to take him to Spain one summer; that will be nice for him; I am so glad.’
“先生，我丈夫告诉我，你也许会在今年夏天带他去西班牙；这对他有好处；我很高兴。'

‘Why, yes; it is an idea that greatly attracts me; I amuse myself, planning a tour. I should like to go there with you, my dear fellow. But what about you, Madame; have you decided yet how you are going to spend your holidays?’
'为什么是;这是一个非常吸引我的想法；我一边自娱自乐，一边计划着旅行。我想和你一起去那里，我亲爱的朋友。但是您呢，女士？你已经决定如何度过假期了吗？

‘I shall perhaps go with my son to Balbec, but I am not certain.’
“我也许会和我的儿子一起去巴尔贝克，但我不确定。”

‘Oh, but Balbec is quite charming, I was down that way a few years ago. They are beginning to build some very pretty little-villas there; I think you’ll like the place. But may I ask what has made you choose Balbec?’
“哦，但是巴尔贝克很迷人，几年前我就去过那里。他们开始在那里建造一些非常漂亮的小别墅；我想你会喜欢这个地方的。但我可以问一下是什么让您选择了巴尔贝克吗？

‘My son is very anxious to visit some of the churches in that neighbourhood, and Balbec church in particular. I was a little afraid that the tiring journey there, and the discomfort of staying in the place might be too much for him. But I hear that they have just opened an excellent hotel, in which he will be able to get all the comfort that he requires.’
“我儿子非常渴望参观附近的一些教堂，特别是巴尔贝克教堂。我有点担心路途的劳累，以及呆在这个地方的不适，可能会让他受不了。但我听说他们刚刚开了一家很棒的酒店，他将能够在其中获得他所需要的所有舒适感。”

‘Indeed! I must make a note of that, for a certain person who will not turn up her nose at a comfortable hotel.’
'的确！我必须记下这一点，因为某个人不会对舒适的酒店嗤之以鼻。

‘The church at Balbec is very beautiful, sir, is it not?’ I inquired, repressing my sorrow at learning that one of the attractions of Balbec consisted in its pretty little villas.
“巴尔贝克的教堂非常漂亮，先生，不是吗？”我问道，在得知巴尔贝克的吸引力之一在于其漂亮的小别墅后，我强忍住悲伤。

‘No, it is not bad; but it cannot be compared for a moment with such positive jewels in stone as the Cathedrals of Rheims and Chartres, or with what is to my mind the pearl among them all, the Sainte-Chapelle here in Paris.’
‘不，这还不错；但它根本无法与兰斯大教堂和沙特尔大教堂等宝石般的宝石相提并论，也无法与我心目中的珍珠大教堂——巴黎的圣礼拜堂相提并论。

‘But, surely, Balbec church is partly romanesque, is it not?’
“但是，巴尔贝克教堂肯定有部分罗马式风格，不是吗？”

‘Why, yes, it is in the romanesque style, which is to say very cold and lifeless, with no hint in it anywhere of the grace, the fantasy of the later gothic builders, who worked their stone as if it had been so much lace. Balbec church is well worth a visit, if you are in those parts; it is decidedly quaint; on a wet day, when you have nothing better to do, you might look inside; you will see the tomb of Tourville.’
“为什么，是的，它是罗马式风格，也就是说非常冷漠和死气沉沉，没有一丝优雅，没有后来哥特式建筑者的幻想，他们在加工石头时就好像它已经经过了如此多的努力一样。”蕾丝。如果您在这些地区，巴尔贝克教堂非常值得一游；它确实很古怪；在潮湿的日子里，当你无事可做时，你可能会向内看；你会看到图尔维尔的坟墓。

‘Tell me, were you at the Foreign Ministry dinner last night?’ asked my father. ‘I couldn’t go.’
“告诉我，你昨晚参加了外交部的晚宴吗？”父亲问。 “我不能去。”

‘No,’ M. de Norpois smiled, ‘I must confess that I renounced it for a party of a very different sort. I was dining with a lady whose name you may possibly have heard, the beautiful Mme. Swann.’ My mother checked an impulsive movement, for, being more rapid in perception than my father, she used to alarm herself on his account over things which only began to upset him a moment later. Anything unpleasant that might occur to him was discovered first by her, just as bad news from France is always known abroad sooner than among ourselves. But she was curious to know what sort of people the Swanns managed to entertain, and so inquired of M. de Norpois as to whom he had met there.
“不，”德·诺布瓦先生微笑着，“我必须承认，我为了参加一个完全不同的聚会而放弃了它。我正在和一位女士吃饭，您可能听说过她的名字，美丽的夫人。斯旺。”我的母亲抑制住了冲动的动作，因为她的感知比我父亲更快，她常常为他的事情而感到惊慌，而这些事情过了一会儿才开始让他心烦意乱。他身上发生的任何不愉快的事情都会被她首先发现，就像来自法国的坏消息总是比我们自己更早地传到国外一样。但她很好奇，想知道斯旺一家招待了什么样的人，于是向德·诺布瓦先生询问他在那里遇见了谁。

‘Why, my dear lady, it is a house which (or so it struck me) is especially attractive to gentlemen. There were several married men there last night, but their wives were all, as it happened, unwell, and so had not come with them,’ replied the Ambassador with a mordancy sheathed in good-humour, casting on each of us a glance the gentleness and discretion of which appeared to be tempering while in reality they deftly intensified its malice.
“哎呀，亲爱的女士，这座房子（或者说我是这么认为的）对绅士们特别有吸引力。昨晚那里有几个已婚男人，但碰巧他们的妻子身体都不好，所以没有跟他们一起来。”大使带着幽默的语气回答道，同时向我们每个人看了一眼温柔与谨慎，看似缓和，实则巧妙地强化了其恶意。

‘In all fairness,’ he went on, ‘I must add that women do go to the house, but women who belong rather—what shall I say—to the Republican world than to Swann’s’ (he pronounced it ‘Svann’s’) ‘circle. Still, you can never tell. Perhaps it will turn into a political or a literary salon some day. Anyhow, they appear to be quite happy as they are. Indeed, I feel that Swann advertises his happiness just a trifle too blatantly. He told us the names of all the people who had asked him and his wife out for the next week, people with whom there was no particular reason to be proud of being intimate, with a want of reserve, of taste, almost of tact which I was astonished to remark in so refined a man. He kept on repeating, ‘We haven’t a free evening!’ as though that had been a thing to boast of, positively like a parvenu, and he is certainly not that. For Swann had always plenty of friends, women as well as men, and without seeming over-bold, without the least wish to appear indiscreet, I think I may safely say that not all of them, of course, nor even the majority of them, but one at least, who is a lady of the very highest rank, would perhaps not have shewn herself inexorably averse from the idea of entering upon relations with Mme. Swann, in which case it is safe to assume that more than one sheep of the social flock would have followed her lead. But it seems that there has been no indication on Swann’s part of any movement in that direction.
“平心而论，”他接着说，“我必须补充一点，女人确实会进屋，但我该怎么说呢，这些女人属于共和世界，而不是斯旺的世界”（他将其发音为“斯万的”）。圆圈。不过，你永远无法判断。也许有一天它会变成一个政治或文学沙龙。不管怎样，他们看起来很高兴。确实，我觉得斯旺宣扬自己的幸福有点太明目张胆了。他告诉我们所有邀请他和他妻子下周出去的人的名字，这些人没有什么特别的理由为与他们的亲密而感到自豪，缺乏保留，品味，几乎是圆滑的，我很惊讶能在如此优雅的一个人身上说出这样的话。他不断地重复着：“我们没有一个自由的夜晚！”仿佛这是一件值得夸耀的事情，简直就像一个暴发户，而他当然不是那样。因为斯旺总是有很多朋友，无论是女人还是男人，而且不会显得过于大胆，也不会表现得轻率，我想我可以有把握地说，当然，不是所有人，甚至不是他们中的大多数但至少，一位地位最高的女士，也许不会表现出坚决反对与夫人建立关系的想法。斯旺，在这种情况下，可以肯定地认为，社交羊群中不止一只羊会跟随她的领导。但斯旺方面似乎没有迹象表明有任何朝这个方向发展的迹象。

‘What do I see? A Nesselrode pudding! As well! I declare, I shall need a course at Carlsbad after such a Lucullus-feast as this.
‘我看到了什么？内塞尔罗德布丁！还有！我宣布，在这样的卢库勒斯盛宴之后，我需要在卡尔斯巴德上一门课程。

‘Possibly Swann felt that there would be too much resistance to overcome. The marriage—so much is certain—was not well received. There has been some talk of his wife’s having money, but that is all humbug. Anyhow, the whole affair has been looked upon with disfavour. And then, Swann has an aunt who is excessively rich and in an admirable position socially, married to a man who, financially speaking, is a power. Not only has she refused to meet Mme. Swann, she has actually started a campaign to force her friends and acquaintances to do the same. I do not mean to say that anyone who moves in a good circle in Paris has shewn any actual incivility to Mme. Swann.... No! A hundred times no! Quite apart from her husband’s being eminently a man to take up the challenge. Anyhow, there is one curious thing about it, to see the immense importance that Swann, who knows so many and such exclusive people, attaches to a society of which the best that can be said is that it is extremely mixed. I myself, who knew him in the old days, must admit that I felt more astonished than amused at seeing a man so well-bred as he is, so much at home in the best houses, effusively thanking the Chief Secretary to the Minister of Posts for having come to them, and asking him whether Mme. Swann might take the liberty of calling upon his wife. He must feel something of an exile, don’t you know; evidently, it’s quite a different world. I don’t think, all the same, that Swann is unhappy. It is true that for some years before the marriage she was always trying to blackmail him in a rather disgraceful way; she would take the child away whenever Swann refused her anything. Poor Swann, who is as unsophisticated as he is, for all that, sharp, believed every time that the child’s disappearance was a coincidence, and declined to face the facts. Apart from that, she made such continual scenes that everyone expected that, from the day she attained her object and was safely married, nothing could possibly restrain her and that their life would be a hell on earth. Instead of which, just the opposite has happened. People are inclined to laugh at the way in which Swann speaks of his wife; it’s become a standing joke. Of course, one could hardly expect that, conscious, more or less of being a—(you remember Molière’s line) he would go and proclaim it urbi et orbi; still that does not prevent one from finding a tendency in him to exaggerate when he declares that she makes an excellent wife. And yet that is not so far from the truth as people imagine. In her own way—which is not, perhaps, what all husbands would prefer, but then, between you and me, I find it difficult to believe that Swann, who has known her for ever so long and is far from being an utter fool, did not know what to expect—there can be no denying that she does seem to have a certain regard for him. I do not say that she is not flighty, and Swann himself has no fault to find with her for that, if one is to believe the charitable tongues which, as you may suppose, continue to wag. But she is distinctly grateful to him for what he has done for her, and, despite the fears that were everywhere expressed of the contrary, her temper seems to have become angelic.’
“可能斯旺觉得有太多的阻力需要克服。可以肯定的是，这段婚姻并没有受到好评。有人说他妻子很有钱，但这都是骗人的。无论如何，整个事件都受到了不公正的对待。然后，斯万有一个非常富有、社会地位令人钦佩的姨妈，嫁给了一个在经济上有权力的男人。她不仅拒绝与夫人见面。斯旺，她实际上发起了一场运动，迫使她的朋友和熟人也这样做。我的意思并不是说，在巴黎的一个好圈子里活动的任何人都对夫人表现出任何实际的不礼貌行为。斯旺……不！一百次不！更何况她的丈夫是一位敢于接受挑战的男人。无论如何，有一件奇怪的事情是，斯万认识这么多、如此排外的人，他对这个社会的高度重视，而这个社会最好的说法就是它是一个极其复杂的社会。我自己，过去就认识他，必须承认，当我看到一个像他这样有教养的人，在最好的房子里如此自在，并热情地感谢首席秘书向部长表示感谢时，我感到更多的是惊讶而不是好笑。帖子来找他们，并询问他女士是否。斯旺可能会冒昧地拜访他的妻子。他一定有一种被放逐的感觉，你知道吗？显然，这是一个完全不同的世界。尽管如此，我并不认为斯旺不高兴。确实，在结婚前的几年里，她总是试图以一种相当不光彩的方式敲诈他；每当斯旺拒绝她任何事情时，她就会把孩子带走。 可怜的斯万，尽管如此，虽然头脑简单，但很敏锐，每次都相信孩子的失踪是巧合，拒绝面对事实。除此之外，她不断的出戏，让所有人都预料到，从她得偿所愿、平安结婚的那一天起，就没有什么可以束缚她了，他们的生活将是人间地狱。但事实恰恰相反。人们倾向于嘲笑斯旺谈论他妻子的方式。这已经成为一个笑话。当然，人们很难期望，有意识地，或多或少地成为一个——（你还记得莫里哀的台词）他会去宣布它为“urbi et orbi”；但这并不妨碍当他宣称她是一位出色的妻子时，他有一种夸大其词的倾向。然而，这并不像人们想象的那样远离事实。以她自己的方式——这也许不是所有丈夫都喜欢的，但是，在你我之间，我发现很难相信斯旺，她认识她这么久了，远不是一个彻头彻尾的傻瓜。 ，不知道会发生什么——不可否认，她似乎确实对他有一定的尊重。我并不是说她不轻浮，而且斯万本人也无可挑剔，如果你相信那些善意的舌头，正如你可能想象的那样，这些舌头一直在晃来晃去。但她显然很感激他为她所做的一切，尽管到处都表达着相反的恐惧，但她的脾气似乎变得天使般。’

This alteration was perhaps not so extraordinary as M. de Norpois professed to find it. Odette had not believed that Swann would ever consent to marry her; each time that she made the suggestive announcement that some man about town had just married his mistress she had seen him stiffen into a glacial silence, or at the most, if she were directly to challenge him, asking: ‘Don’t you think it very nice, a very fine thing that he has done, for a woman who sacrificed all her youth to him?’ had heard him answer dryly: ‘But I don’t say that there’s anything wrong in it. Everyone does what he himself thinks right.’ She came very near, indeed, to believing that (as he used to threaten in moments of anger) he was going to leave her altogether, for she had heard it said, not long since, by a woman sculptor, that ‘You cannot be surprised at anything men do, they’re such brutes,’ and impressed by the profundity of this maxim of pessimism she had appropriated it for herself, and repeated it on every possible occasion with an air of disappointment which seemed to imply: ‘After all, it’s not impossible in any way; it would be just my luck.’ Meanwhile all the virtue had gone from the optimistic maxim which had hitherto guided Odette through life: ‘You can do anything with men when they’re in love with you, they’re such idiots!’ a doctrine which was expressed on her face by the same tremor of an eyelid that might have accompanied such words as: ‘Don’t be frightened; he won’t break anything.’ While she waited, Odette was tormented by the thought of what one of her friends, who had been married by a man who had not lived with her for nearly so long as Odette herself had lived with Swann, and had had no child by him, and who was now in a definitely respectable position, invited to the balls at the Elysée and so forth, must think of Swann’s behaviour. A consultant more discerning than M. de Norpois would doubtless have been able to diagnose that it was this feeling of shame and humiliation that had embittered Odette, that the devilish characteristics which she displayed were no essential part of her, no irremediable evil, and so would easily have foretold what had indeed come to pass, namely that a new rule of life, the matrimonial, would put an end, with almost magic swiftness, to these painful incidents, of daily occurrence but in no sense organic. Practically everyone was surprised at the marriage, and this, in itself, is surprising. No doubt very few people understand the purely subjective nature of the phenomenon that we call love, or how it creates, so to speak, a fresh, a third, a supplementary person, distinct from the person whom the world knows by the same name, a person most of whose constituent elements are derived from ourself, the lover. And so there are very few who can regard as natural the enormous proportions that a creature comes to assume in our eyes who is not the same as the creature that they see. It would appear, none the less, that so far as Odette was concerned people might have taken into account the fact that if, indeed, she had never entirely understood Swann’s mentality, at least she was acquainted with the titles, and with all the details of his studies, so much so that the name of Vermeer was as familiar to her as that of her own dressmaker; while as for Swann himself she knew intimately those traits of character of which the rest of the world must remain ignorant or merely laugh at them, and only a mistress or a sister may gain possession of the revealing, cherished image; and so strongly are we attached to such eccentricities, even to those of them which we are most anxious to correct, that it is because a woman comes in time to acquire an indulgent, an affectionately mocking familiarity, such as we ourselves have with them, or our relatives have, that amours of long standing have something of the sweetness and strength of family affection. The bonds that unite us to another creature receive their consecration when that creature adopts the same point of view as ourself in judging one of our imperfections. And among these special traits there were others, besides, which belonged as much to his intellect as to his character, which, all the same, because they had their roots in the latter, Odette had been able more easily to discern. She complained that when Swann turned author, when he published his essays, these characteristics were not to be found in them as they were in his letters, or in his conversation, where they abounded. She urged him to give them a more prominent place. She would have liked that because it was these things that she herself preferred in him, but since she preferred them because they were the things most typical of himself, she was perhaps not wrong in wishing that they might be found in his writings. Perhaps also she thought that his work, if endowed with more vitality, so that it ultimately brought him success, might enable her also to form what at the Verdurins’ she had been taught to value above everything else in the world—a salon.
这种改变也许并不像德·诺布瓦先生声称的那样非同寻常。奥黛特不相信斯万会同意娶她；每当她暗示性地宣布镇上某个男人刚刚与他的情妇结婚时，她都会看到他僵硬地陷入冰冷的沉默，或者最多，如果她直接挑战他，问：“你不觉得吗？”他为一个为他牺牲了全部青春的女人做了一件非常好的、非常好的事情？”听到他干巴巴地回答道：“但我并没有说这有什么问题。每个人都做他自己认为正确的事情。”事实上，她几乎相信（正如他在愤怒的时候威胁的那样）他将完全离开她，因为不久前她听到有人这样说。一位女雕塑家说，“你不能对男人做的任何事感到惊讶，他们太野蛮了”，这句悲观主义格言的深刻性给她留下了深刻的印象，她把这句话运用到自己身上，并在每一个可能的场合以一种冷漠的态度重复这句话。失望似乎意味着：“毕竟，无论如何这都不是不可能的；”与此同时，所有的美德都不再是迄今为止指导奥黛特一生的乐观格言：“当男人爱上你时，你可以对他们做任何事，他们真是白痴！”她脸上的眼睑颤抖表达了这一教义，这种颤抖可能伴随着这样的话：“不要害怕；不要害怕。”他不会破坏任何东西。在等待的过程中，奥黛特一想到她的一位朋友，她的丈夫嫁给了一个男人，而这个男人几乎没有与她同居，而奥黛特本人与斯万同居的时间几乎与她同居，并且没有与他生下孩子。 ，现在他的地位绝对受人尊敬，被邀请参加爱丽舍宫的舞会等等，他一定会想到斯旺的行为。一位比德·诺布瓦先生更有洞察力的顾问无疑能够诊断出，正是这种耻辱和屈辱的感觉让奥黛特感到痛苦，她所表现出的邪恶特征并不是她的本质部分，也不是不可挽回的邪恶，因此很容易就能预言确实发生的事情，即一种新的生活规则，即婚姻，将以几乎神奇的速度结束这些每天发生但绝不是有机的痛苦事件。几乎每个人都对这桩婚姻感到惊讶，而这本身就令人惊讶。毫无疑问，很少有人理解我们称之为爱的现象的纯粹主观本质，或者说它如何创造一个新鲜的、第三个、一个补充的人，与世人所知的同名的人不同，一个人的大部分构成要素都来自我们自己，即爱人。因此，很少有人会认为，在我们眼中，与他们所看到的生物不同的生物所呈现出的巨大比例是自然的。 尽管如此，就奥黛特而言，人们可能已经考虑到了这样一个事实：如果她确实从未完全理解斯万的心态，至少她熟悉标题和所有细节维米尔的名字对她来说就像她自己的裁缝一样熟悉。至于斯万本人，她深知这些性格特征，而世界上其他人一定对此一无所知，或者只是嘲笑它们，只有情妇或姐妹才能拥有这种暴露的、珍贵的形象。我们是如此强烈地依附于这些怪癖，甚至是那些我们最急于纠正的怪癖，因为女人及时出现，获得了一种纵容的、深情的、嘲讽的熟悉感，就像我们自己对它们的那样，或者我们的亲戚有，长久以来的恋情有一些甜蜜和亲情的力量。当另一个生物在判断我们的缺陷时采用与我们相同的观点时，将我们与另一个生物联系在一起的纽带就会得到神圣化。除此之外，在这些特殊的特征中，还有一些特征既属于他的智力，也属于他的性格，尽管如此，因为它们根源于后者，奥黛特能够更容易地辨别出来。她抱怨说，当斯万成为作家时，当他发表他的文章时，这些​​特征并没有像在他的信件或谈话中那样被发现，而在他的信件或谈话中，这些特征比比皆是。她敦促他给他们一个更显赫的位置。 她会喜欢这样，因为她自己更喜欢他身上的这些东西，但既然她更喜欢这些东西，因为它们是他最典型的东西，她希望这些东西可以在他的作品中找到，也许并没有错。或许她还认为，如果赋予他的作品更多的活力，最终为他带来成功，也许她也能创办一家沙龙，她在维尔迪兰家就被教导要视世界上的一切为最重要的。

Among the people to whom this sort of marriage appeared ridiculous, people who in their own case would ask themselves, ‘What will M. de Guermantes think, what will Bréauté say when I marry Mlle, de Montmorency?’, among the people who cherished that sort of social ideal would have figured, twenty years earlier, Swann himself, the Swarm who had taken endless pains to get himself elected to the Jockey Club, and had reckoned at that time on making a brilliant marriage which, by consolidating his position, would have made him one of the most conspicuous figures in Paris. Only, the visions which a marriage like that suggests to the mind of the interested party need, like all visions, if they are not to fade away and be altogether lost, to receive sustenance from without. Your most ardent longing is to humiliate the man who has insulted you. But if you never hear of him again, having removed to some other place, your enemy will come to have no longer the slightest importance for you. If one has lost sight for a score of years of all the people on whose account one would have liked to be elected to the Jockey Club or the Institute, the prospect of becoming a member of one or other of those corporations will have ceased to tempt one. Now fully as much as retirement, ill-health or religious conversion, protracted relations with a woman will substitute fresh visions for the old. There was not on Swann’s part, when he married Odette, any renunciation of his social ambitions, for from these ambitions Odette had long ago, in the spiritual sense of the word, detached him. Besides, had he not been so detached, his marriage would have been all the more creditable. It is because they imply the sacrifice of a more or less advantageous position to a purely private happiness that, as a general rule, ‘impossible’ marriages are the happiest of all. (One cannot very well include among the ‘impossible’ marriages those that are made for money, there being no instance on record of a couple, of whom the wife or even the husband has thus sold himself, who have not sooner or later been admitted into society, if only by tradition, and on the strength of so many precedents, and so as not to have two conflicting standards.) Perhaps, on the other hand, the artistic, if not the perverse side of Swann’s nature would in any event have derived a certain amount of pleasure from coupling with himself, in one of those crossings of species such as Mendelians practise and mythology records, a creature of a different race, archduchess or prostitute, from contracting a royal alliance or from marrying beneath him. There had been but one person in all the world whose opinion he took into consideration whenever he thought of his possible marriage with Odette; that was, and from no snobbish motive, the Duchesse de Guermantes. With whom Odette, on the contrary, was but little concerned, thinking only of those people whose position was immediately above her own, rather than in so vague an empyrean. But when Swann in his daydreams saw Odette as already his wife he invariably formed a picture of the moment in which he would take her—her, and above all her daughter—to call upon the Princesse des Laumes (who was shortly, on the death of her father-in-law, to become Duchesse de Guermantes). He had no desire to introduce them anywhere else, but his heart would soften as he invented—uttering their actual words to himself—all the things that the Duchess would say of him to Odette, and Odette to the Duchess, the affection that she would shew for Gilberte, spoiling her, making him proud of his child. He enacted to himself the scene of this introduction with the same precision in each of its imaginary details that people shew when they consider how they would spend, supposing they were to win it, a lottery prize the amount of which they have arbitrarily determined. In so far as a mental picture which accompanies one of our resolutions may be said to be its motive, so it might be said that if Swann married Odette it was in order to present her and Gilberte, without anyone’s else being present, without, if need be, anyone’s else ever coming to know of it, to the Duchesse de Guermantes. We shall see how this sole social ambition that he had entertained for his wife and daughter was precisely that one the realisation of which proved to be forbidden him by a veto so absolute that Swann died in the belief that the Duchess would never possibly come to know them. We shall see also that, on the contrary, the Duchesse de Guermantes did associate with Odette and Gilberte after the death of Swann. And doubtless he would have been wiser—seeing that he could attach so much importance to so small a matter—not to have formed too dark a picture of tie future, in this connexion, but to have consoled himself with the hope that the meeting of the ladies might indeed take place when he was no longer there to enjoy it. The laborious process of causation which sooner or later will bring about every possible effect, including (consequently) those which one had believed to be most nearly impossible, naturally slow at times, is rendered slower still by our impatience (which in seeking to accelerate only obstructs it) and by our very existence, and comes to fruition only when we have ceased to desire it—have ceased, possibly, to live. Was not Swann conscious of this from his own experience, had there not been already, in his life, as it were a préfiguration of what was to happen after his death, a posthumous happiness in this marriage with this Odette whom he had passionately loved—even if she had not been pleasing to him at first sight—whom he had married when he no longer loved her, when the creature that, in Swann, had so longed to live, had so despaired of living all its life in company with Odette, when that creature was extinct?
在那些认为这种婚姻荒唐可笑的人中，有人会问自己：“当我嫁给德·蒙莫朗西小姐时，德·盖尔芒特先生会怎么想，布罗特会怎么说？”二十年前，斯旺本人就已经想到了这种社会理想，斯旺本人付出了无尽的努力才当选为赛马俱乐部成员，并在当时指望建立一个辉煌的婚姻，通过巩固他的地位，将使他成为巴黎最引人注目的人物之一。只是，像这样的婚姻向有关各方的心灵暗示的愿景需要像所有愿景一样，如果它们不想消失并完全消失，就需要从外部获得滋养。你最热切的渴望就是羞辱侮辱过你的人。但如果你搬到了其他地方，再也没有听说过他，那么你的敌人对你来说就不再有丝毫的重要性了。如果一个人在二十年的时间里看不到那些他希望被选入赛马会或学院的人，那么成为这些公司中的一个或另一个公司的成员的前景将不再具有诱惑力。一。现在，与退休、健康状况不佳或宗教信仰皈依一样，与女性的长期关系将取代旧的新愿景。斯旺在与奥黛特结婚时并没有放弃他的社会野心，因为奥黛特很久以前就从精神意义上将他与这些野心分离了。再说，如果他不是那么冷漠，他的婚姻就会更加值得信赖。 因为它们意味着为了纯粹的私人幸福而牺牲或多或少的有利地位，所以一般来说，“不可能”的婚姻是最幸福的。 （人们不能很好地将那些为了金钱而结婚的婚姻包括在“不可能的”婚姻中，没有任何记录表明，有一对夫妇的妻子甚至丈夫因此出卖了自己，而迟早没有被承认）进入社会，如果只是通过传统，并依靠如此多的先例，以免出现两个相互冲突的标准。）另一方面，也许斯旺本性的艺术性，即使不是反常的一面，无论如何也会如此。在孟德尔实践和神话记录等物种交叉中，他们从与自己的结合中获得了一定的快乐，与不同种族的生物，大公夫人或妓女，通过缔结皇室联盟或与低于他的人结婚。全世界只有一个人，每当他想到自己可能与奥黛特结婚时，他都会考虑这个人的意见。那就是盖尔芒特公爵夫人，并非出于势利的动机。相反，奥黛特却不太关心他们，只考虑那些地位直接高于她的人，而不是处于如此模糊的至高无上的人。但是，当斯万在白日梦中看到奥黛特已经成为他的妻子时，他总是脑海中浮现出这样的画面：他将带她——她，尤其是她的女儿——去拜访洛姆斯公主（她不久就去世了）她的岳父，成为盖尔芒特公爵夫人）。 他不想把他们介绍到其他地方，但当他发明——说出他们对自己说的话——公爵夫人会对奥黛特说起他、奥黛特对公爵夫人说起她所表达的感情时，他的心会软化。为希尔贝特表演，宠坏她，让他为自己的孩子感到骄傲。他为自己呈现了这段引言的场景，每一个想象的细节都精确无误，就像人们在考虑如何花钱时所展示的那样，假设他们赢得了一笔他们任意确定的彩票奖金。就我们的一项决议所伴随的一幅心理图景而言，可以说是其动机，所以可以说，如果斯旺娶了奥黛特，那是为了在没有其他人在场的情况下展示她和吉尔贝特，如果没有，如果盖尔芒特公爵夫人，任何其他人都会知道这件事。我们将看到，他为妻子和女儿所抱有的唯一的社会野心，恰恰是他的实现被证明被绝对否决所禁止的，以至于斯旺死时相信公爵夫人永远不会知道这一点。他们。我们还将看到，相反，盖尔芒特公爵夫人在斯旺死后确实与奥黛特和吉尔贝特交往过。毫无疑问，他会更明智——看到他对这么小的事情如此重视——在这方面，不要对未来形成过于黑暗的图景，而是安慰自己，希望会议能够实现。当他不再在那里享受的时候，女士们确实可能会去。 因果关系的艰苦过程迟早会带来每一种可能的结果，包括（结果）那些人们认为几乎不可能的结果，有时自然缓慢，由于我们的不耐烦（在寻求加速的过程中只寻求加速）而变得更慢。阻碍它）并且通过我们的存在而实现，只有当我们不再渴望它——可能已经停止生活时，它才会实现。斯万不是从自己的经历中意识到这一点吗？在他的一生中，与他深爱的奥黛特的婚姻中，已经有一种死后的幸福，因为这是他死后将要发生的事情的预兆——即使她一见钟情，他并不喜欢她——当他不再爱她时，当斯万的那个生物如此渴望生活时，他已经对与奥黛特共度一生感到绝望时，他就娶了她。 ，这种生物是什么时候灭绝的？

I began next to speak of the Comte de Paris, to ask whether he was not one of Swann’s friends, for I was afraid lest the conversation should drift away from him. ‘Why, yes!’ replied M. de Norpois, turning towards me and fixing upon my modest person the azure gaze in which floated, as in their vital element, his immense capacity for work and his power of assimilation. And ‘Upon my word,’ he added, once more addressing my father, ‘I do not think that I shall be overstepping the bounds of the respect which I have always professed for the Prince (although without, you understand, maintaining any personal relations with him, which would inevitably compromise my position, unofficial as that may be), if I tell you of a little episode which is not without point; no more than four years ago, at a small railway station in one of the countries of Central Europe, the Prince happened to set eyes on Mme. Swann. Naturally, none of his circle ventured to ask his Royal Highness what he thought of her. That would not have been seemly. But when her name came up by chance in conversation, by certain signs—imperceptible, if you like, but quite unmistakable—the Prince appeared willing enough to let it be understood that his impression of her had, in a word, been far from unfavourable.’
接下来我开始谈论巴黎伯爵，询问他是否是斯旺的朋友之一，因为我担心谈话会从他身上消失。 “啊，是的！”德·诺布瓦先生回答道，他转向我，用蔚蓝的目光注视着我这个谦虚的人，目光中浮现着他巨大的工作能力和同化能力，就像他们的生命要素一样。 “据我所知，”他再次对我的父亲说道，“我认为我不会超越我一直以来对王子所表示的尊重（尽管，你明白，没有维持任何个人关系）如果我告诉你一个并非毫无意义的小插曲，这将不可避免地损害我的立场，尽管这可能是非官方的。不到四年前，在中欧某个国家的一个小火车站，亲王碰巧见到了夫人。斯旺。当然，他的圈子里没有一个人敢问太子殿下对她的看法。那不太合适。但是，当她的名字在谈话中偶然出现时，通过某些迹象——如果你愿意的话，是难以察觉的，但很明显——王子似乎很愿意让人们理解，总而言之，他对她的印象远非不利。 .'

‘But there could have been no possibility, surely, of her being presented to the Comte de Paris?’ inquired my father.
“但是，肯定不可能把她介绍给巴黎伯爵吧？”我父亲问道。

‘Well, we don’t know; with Princes one never does know,’ replied M. de Norpois. ‘The most exalted, those who know best how to secure what is due to them, are as often as not the last to let themselves be embarrassed by the decrees of popular opinion, even by those for which there is most justification, especially when it is a question of their rewarding a personal attachment to themselves. Now it is certain that the Comte de Paris has always most graciously recognised the devotion of Swann, who is, for that matter, a man of character, in spite of it all.’
“好吧，我们不知道；但我们不知道。”德·诺普瓦先生回答说：“对于王子们，人们永远不知道。” “那些最尊贵的人，那些最知道如何确保自己应得的东西的人，往往是最后一个让自己因大众舆论的法令而感到尴尬的人，即使是那些最有正当理由的法令，尤其是当它是他们奖励对自己的个人依恋的问题。现在可以肯定的是，巴黎伯爵一直非常仁慈地认可斯旺的奉献精神，就这一点而言，尽管如此，他还是一个有性格的人。

‘And what was your own impression, your Excellency? Do tell us!’ my mother asked, from politeness as well as from curiosity.
“阁下，您自己的印象如何？请告诉我们吧！”母亲出于礼貌和好奇问道。

All the energy of the old connoisseur broke through the habitual moderation of his speech as he answered: ‘Quite excellent!’
老鉴赏家浑身的劲儿都突破了说话惯有的节制，回答道：“非常好！”

And knowing that the admission that a strong impression has been made on one by a woman takes its place, provided that one makes it in a playful tone, in a certain category of the art of conversation that is highly appreciated, he broke into a little laugh that lasted for several seconds, moistening the old diplomat’s blue eyes and making his nostrils, with their network of tiny scarlet veins, quiver. ‘She is altogether charming!’
他知道，承认女人给一个人留下了深刻的印象，如果一个人以一种俏皮的语气，在某种受到高度赞赏的谈话艺术中承认这一点，他就闯入了一点。笑声持续了几秒钟，湿润了老外交官的蓝眼睛，让他那布满猩红色细血管的鼻孔颤抖起来。 “她真是太迷人了！”

‘Was there a writer of the name of Bergotte at this dinner, sir?’ I asked timidly, still trying to keep the conversation to the subject of the Swanns.
“先生，这次晚宴上有一位名叫贝戈特的作家吗？”我胆怯地问道，仍然试图把话题引向斯旺一家。

‘Yes, Bergotte was there,’ replied M. de Norpois, inclining his head courteously towards me, as though in his desire to be pleasant to my father he attached to everything connected with him a real importance, even to the questions of a boy of my age who was not accustomed to see such politeness shewn to him by persons of his. ‘Do you know him?’ he went on, fastening on me that clear gaze, the penetration of which had won the praise of Bismarck.
“是的，贝戈特在那儿，”德·诺普瓦先生回答道，他礼貌地向我倾斜了头，仿佛他希望让我父亲感到愉快，他非常重视与他有关的一切，甚至对一个男孩的问题也是如此。我这个年纪的人不习惯看到他的人对他表现出如此礼貌。 “你认识他吗？”他继续说道，用那双清澈的目光注视着我，其洞察力赢得了俾斯麦的称赞。

‘My son does not know him, but he admires his work immensely,’ my mother explained.
“我的儿子不认识他，但他非常欣赏他的作品，”我母亲解释道。

‘Good heavens!’ exclaimed M. de Norpois, inspiring me with doubts of my own intelligence far more serious than those that ordinarily distracted me, when I saw that what I valued a thousand thousand times more than myself, what I regarded as the most exalted thing in the world, was for him at the very foot of the scale of admiration. ‘I do not share your son’s point of view. Bergotte is what I call a flute-player: one must admit that he plays on it very agreeably, although with a great deal of mannerism, of affectation. But when all is said, it is no more than that, and that is nothing very great. Nowhere does one find in his enervated writings anything that could be called construction. No action—or very little—but above all no range. His books fail at the foundation, or rather they have no foundation at all. At a time like the present, when the ever-increasing complexity of life leaves one scarcely a moment for reading, when the map of Europe has undergone radical alterations, and is on the eve, very probably, of undergoing others more drastic still, when so many new and threatening problems are arising on every side, you will allow me to suggest that one is entitled to ask that a writer should be something else than a fine intellect which makes us forget, amid otiose and byzantine discussions of the merits of pure form, that we may be overwhelmed at any moment by a double tide of barbarians, those from without and those from within our borders. I am aware that this is a blasphemy against the sacrosanct school of what these gentlemen term ‘Art for Art’s sake,’ but at this period of history there are tasks more urgent than the manipulation of words in a harmonious manner. Not that Bergotte’s manner is not now and then quite attractive. I have no fault to find with that, but taken as a whole, it is all very precious, very thin, and has very little virility. I can now understand more easily, when I bear in mind your altogether excessive regard for Bergotte, the few lines that you shewed me just now, which it would have been unfair to you not to overlook, since you yourself told me, in all simplicity, that they were merely a childish scribbling.’ (I had, indeed, said so, but I did not think anything of the sort.) ‘For every sin there is forgiveness, and especially for the sins of youth. After all, others as well as yourself have such sins upon their conscience, and you are not the only one who has believed himself to be a poet in his day. But one can see in what you have shewn me the evil influence of Bergotte. You will not, of course, be surprised when I say that there was in it none of his good qualities, since he is a past-master in the art—incidentally quite superficial—of handling a certain style of which, at your age, you cannot have acquired even the rudiments. But already there is the same fault, that paradox of stringing together fine-sounding words and only afterwards troubling about what they mean. That is putting the cart before the horse, even in Bergotte’s books. All those Chinese puzzles of form, all these deliquescent mandarin subtleties seem to me to be quite futile. Given a few fireworks, let off prettily enough by an author, and up goes the shout of genius. Works of genius are not so common as all that! Bergotte cannot place to his credit—does not carry in his baggage, if I may use the expression—a single novel that is at all lofty in its conception, any of those books which one keeps in a special corner of one’s library. I do not discover one such in the whole of his work. But that does not exclude the fact that, with him, the work is infinitely superior to the author. Ah! there is a man who justifies the wit who insisted that one ought never to know an author except through his books. It would be impossible to imagine an individual who corresponded less to his—more pretentious, more pompous, less fitted for human society. Vulgar at some moments, at others talking like a book, and not even like one of his own, but like a boring book, which his, to do them justice, are not—such is your Bergotte. He has the most confused mind, alembicated, what our ancestors called a diseur de phébus, and he makes the things that he says even more unpleasant by the manner in which he says them. I forget for the moment whether it is Loménie or Sainte-Beuve who tells us that Vigny repelled people by the same eccentricity. But Bergotte has never given us a Cinq-Mars, or a Cachet Rouge, certain pages of which are regular anthology pieces.’
“天哪！”德·诺普瓦先生惊呼道，当我看到我所看重的东西比我自己贵一千倍，我认为最重要的东西时，我对自己的智力的怀疑比那些通常让我分心的东西要严重得多。世界上崇高的东西，对他来说是令人钦佩的。 “我不同意你儿子的观点。贝戈特是我所说的长笛演奏家：我们必须承认，他的演奏非常愉快，尽管有很多矫揉造作和矫揉造作的感觉。但归根结底，也仅此而已，而且没什么了不起。在他苍白无力的著作中，我们找不到任何可以称为建构的东西。没有行动——或者很少行动——但最重要的是没有范围。他的书在基础上失败了，或者更确切地说，它们根本没有基础。在像现在这样的时代，当生活的日益复杂性使人几乎没有时间阅读时，当欧洲的地图经历了根本性的改变，并且很可能即将经历其他更剧烈的改变时，当如此多的新的、具有威胁性的问题在各个方面都出现了，你会允许我建议，人们有权要求作家不应该是一个具有高智商的人，这让我们在关于纯粹的优点的冗长而繁琐的讨论中忘记了。形式，使我们随时可能被来自国外和境内的野蛮人的双重浪潮所淹没。我知道这是对这些先生所说的“为艺术而艺术”的神圣学派的亵渎，但在这段历史时期，有比以和谐的方式操纵文字更紧迫的任务。这并不是说贝戈特的举止有时不那么有吸引力。 我觉得这并没有什么毛病，但从整体来看，它非常珍贵，非常单薄，而且没有什么阳刚之气。现在，当我记住你对贝戈特的过度尊重时，我现在可以更容易地理解你刚才向我展示的几行诗，如果你不忽略这些诗句，那对你来说是不公平的，因为你自己简单地告诉了我，它们只是幼稚的涂鸦。”（我确实这么说过，但我不这么认为。）“每一种罪孽都可以得到宽恕，特别是对于年轻人的罪孽。毕竟，其他人和你自己都在良心上犯下了这样的罪过，而且你并不是唯一一个相信自己是那个时代的诗人的人。但从你向我展示的内容中可以看出贝戈特的邪恶影响。当然，当我说其中没有他的优点时，你不会感到惊讶，因为他是处理某种风格的艺术大师（顺便说一句，相当肤浅），在你这个年纪，你不可能连最基本的知识都掌握不了。但同样的错误已经存在，即把听起来好听的词串在一起，然后才去思考它们的含义的悖论。即使在贝戈特的书中，这也是本末倒置。在我看来，所有这些中国式的形式谜题、所有这些容易潮解的普通话的微妙之处似乎都是徒劳的。只要有几场烟花，由一位作家放得足够漂亮，天才的呼喊就会响起。天才的作品并不那么常见！贝戈特不能将他的功劳归于他的功劳——如果我可以用这样的说法的话——一本构思崇高的小说，任何一本放在图书馆特殊角落里的书。我在他的全部作品中没有发现这样的一个。 但这并不排除这样一个事实：有了他，作品就无限优于作者。啊!有一个人为他的机智辩护，他坚持认为，除非通过他的书，否则永远不应该了解一位作家。很难想象有一个人比他更自命不凡，更自命不凡，更不适合人类社会。有时粗俗，有时像一本书一样说话，甚至不像他自己的书，而是像一本无聊的书，公平地说，他的书不是——这就是你的贝戈特。他的头脑最混乱，我们的祖先称之为“diseur de phébus”，他说话的方式使他所说的话变得更加令人不快。我暂时忘记了是洛梅尼还是圣伯夫告诉我们维尼也因为同样的怪癖而排斥人们。但贝戈特从未给过我们《五战神》或《胭脂红》，其中某些页面是常规选集。’

Paralysed by what M. de Norpois had just said to me with regard to the fragment which I had submitted to him, and remembering at the same time the difficulties that I experienced when I attempted to write an essay or merely to devote myself to serious thought, I felt conscious once again of my intellectual nullity and that I was not born for a literary life. Doubtless in the old days at Combray certain impressions of a very humble order, or a few pages of Bergotte used to plunge me into a state of musing which had appeared to me to be of great value. But this state was what my poem in prose reflected; there could be no doubt that M. de Norpois had at once grasped and had seen through the fallacy of what I had discovered to be beautiful simply by a mirage that must be entirely false since the Ambassador had not been taken in by it. He had shewn me, on the other hand, what an infinitely unimportant place was mine when I was judged from outside, objectively, by the best-disposed and most intelligent of experts. I felt myself to be struck speechless, overwhelmed; and my mind, like a fluid which is without dimensions save those of the vessel that is provided for it, just as it had been expanded a moment ago so as to fill all the vast capacity of genius, contracted now, was entirely contained in the straitened mediocrity in which M. de Norpois had of a sudden enclosed and sealed it.
德·诺普瓦先生刚才对我说的关于我提交给他的片段的话让我感到震惊，同时还记得当我试图写一篇文章或仅仅致力于认真思考时所经历的困难，我再次意识到我的知识分子的空虚，我生来就不是为了文学生活。毫无疑问，过去在贡布雷时，对一个非常卑微的秩序的某些印象，或者贝戈特的几页书，常常使我陷入一种对我来说似乎具有巨大价值的沉思状态。但这种状态正是我的散文诗所反映的；毫无疑问，德·诺普瓦先生立即领会并看穿了我所发现的美丽事物的谬误，这只是一个海市蜃楼，这一定是完全错误的，因为大使并没有被它欺骗。另一方面，他向我展示了，当我被最友善、最聪明的专家从外部、客观地评判时，我的地位是多么的不重要。我感到自己无言以对，不知所措；我的思想，就像一种没有尺寸的液体，除了为它提供的容器之外，就像它刚才被扩展以填充现在收缩的天才的所有巨大容量一样，完全包含在德·诺普瓦先生突然把这种平庸的生活封闭起来。

‘Our first introduction—I speak of Bergotte and myself——‘ he resumed, turning to my father, ‘was somewhat beset with thorns (which is, after all, only another way of saying that it was not lacking in points). Bergotte—some years ago, now—paid a visit to Vienna while I was Ambassador there; he was presented to me by the Princess Metternich, came and wrote his name, and expected to be asked to the Embassy. Now, being in a foreign country as the Representative of France, to which he has after all done some honour by his writings, to a certain extent (let us say, to be quite accurate, to a very slight extent), I was prepared to set aside the unfavourable opinion that I hold of his private life. But he was not travelling alone, and he actually let it be understood that he was not to be invited without his companion. I trust that I am no more of a prude than most men, and, being a bachelor, I was perhaps in a position to throw open the doors of the Embassy a little wider than if I had been married and the father of a family. Nevertheless, I must admit that there are depths of degradation to which I should hesitate to descend, while these are rendered more repulsive still by the tone, not moral, merely—let us be quite frank and say moralising,—that Bergotte takes up in his books, where one finds nothing but perpetual and, between ourselves, somewhat wearisome analyses, torturing scruples, morbid remorse, and all for the merest peccadilloes, the most trivial naughtinesses (as one knows from one’s own experience), while all the time he is shewing such an utter lack of conscience and so much cynicism in his private life. To cut a long story short, I evaded the responsibility, the Princess returned to the charge, but without success. So that I do not suppose that I appear exactly in the odour of sanctity to the gentleman, and I am not sure how far he appreciated Swann’s kindness in inviting him and myself on the same evening. Unless of course it was he who asked for the invitation. One can never tell, for really he is not normal. Indeed that is his sole excuse.’
“我们的第一次介绍——我指的是贝戈特和我自己——”他转向我父亲继续说道，“有点荆棘丛生（毕竟，这只是说它不缺乏要点的另一种方式）。贝戈特——几年前，现在——在我担任维也纳大使期间访问了维也纳。梅特涅公主将他介绍给我，并写下了他的名字，预计会被邀请去大使馆。现在，身在异国他乡，作为法国代表，他毕竟通过他的著作在一定程度上（让我们说，相当准确，在很小的程度上）为法国做出了一些荣誉，我已经做好了准备搁置我对他私生活的不利看法。但他并不是独自旅行，而且他实际上让大家明白，如果没有同伴，他是不会被邀请的。我相信我并不比大多数男人更正经，而且，作为一个单身汉，我也许能够比我已婚和一个家庭的父亲更敞开大使馆的大门。尽管如此，我必须承认，我应该犹豫是否要陷入堕落的深渊，而贝戈特在书中所采取的语气，而不是道德的，仅仅是——让我们非常坦率地说，说教——使这些更加令人厌恶。在他的书中，人们除了永恒的、在我们之间有些令人厌烦的分析、折磨人的顾虑、病态的悔恨，以及所有最微不足道的小过失、最微不足道的顽皮行为（正如人们从自己的经历中知道的那样）之外，什么也没有，而他一直在在他的私生活中表现出如此完全缺乏良心和如此愤世嫉俗。总而言之，我逃避了责任，公主又回来冲锋，但没有成功。 因此，我不认为我在那位绅士面前完全具有神圣的气息，而且我不确定他对斯万在同一晚邀请他和我的好意有多大的感激之情。当然，除非是他主动提出邀请的。人们永远无法分辨，因为他确实不正常。事实上，这是他唯一的借口。’

‘And was Mme. Swann’s daughter at the dinner?’ I asked M. de Norpois, taking advantage, to put this question, of a moment in which, as we all moved towards the drawing-room, I could more easily conceal my emotion than would have been possible at table, where I was held fast in the glare of the lamplight.
“还有夫人。” “斯万的女儿来参加晚宴吗？”我问德·诺普瓦先生，趁着我们大家都走向客厅的那一刻，我可以更容易地隐藏自己的情绪。在餐桌旁，我被牢牢地固定在耀眼的灯光下。

M. de Norpois appeared to be trying for a moment to remember; then: ‘Yes, you mean a young person of fourteen or fifteen? Yes, of course, I remember now that she was introduced to me before dinner as the daughter of our Amphitryon. I may tell you that I saw but little of her; she retired to bed early. Or else she went out to see a friend—I forget. But I can see that you are very intimate with the Swann household.’
德·诺普瓦先生似乎在努力回想片刻；然后：‘是的，你指的是十四岁或十五岁的年轻人？是的，当然，我现在记得，晚餐前有人向我介绍她是我们安菲特律翁的女儿。我可以告诉你，我很少见到她。她很早就上床睡觉了。或者她出去见朋友了——我忘了​​。但我看得出你和斯旺一家非常亲密。”

‘I play with Mlle. Swann in the Champs-Elysées, and she is delightful.’
“我和Mlle一起玩。斯旺在香榭丽舍大街，她很令人愉快。”

‘Oh! so that is it, is it? But I assure you, I thought her charming. I must confess to you, however, that I do not believe that she will ever be anything like her mother, if I may say as much without wounding you in a vital spot.’
'哦！就是这样，是吗？但我向你保证，我认为她很迷人。然而，我必须向你承认，如果我可以这么说而不伤害你的要害的话，我不相信她会像她母亲一样。

‘I prefer Mlle. Swann’s face, but I admire her mother, too, enormously; I go for walks in the Bois simply in the hope of seeing her pass.’
“我更喜欢Mlle。”斯旺的脸，但我也非常钦佩她的母亲；我去森林里散步只是希望能看到她经过。

‘Ah! But I must tell them that; they will be highly flattered.’
'啊！但我必须告诉他们；他们会非常受宠若惊。

While he was uttering these words, and for a few seconds after he had uttered them, M. de Norpois was still in the same position as anyone else who, hearing me speak of Swann as an intelligent man, of his family as respectable stockbrokers, of his house as a fine house, imagined that I would speak just as readily of another man equally intelligent, of other stockbrokers equally respectable, of another house equally fine; it was the moment in which a sane man who is talking to a lunatic has not yet perceived that his companion is mad. M. de Norpois knew that there was nothing unnatural in the pleasure which one derived from looking at pretty women, that it was a social convention, when anyone spoke to you of a pretty woman with any fervour, to pretend to think that he was in love with her, and to promise to further his designs. But in saying that he would speak of me to Gilberte and her mother (which would enable me, like an Olympian deity who has taken on the fluidity of a breath of wind, or rather the aspect of the old greybeard whose form Minerva borrows, to penetrate, myself, unseen, into Mme. Swann’s drawing-room, to attract her attention, to occupy her thoughts, to arouse her gratitude for my admiration, to appear before her as the friend of an important person, to seem to her worthy to be invited by her in the future and to enter into the intimate life of her family), this important person who was going to make use, in my interests, of the great influence which he must have with Mme. Swann inspired in me suddenly an affection so compelling that I had difficulty in restraining myself from kissing his gentle hands, white and crumpled, which looked as though they had been left lying too long in water. I even sketched in the air an outline of that impulsive movement, but this I supposed that I alone had observed. For it is difficult for any of us to calculate exactly on what scale his words or his gestures are apparent to others. Partly from the fear of exaggerating our own importance, and also because we enlarge to enormous proportions the field over which the impressions formed by other people in the course of their lives are obliged to extend, we imagine that the accessories of our speech and attitudes scarcely penetrate the consciousness, still less remain in the memory of those with whom we converse, It is, we may suppose, to a prompting of this sort that criminals yield when they ‘touch up’ the wording of a statement already made, thinking that the new variant cannot be confronted with any existing version. But it is quite possible that, even in what concerns the millennial existence of the human race, the philosophy of the journalist, according to which everything is destined to oblivion, is less true than a contrary philosophy which would predict the conservation of everything. In the same newspaper in which the moralist of the ‘Paris column’ says to us of an event, of a work of art, all the more forcibly of a singer who has enjoyed her ‘crowded hour’: ‘Who will remember this in ten years’ time?’ overleaf does not the report of the Académie des Inscriptions speak often of a fact, in itself of smaller importance, of a poem of little merit, which dates from the epoch of the Pharaohs and is now known again in its entirety? Is it not, perhaps, just the same in our brief life on earth? And yet, some years later, in a house in which M. de Norpois, who was also calling there, had seemed to me the most solid support that I could hope to find, because he was the friend of my father, indulgent, inclined to wish us all well, and besides, by his profession and upbringing, trained to discretion, when, after the Ambassador had gone, I was told that he had alluded to an evening long ago when he had seen the moment in which I was just going to kiss his hands, not only did I colour up to the roots of my hair but I was stupefied to learn how different from all that I had believed were not only the manner in which M. de Norpois spoke of me but also the constituents of his memory: this tittle-tattle enlightened me as to the incalculable proportions of absence and presence of mind, of recollection and forgetfulness which go to form the human intelligence; and I was as marvellously surprised as on the day on which I read for the first time, in one of Maspero’s books, that we had an exact list of the sportsmen whom Assurbanipal used to invite to his hunts, a thousand years before the Birth of Christ.
当他说这些话的时候，以及说完之后的几秒钟，德·诺普瓦先生仍然处于和其他人一样的境地，听我说斯万是一个聪明的人，说他的家人是令人尊敬的股票经纪人，他的房子是一栋好房子，想象着我会同样容易地谈论另一个同样聪明的人，同样受人尊敬的其他股票经纪人，另一座同样好的房子；在这个时刻，一个神智正常的人在与一个疯子交谈时，还没有意识到他的同伴已经疯了。德·诺布瓦先生知道，人们从观看漂亮女人中获得的快乐并没有什么不自然的，这是一种社会惯例，当有人热情地与你谈论一位漂亮女人时，假装认为他在爱她，并承诺进一步推进他的设计。但当他说他会向希尔贝特和她的母亲谈论我时（这将使我能够像奥林匹亚神祇一样，具有风的流动性，或者更确切地说，像密涅瓦借用的老灰胡子的外貌），我自己偷偷地走进斯万夫人的客厅，吸引她的注意，占据她的心思，激起她对我的钦佩的感激之情，以一个重要人物的朋友的身份出现在她面前，让她觉得我值得将来会受到她的邀请，并进入她家庭的亲密生活），这位重要人物为了我的利益，将利用他对夫人的巨大影响力。斯旺突然在我心中激发了一种如此强烈的感情，使我难以克制自己亲吻他温柔的双手，苍白而皱巴巴的，看起来好像它们在水中浸泡太久了。 我什至在空中勾画出那冲动动作的轮廓，但我想这是我一个人观察到的。因为我们中的任何人都很难准确地计算出他的言语或手势对其他人来说有多大程度的明显性。部分是因为害怕夸大我们自己的重要性，也因为我们极大地扩大了他人在生活过程中形成的印象所必须延伸的范围，我们想象我们的言语和态度的附属品几乎不会影响我们的生活。渗透到意识中，更不用说留在与我们交谈的人的记忆中了，我们可以假设，当犯罪分子“修改”已经发表的声明的措辞时，他们就会屈服于这种提示，认为新变体无法与任何现有版本对抗。但很可能的是，即使在涉及人类千年存在的问题上，记者的哲学（根据这种哲学，一切都注定会被遗忘）也不像预测一切都会守恒的相反哲学那样真实。在同一份报纸上，《巴黎专栏》的道德家向我们讲述了一件事件、一件艺术品，尤其是一位享受了“拥挤时刻”的歌手：“谁会在十年后记住这一点？”铭文学院的报告背面不是经常提到这样一个事实，即一首毫无价值的诗，其本身的重要性较小，其历史可以追溯到法老时代，现在又被完整地了解？我们在地球上短暂的一生也许不也是这样吗？然而，几年后，在一所房子里，M. 德·诺普瓦也打电话到那里，对我来说，他似乎是我能找到的最坚实的支持，因为他是我父亲的朋友，宽容，倾向于祝我们一切顺利，此外，他的职业和教养，训练有素的谨慎，当大使走后，我被告知他提到了很久以前的一个晚上，当时他看到了我正要亲吻他的手的那一刻，我不仅把颜色涂到了但我惊讶地发现，德·诺普瓦先生谈论我的方式和他记忆的构成部分都与我所相信的一切有多么不同：这些闲言碎语启发了我，使我意识到了不可估量的后果。形成人类智力的心不在焉和清醒、记忆和健忘的比例；我感到非常惊讶，就像我第一次在马斯佩罗的一本书中读到的那天一样，我们有一份阿苏巴尼拔曾经邀请参加他的狩猎的运动员的确切名单，那是在上帝诞生之前一千年。基督。

‘Oh, sir,’ I assured M. de Norpois, when he told me that he would inform Gilberte and her mother how much I admired them, ‘if you would do that, if you would speak of me to Mme. Swann, my whole life would not be long enough for me to prove my gratitude, and that life would be all at your service. But I feel bound to point out to you that I do not know Mme. Swann, and that I have never been introduced to her.’
“噢，先生，”当德·诺普瓦先生告诉我，他会告诉希尔贝特和她母亲我是多么钦佩他们时，我向他们保证，“如果您愿意这样做，如果您愿意向希尔贝特夫人谈论我的话。”斯旺，我的一生都不足以表达我的感激之情，而我的一生都会为您服务。但我必须向您指出，我不认识女士。斯旺，而且我从来没有被介绍给她。

I had added these last words from a scruple of conscience, and so as not to appear to be boasting of an acquaintance which I did not possess. But while I was uttering them I felt that they were already superfluous, for from the beginning of my speech of thanks, with its chilling ardour, I had seen flitting across the face of the Ambassador an expression of hesitation and dissatisfaction, and in his eyes that vertical, narrow, slanting look (like, in the drawing of a solid body in perspective, the receding line of one of its surfaces), that look which one addresses to the invisible audience whom one has within oneself at the moment when one is saying something that one’s other audience, the person whom one has been addressing—myself, in this instance—is not meant to hear. I realised in a flash that these phrases which I had pronounced, which, feeble as they were when measured against the flood of gratitude that was coursing through me, had seemed to me bound to touch M. de Norpois and to confirm his decision upon an intervention which would have given him so little trouble and me so much joy, were perhaps (out of all those that could have been chosen, with diabolical malice, by persons anxious to do me harm) the only ones that could result in making him abandon his intention. Indeed, when he heard me speak, just as at the moment when a stranger with whom we have been exchanging—quite pleasantly—our impressions, which we might suppose to be similar to his, of the passers-by, whom we have agreed in regarding as vulgar, reveals suddenly the pathological abyss that divides him from us by adding carelessly, as he runs his hand over his pocket: ‘What a pity, I haven’t got my revolver here; I could have picked off the lot!’ M. de Norpois, who knew that nothing was less costly or more easy than to be commended to Mme. Swann and taken to her house, and saw that to me, on the contrary, such favours bore so high a price and were consequently, no doubt, of great difficulty, thought that the desire, apparently normal, which I had expressed must cloak some different thought, some suspect intention, some pre-existent fault, on account of which, in the certainty of displeasing Mme. Swann, no one hitherto had been willing to undertake the responsibility for conveying a message to her from me. And I understood that this office was one which he would never discharge, that he might see Mme. Swann daily, for years to come, without ever mentioning my name. He did indeed ask her, a few days later, for some information which I required, and charged my father to convey it to me. But he had not thought it his duty to tell her at whose instance he was inquiring. So she would never discover that I knew M. de Norpois and that I hoped so greatly to be asked to her house; and this was perhaps a less misfortune than I supposed. For the second of these discoveries would probably not have added much to the efficacy, in any event uncertain, of the first. In Odette the idea of her own life and of her home awakened no mysterious disturbance; a person who knew her, who came to see her, did not seem to her a fabulous creature such as he seemed to me who would have flung a stone through Swann’s windows if I could have written upon it that I knew M. de Norpois; I was convinced that such a message, even when transmitted in so brutal a fashion, would have done far more to exalt me in the eyes of the lady of the house than it would have prejudiced her against me. But even if I had been capable of understanding that the mission which M. de Norpois did not perform must have remained futile, nay, more than that, might even have damaged my credit with the Swanns, I should not have had the courage, had he shewn himself consenting, to release the Ambassador from it, and to renounce the pleasure—however fatal its consequences might prove—of feeling that my name and my person were thus brought for a moment into Gilberte’s presence, in her unknown life and home.
我是出于良心的顾虑才加上这些最后的话，以免显得我在夸耀我并不认识的人。但当我说这些话的时候，我觉得这些话已经是多余的了，因为从我致谢致辞的一开始，我就看到大使脸上闪过一丝犹豫和不满的表情，他的眼神里充满了令人不寒而栗的热情。那种垂直的、狭窄的、倾斜的外观（就像在透视图中画一个实体时，它的一个表面的后退线），一种当一个人在看时向自己内心的隐形观众发出的那种外观。说出其他听众，即对方（在本例中为我自己）不应该听到的话。我立刻意识到，我所说的这些话，虽然与我内心涌动的感激之情相比，显得微不足道，但在我看来，这些话一定会触动德·诺普瓦先生，并确认他的决定。这种干预本来不会给他带来那么大的麻烦，而给我带来那么多的快乐，但也许是（在那些急于伤害我的人可能怀着恶魔般的恶意而选择的所有干预措施中）唯一可能导致他放弃的干预措施。他的意图。确实，当他听到我说话时，就像我们一直在与一个陌生人——相当愉快地——交换我们对路人的印象一样，我们可能认为这些印象与他的相似，我们已经同意了当他把手放在口袋里时，他不经意地加上一句：“真遗憾，我这里没有带我的左轮手枪；”我本来可以把很多东西都拿走的！”M. 德·诺普瓦知道，没有什么比得到夫人的赞扬更便宜或更容易的了。斯旺女士被带到她家，看到对我来说，相反，这样的恩惠付出了如此高的代价，因此毫无疑问是巨大的困难，认为我所表达的显然是正常的愿望必须掩盖一些不同的想法，一些可疑的意图，一些预先存在的错误，因此，肯定会令夫人不高兴。斯旺，迄今为止，还没有人愿意承担起向她传达我的信息的责任。我知道他永远不会辞去这个职位，这样他就可以见到夫人。在接下来的几年里，斯旺每天都在看我，从来没有提到过我的名字。几天后，他确实向她询问了我需要的一些信息，并要求我父亲将其转达给我。但他并不认为自己有责任告诉她他是在向谁询问。所以她永远不会发现我认识德·诺普瓦先生，而且我非常希望被邀请到她家去。这或许并没有我想象的那么不幸。因为无论如何不确定，第二个发现可能不会给第一个发现带来太大的功效。奥黛特对于自己的生活和家庭的想法并没有引起神秘的不安；一个认识她、来看望她的人，在她看来并不是一个神话般的人物，而在我看来，如果我能在石头上写下我认识德·诺普瓦先生的话，他就会把一块石头扔进斯万的窗户。我确信，这样的信息，即使以如此残酷的方式传达，在女主人眼中对我的尊崇远远超过了她对我的偏见。 但即使我能够理解德·诺普瓦先生没有履行的使命一定是徒劳的，不仅如此，甚至可能损害我在斯万家的信誉，我也不会有勇气，他表示同意，将大使从这件事中释放出来，并放弃那种感觉，即我的名字和我的人暂时出现在希尔贝特未知的生活和家中的快乐——无论其后果可能是致命的。

After M. de Norpois had gone my father cast an eye over the evening paper; I dreamed once more of Berma. The pleasure which I had found in listening to her required to be made complete, all the more because it had fallen far short of what I had promised myself; and so it at once assimilated everything that was capable of giving it nourishment, those merits, for uir stance, which M. de Norpois had admitted that Berma possessed, and which my mind had absorbed at one draught, like a dry lawn when water is poured on it. Then my father handed me the newspaper, pointing me out a paragraph which ran more or less as follows:—-
德·诺布瓦先生走后，我父亲看了一眼晚报。我又梦见了贝尔玛。我在听她讲话时所获得的乐趣需要得到满足，尤其是因为它远远没有达到我对自己的承诺；因此，它立即吸收了一切能够给它提供营养的东西，那些优点，为了自己的立场，德·诺布瓦先生承认贝尔马拥有这些优点，而我的头脑一下子就吸收了这些优点，就像水浇透后的干草坪一样。倒在上面。然后父亲把报纸递给我，指给我看一段话，大致内容如下：——

The performance of Phèdre, given this afternoon before an enthusiastic audience, which included the foremost representatives of society and the arts, as well as the principal critics, was for Mme. Berma, who played the heroine, the occasion of a triumph as brilliant as any that she has known in the course of her phenomenal career. We shall discuss more fully in a later issue this performance, which is indeed an event in the history of the stage; for the present we need only add that the best qualified judges are unanimous in the pronouncement that such an interpretation sheds an entirely new light on the part of Phèdre, which is one of the finest and most studied of Racine’s creations, and that it constitutes the purest and most exalted manifestation of dramatic art which it has been the privilege of our generation to witness.
今天下午，费德尔的表演在热情的观众面前进行，其中包括社会和艺术的最重要代表以及主要评论家。扮演女主角的贝尔玛在她非凡的职业生涯中获得了前所未有的辉煌胜利。我们将在下一期更全面地讨论这次演出，这确实是舞台史上的一件大事；目前，我们只需补充一点，最有资格的法官一致认为，这种解释为菲德尔的部分提供了全新的视角，这是拉辛创作中最优秀、研究最多的作品之一，并且它构成了我们这一代人有幸见证了戏剧艺术最纯粹、最崇高的表现。

Immediately my mind had conceived this new idea of ‘the purest and most exalted manifestation of dramatic art,’ it, the idea, sped to join the imperfect pleasure which I had felt in the theatre, added to it a little of what was lacking, and their combination formed something so exalting that I cried out within myself: ‘What a great artist!’ It may doubtless be argued that I was not absolutely sincere. But let us bear in mind, rather, the numberless writers who, dissatisfied with the page which they have just written, if they read some eulogy of the genius of Chateaubriand, or evoke the spirit of some great artist whose equal they aspire to be, by humming to themselves, for instance, a phrase of Beethoven, the melancholy of which they compare with what they have been trying to express in prose, are so filled with that idea of genius that they add it to their own productions, when they think of them once again, see them no longer in the light in which at first they appeared, and, hazarding an act of faith in the value of their work, say to themselves: ‘After all!’ without taking into account that, into the total which determines their ultimate satisfaction, they have introduced the memory of marvellous pages of Chateaubriand which they assimilate to their own, but of which, in cold fact, they are not the authors; let us bear in mind the numberless men who believe in the love of a mistress on the evidence only of her betrayals; all those, too, who are sustained by the alternative hopes, either of an incomprehensible survival of death, when they think, inconsolable husbands, of the wives whom they have lost but have not ceased to love, or, artists, of the posthumous glory which they may thus enjoy; or else the hope of complete extinction which comforts them when their thoughts turn to the misdeeds that otherwise they must expiate after death; let us bear in mind also the travellers who come home enraptured by the general beauty of a tour of which, from day to day, they have felt nothing but the tedious incidents; and let us then declare whether, in the communal life that is led by our ideas in the enclosure of our minds, there is a single one of those that make us most happy which has not first sought, a very parasite, and won from an alien but neighbouring idea the greater part of the strength that it originally lacked.
我的脑海里立即构想出“戏剧艺术最纯粹、最崇高的表现形式”这一新观念，它，这个观念，迅速加入了我在戏剧中感受到的不完美的快乐，补充了一些所缺乏的东西，他们的结合形成了一种如此令人振奋的东西，以至于我在心里大声呼喊：“多么伟大的艺术家！”毫无疑问，我可能并不完全真诚。但是，让我们记住，相反，无数的作家，如果他们读到一些对夏多布里昂天才的颂词，或者唤起他们渴望成为的某个伟大艺术家的精神，他们对自己刚刚写的那一页不满意，例如，通过哼唱贝多芬的一段话，他们将其忧郁与他们一直试图用散文表达的内容进行比较，充满了天才的想法，以至于他们将其添加到自己的作品中，当他们认为再次看到他们，不再以他们最初出现时的眼光来看待他们，并且冒险对他们工作的价值抱有信心，对自己说：“毕竟！’他们没有考虑到，在决定他们最终满足感的总体中，他们引入了对夏多布里昂的精彩篇章的记忆，他们将这些篇章吸收到自己的记忆中，但事实上，他们并不是这些书的作者；让我们记住，有无数的男人仅仅因为情妇的背叛而相信情妇的爱。所有那些同样被另一种希望所支撑的人，或者是难以理解的死亡幸存，当他们作为伤心欲绝的丈夫，想到他们失去但仍然爱着的妻子时，或者，作为艺术家，想到死后的荣耀他们可以这样享受；或者，当他们的思想转向否则他们必须在死后赎罪的恶行时，完全灭绝的希望会安慰他们；让我们也不要忘记那些回家的旅行者，他们被旅行的整体美景所迷住，但日复一日，他们只感受到乏味的事件；然后让我们宣布，在由我们思想封闭的观念主导的集体生活中，是否有一个让我们最幸福的东西，它不是首先寻求的，一个非常寄生虫，并从一个外来但邻近的想法，其最初所缺乏的大部分力量。

My mother appeared none too well pleased that my father no longer thought of ‘the career’ for myself. I fancy that, anxious before all things that a definite rule of life should discipline the eccentricity of my nervous system, what she regretted was not so much seeing me abandon diplomacy as the prospect of my devoting myself to literature. But ‘Let him alone!’ my father protested; ‘the main thing is that a man should find pleasure in his work. He is no longer a child. He knows pretty well now what he likes, it is not at all probable that he will change, and he is quite capable of deciding for himself what will make him happy in life.’ That evening, as I waited for the time to arrive when, thanks to the freedom of choice which they allowed me, I should or should not begin to be happy in life, my father’s words caused me great uneasiness. At all times his unexpected kindnesses had, when they were manifested, prompted in me so keen a desire to kiss, above where his beard began, his glowing cheeks, that if I did not yield to that desire, it was simply because I was afraid of annoying him. And on that day, as an author becomes alarmed when he sees the fruits of his own meditation, which do not appear to him to be of great value since he does not separate them from himself, oblige a publisher to choose a kind of paper, to employ a fount of type finer, perhaps, than they deserve, I asked myself whether my desire to write was of sufficient importance to justify my father in dispensing so much generosity. But apart from that, when he spoke of my inclinations as no longer liable to change, he awakened in me two terrible suspicions. The first was that (at a time when, every day, I regarded myself as standing upon the threshold of a life which was still intact and would not enter upon its course until the following morning) my existence was already begun, and that, furthermore, what was yet to follow would not differ to any extent from what had already elapsed. The second suspicion, which was nothing more, really, than a variant of the first, was that I was not situated somewhere outside the realm of Time, but was subject to its laws, just like the people in novels who, for that reason, used to plunge me in such depression when I read of their lives, down at Combray, in the fastness of my wicker sentry-box. In theory one is aware that the earth revolves, but in practice one does not perceive it, the ground upon which one treads seems not to move, and one can live undisturbed. So it is with Time in one’s life. And to make its flight perceptible novelists are obliged, by wildly accelerating the beat of the pendulum, to transport the reader in a couple of minutes over ten, or twenty, or even thirty years. At the top of one page we have left a lover full of hope; at the foot of the next we meet him again, a bowed old man of eighty, painfully dragging himself on his daily walk about the courtyard of an almshouse, scarcely replying to what is said to him, oblivious of the past. In saying of me, ‘He is no longer a child,’ ‘His tastes will not change now,’ and so forth, my father had suddenly made me apparent to myself in my position in Time, and caused me the same kind of depression as if I had baen, not yet the enfeebled old pensioner, but one of those heroes of whom the author, in a tone of indifference which is particularly galling, says to us at the end of a book: ‘He very seldom comes up now from the country. He has finally decided to end his days there.’
对于父亲不再为自己考虑“职业”，母亲似乎不太高兴。我想，她最担心的是，生活的明确规则应该约束我神经系统的怪异，她后悔的不是看到我放弃外交，而是看到我投身于文学。但父亲抗议道：“别管他！” “最重要的是一个人应该在工作中找到乐趣。他不再是一个孩子了。他现在很清楚自己喜欢什么，他不太可能改变，而且他完全有能力自己决定什么能让他的生活幸福。”那天晚上，我等待着时机的到来。感谢他们给了我选择的自由，我应该或不应该开始幸福的生活，父亲的话引起了我极大的不安。每当他出人意料的善意表现出来时，都会激起我如此强烈的欲望，想要亲吻他胡子开始的地方，他发光的脸颊，如果我不屈服于这种欲望，那只是因为我害怕惹恼他。在那一天，当一位作者看到自己冥想的成果时感到震惊，这对他来说似乎没有多大价值，因为他没有将它们与自己分开，迫使出版商选择一种纸张，为了使用一种也许比他们应得的更好的字体源泉，我问自己，我写作的愿望是否足够重要，足以证明我的父亲给予如此多的慷慨是合理的。但除此之外，当他说我的倾向不再容易改变时，他在我心中唤起了两个可怕的怀疑。 第一个是（在那时，每天，我都认为自己正站在生命的门槛上，生命仍然完好无损，直到第二天早上才会进入它的轨道）我的存在已经开始了，而且， ，即将发生的事情与已经发生的事情不会有任何不同。第二个怀疑实际上只不过是第一个怀疑的变体，那就是我并不位于时间领域之外的某个地方，而是受到时间法则的约束，就像小说中的人们一样，因此，当我读到他们在贡布雷的柳条哨兵要塞里的生活时，我常常陷入沮丧之中。理论上人们知道地球在旋转，但实际上人们却没有意识到这一点，人们所踩的地面似乎没有移动，人们可以不受干扰地生活。人一生中的时间也是如此。为了使这种飞行能够被感知，小说家们不得不通过疯狂地加速钟摆的跳动，在几分钟内将读者带入十年、二十年、甚至三十年。在一页的顶部，我们留下了一位充满希望的爱人；在下一个山脚下，我们再次见到了他，他是一位弓着背的八十岁老人，每天在救济院的院子里艰难地拖着步子，几乎不回答别人对他说的话，忘记了过去。 当我父亲说我“他不再是个孩子了”，“他的品味现在不会改变”等等时，我的父亲突然让我明白了我在时间中的位置，并给我带来了同样的抑郁。就好像我有巴恩一样，他还不是那个虚弱的养老金领取者，而是一位英雄，作者在书的结尾处以一种特别令人难堪的冷漠语气对我们说：“他现在很少出现了”来自国家。他最终决定结束在那里的日子。’

Meanwhile my father, so as to forestall any criticism that we might feel tempted to make of our guest, said to my mother: ‘Upon my word, old Norpois was rather ‘typical,’ as you call it, this evening, wasn’t he? When he said that it would not have been ‘seemly’ to ask the Comte de Paris a question, I was quite afraid you would burst out laughing.’
与此同时，为了防止我们可能对客人提出任何批评，我父亲对我母亲说：“据我所知，老诺普瓦今晚很‘典型’，就像你所说的那样，但他并不像这样。”他？当他说向巴黎伯爵提问是不‘体面’的时候，我很担心你会大笑起来。”

‘Not at all!’ answered my mother. ‘I was delighted to see a man of his standing, and age too, keep that sort of simplicity, which is really a sign of straightforwardness and good-breeding.’
“一点也不！”妈妈回答道。 “我很高兴看到像他这样的地位和年龄的人仍然保持着这种简单，这确实是直率和良好教养的标志。”

‘I should think so, indeed! That does not prevent his having a shrewd and discerning mind; I know him well, I see him at the Commission, remember, where he is very different from what he was here,’ exclaimed my father, who was glad to see that Mamma appreciated M. de Norpois, and anxious to persucde her that he was even superior to what she supposed, because a cordial nature exaggerates a friend’s qualities with as much pleasure as a mischievous one finds in depreciating them. ‘What was it that he said, again—‘With Princes one never does know.’...?’
‘我确实应该这样想！但这并不妨碍他拥有精明而有洞察力的头脑； “我很了解他，我在委员会见过他，记住，他与这里的人非常不同，”我父亲大声说道，他很高兴看到妈妈欣赏德·诺普瓦先生，并急于说服她相信他甚至比她想象的还要好，因为真诚的本性会夸大朋友的品质，就像顽皮的人在贬低朋友的品质时所带来的乐趣一样。 “他又说了些什么——‘对于王子来说，人们永远不知道。’……？”

‘Yes, that was it. I noticed it at the time; it was very neat. You can see that he has a vast experience of life.’
‘是的，就是这样。我当时就注意到了；非常整洁。你可以看出他有着丰富的生活经历。

‘The astonishing thing is that he should have been dining with the Swanns, and that he seems to have found quite respectable people there, officials even. How on earth can Mme. Swann have managed to catch them?’
“令人惊讶的是，他应该和斯旺一家一起吃饭，而且他似乎在那里找到了相当受人尊敬的人，甚至是官员。夫人到底怎么可以？斯旺成功抓住了他们吗？

‘Did you notice the malicious way he said: ‘It is a house which is especially attractive to gentlemen!’?’
“你有没有注意到他恶意地说：‘这是一座对绅士特别有吸引力的房子！’？”

And each of them attempted to reproduce the manner in which M. de Norpois had uttered these words, as they might have attempted to capture some intonation of Bressant’s voice or of Thiron’s in L’Aventurière or in the Gendre de M. Poirier. But of all his sayings there was none so keenly relished as one was by Françoise, who, years afterwards, even, could not ‘keep a straight face’ if we reminded her that she had been qualified by the Ambassador as ‘a chef of the first order,’ a compliment which my mother had gone in person to transmit to her, as a War Minister publishes the congratulations addressed to him by a visiting Sovereign after the grand review. I, as it happened, had preceded my mother to the kitchen. For I had extorted from Françoise, who though opposed to war was cruel, that she would cause no undue suffering to the rabbit which she had to kill, and I had had no report yet of its death. Françoise assured me that it had passed away as peacefully as could be desired, and very swiftly. ‘I have never seen a beast like it; it died without uttering a word; you would have thought it was dumb.’ Being but little versed in the language of beasts I suggested that the rabbit had not, perhaps, a cry like the chicken’s. ‘Just wait till you see,’ said Françoise, filled with contempt for my ignorance, ‘if rabbits don’t cry every bit as much as chickens. Why, they are far noisier.’ She received the compliments of M. de Norpois with the proud simplicity, the joyful and (if but for the moment) intelligent expression of an artist when someone speaks to him of his art. My mother had sent her when she first came to us to several of the big restaurants to see how the cooking there was done. I had the same pleasure, that evening, in hearing her dismiss the most famous of them as mere cookshops that I had had long ago, when I learned with regard to theatrical artists that the hierarchy of their merits did not at all correspond to that of their reputations. ‘The Ambassador,’ my mother told her, ‘assured me that he knows no place where he can get cold beef and soufflés as good as yours.’ Françoise, with an air of modesty and of paying just homage to the truth, agreed, but seemed not at all impressed by the title ‘Ambassador’; she said of M. de Norpois, with the friendliness due to a man who had taken her for a chef: ‘He’s a good old soul, like me.’ She had indeed hoped to catch sight of him as he arrived, but knowing that Mamma hated their standing about behind doors and in windows, and thinking that Mamma would get to know from the other servants or from the porter that she had been keeping watch (for Françoise saw everywhere nothing but ‘jealousies’ and ‘tale-bearings,’ which played the same grim and unending part in her imagination as do for others of us the intrigues of the Jesuits or the Jews), she had contented herself with a peep from the kitchen window, ‘so as not to have words with Madame,’ and beneath the momentary aspect of M. de Norpois had ‘thought it was Monsieur Legrand,’ because of what she called his ‘agelity’ and in spite of their having not a single point in common. ‘Well,’ inquired my mother, ‘and how do you explain that nobody else can make a jelly as well as you—when you choose?’ ‘I really couldn’t say how that becomes about,’ replied Françoise, who had established no very clear line of demarcation between the verb ‘to come,’ in certain of its meanings at least, and the verb ‘to become.’ She was speaking the truth, if not the whole truth, being scarcely more capable—or desirous—of revealing the mystery which ensured the superiority of her jellies or her creams than a leader of fashion the secrets of her toilet or a great singer those of her song. Their explanations tell us little; it was the same with the recipes furnished by our cook. ‘They do it in too much of a hurry,’ she went on, alluding to the great restaurants, ‘and then it’s not all done together. You want the beef to become like a sponge, then it will drink up all the juice to the last drop. Still, there was one of those Cafés where I thought they did know a little bit about cooking. I don’t say it was altogether my jelly, but it was very nicely done, and the soufflés had plenty of cream.’ ‘Do you mean Henry’s?’ asked my father (who had now joined us), for he greatly enjoyed that restaurant in the Place Gaillon where he went regularly to club dinners. ‘Oh, dear no!’ said Françoise, with a mildness which cloaked her profound contempt. ‘I meant a little restaurant. At that Henry’s it’s all very good, sure enough, but it’s not a restaurant, it’s more like a—soup-kitchen.’ ‘Weber’s, then?’ ‘Oh, no, sir, I meant a good restaurant. Weber’s, that’s in the Rue Royale; that’s not a restaurant, it’s a drinking-shop. I don’t know that the food they give you there is even served. I think they don’t have any tablecloths; they just shove it down in front of you like that, with a take it or leave it.’ ‘Giro’s?’ ‘Oh! there I should say they have the cooking done by ladies of the world.’ (’World’ meant for Françoise the under-world.) ‘Lord! They need that to fetch the boys in.’ We could see that, with all her air of simplicity, Françoise was for the celebrities of her profession a more disastrous ‘comrade’ than the most jealous, the most infatuated of actresses. We felt, all the same, that she had a proper feeling for her art and a respect for tradition; for she went on: ‘No, I mean a restaurant where they looked as if they kept a very good little family table. It’s a place of some consequence, too. Plenty of custom there. Oh, they raked in the coppers there, all right.’ Françoise, being an economist, reckoned in coppers, where your plunger would reckon in gold. ‘Madame knows the place well enough, down there to the right along the main boulevards, a little way back.’ The restaurant of which she spoke with this blend of pride and good-humoured tolerance was, it turned out, the Café Anglais.
他们每个人都试图重现德·诺普瓦先生说出这些话的方式，因为他们可能试图捕捉布雷桑的声音或蒂隆在《冒险》或《普瓦里尔的风格》中的语调。但在他的所有言论中，没有哪一个比弗朗索瓦丝的言论更受人津津乐道了，即使在多年之后，如果我们提醒她，她已被大使授予“法国厨师的资格”，她也无法“板着脸”。 “第一道命令”是我母亲亲自转达给她的赞美之词，当时一位陆军部长在大检阅后发表了一位来访的君主向他表示的祝贺。碰巧，我先于母亲去了厨房。因为我曾向弗朗索瓦丝（尽管她反对战争却很残忍）勒索她不要给她必须杀死的兔子造成过度的痛苦，而且我还没有收到兔子死亡的报告。弗朗索瓦丝向我保证，它已经按照我所希望的那样平静地、非常迅速地过去了。 “我从来没有见过这样的野兽；它一句话也没说就死了； “你可能会认为它很蠢。”由于我对野兽的语言知之甚少，我认为兔子也许不像鸡那样叫。 “你等着瞧吧，”弗朗索瓦丝说道，她对我的无知充满了蔑视，“兔子是否不像鸡那样哭得那么厉害。”为什么，他们吵闹得多。’当有人向德·诺普瓦先生谈论他的艺术时，她以一种艺术家的自豪的简单、快乐和（如果只是暂时的）聪明的表达方式接受了他的称赞。我母亲第一次来找我们时就派她去了几家大餐馆，看看那里的烹饪是如何做的。 那天晚上，当我了解到戏剧艺术家的功绩等级与戏剧艺术家的等级根本不相符时，我也有同样的乐趣，听到她将其中最著名的那些视为我很久以前拥有的仅仅是烹饪店。他们的声誉。 “大使，”我母亲告诉她，“向我保证，他不知道在哪里可以买到像你一样好的冷牛肉和蛋奶酥。”弗朗索瓦丝带着谦虚的态度和对事实的敬意，同意了：但似乎对“大使”这个头衔根本不感兴趣；她谈到德·诺普瓦先生时，语气就像一个把她当作厨师的男人一样：“他是一个善良的老灵魂，就像我一样。”她确实希望在他到来时能见到他，但她知道妈妈讨厌他们站在门后和窗户里，认为妈妈会从其他仆人或门房那里知道她一直在看守（因为弗朗索瓦丝到处都看到了“嫉妒”和“谣言”，这在她的想象中扮演着同样可怕和永无休止的角色，就像对我们其他人来说，耶稣会士或犹太人的阴谋一样），她满足于从厨房窗户往外看，“以免与夫人说话。”德·诺布瓦先生一时之间“以为是罗格朗先生”，因为她称之为“敏捷”，尽管他们没有任何共同点。 “好吧，”我母亲问道，“那么，当你选择的时候，没有人能像你一样制作果冻，你怎么解释呢？”“我真的不知道这是怎么回事，”弗朗索瓦丝回答道，她已经建立了动词“to come”（至少在某些含义上）和动词“to be”之间没有非常清晰的界限。她说的是真话，即使不是全部真话，她也同样有能力——或者说渴望——揭示确保她的果冻或面霜优越性的秘密，比一位时尚领袖、她厕所的秘密或一位伟大的歌手更能揭示她的果冻或面霜的优越性。她的歌。他们的解释并没有告诉我们什么。我们厨师提供的食谱也是如此。 “他们做得太匆忙了，”她继续说道，指的是那些很棒的餐馆，“而且这一切都不是一起完成的。”你想让牛肉变得像海绵一样，那么它就会把所有的汁液都吸干。尽管如此，还是有一家咖啡馆，我认为他们确实对烹饪略知一二。 “你是说亨利的吗？”我父亲（他现在加入了我们）问道，因为他非常喜欢这个。他经常去加永广场的一家餐厅参加俱乐部晚宴。 “哦，亲爱的，不！”弗朗索瓦丝温和地说，掩盖了她深深的轻蔑。 “我指的是一家小餐馆。亨利餐厅的一切都非常好，当然，但它不是一家餐馆，它更像是一个施粥厨房。” “那么韦伯餐厅呢？” “哦，不，先生，我的意思是一家不错的餐厅。韦伯店（Weber's），位于皇家街（Rue Royale）；那不是一家餐馆，而是一家酒吧。我不知道他们给你的食物有没有提供。我想他们没有桌布； “他们只是把它推到你面前，要么接受要么放弃。” “Giro 的？” “哦！我应该说，那里的烹饪是由世界各地的女士们做的。”（“世界”是指地下世界的弗朗索瓦丝。）“主啊！他们需要它来接男孩们。我们可以看到，虽然弗朗索瓦丝看上去很单纯，但对于她这个行业的名人来说，她是一个比最嫉妒、最迷恋的女演员更灾难性的“同志”。尽管如此，我们还是觉得她对自己的艺术有正确的感情，并且尊重传统。因为她接着说：“不，我指的是一家餐馆，他们看起来好像有一张非常好的家庭小餐桌。这也是一个具有重要意义的地方。那里有很多习俗。哦，他们在那儿捞了铜币，好吧。”弗朗索瓦丝，作为一名经济学家，以铜币计算，而你的柱塞则以黄金计算。 “夫人对这个地方很熟悉，就在主干道的右边，就在后面不远的地方。”她带着自豪和幽默的宽容谈到的那家餐厅原来是英国咖啡馆。

When New Year’s Day came, I first of all paid a round of family visits with Mamma who, so as not to tire me, had planned them beforehand (with the aid of an itinerary drawn up by my father) according to districts rather than to degrees of kinship. But no sooner had we entered the drawing-room of the distant cousin whose claim to being visited first was that her house was at no distance from ours, than my mother was horrified to see standing there, his present of marrons glacés or déguisés in his hand, the bosom friend of the most sensitive of all my uncles, to whom he would at once go and report that we had not begun our round with him. And this uncle would certainly be hurt; he would have thought it quite natural that we should go from the Madeleine to the Jardin des Plantes, where he lived, before stopping at Saint-Augustin, on our way to the Rue de l’Ecole de Médecine.
元旦到来的时候，我首先和妈妈一起去探望家人，为了不让我劳累，妈妈提前按照地区（在我父亲制定的行程的帮助下）安排了这些活动，而不是按照地区。亲属关系的程度。但是，我们一走进远房表弟的客厅，她声称首先被拜访的是她的房子离我们的房子不远，我母亲就惊恐地看到站在那里，他的礼物是糖霜栗子或栗子。他是我所有叔叔中最敏感的一个的知心朋友，他会立即去向他报告我们还没有和他一起开始我们的回合。而这位叔叔肯定会受到伤害；他会认为我们应该从马德琳教堂前往他居住的植物园，然后在圣奥古斯丁停留，然后前往医学学院路，这是很自然的事情。

Our visits ended (my grandmother had dispensed us from the duty of calling on her, since we were to dine there that evening), I ran all the way to the Champs-Elysées to give to our own special stall-keeper, with instructions to hand it over to the person who came to her several times a week from the Swanns to buy gingerbread, the letter which, on the day when my friend had caused me so much anxiety, I had decided to send her at the New Year, and in which I told her that our old friendship was vanishing with the old year, that I would forget, now, my old sorrows and disappointments, and that, from this first day of January, it was a new friendship that we were going to cement, one so solid that nothing could destroy it, so wonderful that I hoped that Gilberte would go out of her way to preserve it in all its beauty, and to warn me in time, as I promised to warn her, should either of us detect the least sign of a peril that might endanger it. On our way home Françoise made me stop at the corner of the Rue Royale, before an open-air stall from which she selected for her own stock of presents photographs of Pius IX and Raspail, while for myself I purchased one of Berma. The innumerable admiration which that artist excited gave an air almost of poverty to this one face that she had to respond with, unalterable and precarious as are the garments of people who have not a ‘change,’ this face on which she must continually expose to view only the tiny dimple upon her upper lip, the arch of her eyebrows, a few other physical peculiarities always the same, which, when it came to that, were at the mercy of a burn or a blow. This face, moreover, could not in itself have seemed to me beautiful, but it gave me the idea, and consequently the desire to kiss it by reason of all the kisses that it must have received, for which, from its page in the album, it seemed still to be appealing with that coquettishly tender gaze, that artificially ingenuous smile. For our Berma must indeed have felt for many young men those longings which she confessed under cover of the personality of Phaedra, longings of which everything, even the glamour of her name which enhanced her beauty and prolonged her youth, must render the gratification so easy to her. Night was falling; I stopped before a column of playbills, on which was posted that of the piece in which she was to appear on January 1. A moist and gentle breeze was blowing. It was a time of day and year that I knew; I suddenly felt a presentiment that New Year’s Day was not a day different from, the rest, that it was not the first day of a new world, in which, I might, by a chance that had never yet occurred, that was still intact, make Gilberte’s acquaintance afresh, as at the Creation of the World, as though the past had no longer any existence, as though there had been obliterated, with the indications which I might have preserved for my future guidance, the disappointments which she had sometimes brought me; a new world in which nothing should subsist from the old—save one thing, my desire that Gilberte should love me. I realised that if my heart hoped for such a reconstruction, round about it, of a universe that had not satisfied it before, it was because my heart had not altered, and I told myself that there was no reason why Gilberte’s should have altered either; I felt that this new friendship was the same, just as there is no boundary ditch between their forerunners and those new years which our desire for them, without being able to reach and so to modify them, invests, unknown to themselves, with distinctive names. I might dedicate this new year, if I chose, to Gilberte, and as one bases a religious system upon the blind laws of nature, endeavour to stamp New Year’s Day with the particular image that I had formed of it; but in vain, I felt that it was not aware that people called it New Year’s Day, that it was passing in a wintry dusk in a manner that was not novel to me; in the gentle breeze that floated about the column of playbills I had recognised, I had felt reappear the eternal, the universal substance, the familiar moisture, the unheeding fluidity of the old days and years.
我们的拜访结束了（我的祖母免除了我们拜访她的责任，因为我们那天晚上要在那里吃饭），我一路跑到香榭丽舍大街，给我们自己的特殊摊主，并指示把它交给每周几次从斯旺家来找她买姜饼的人，这封信是在我的朋友让我如此焦虑的那天，我决定在新年时寄给她的，并且我告诉她，我们的旧友谊正在随着旧的一年而消失，我现在会忘记我过去的悲伤和失望，从一月的第一天开始，这是我们要巩固的新友谊如此坚固，任何东西都无法摧毁它，如此美妙，我希望希尔贝特能不遗余力地保护它的美丽，并及时警告我，就像我答应过警告她的那样，如果我们中的任何一个发现的话可能危及它的危险的最小迹象。在回家的路上，弗朗索瓦丝让我在皇家街的拐角处停下来，在一个露天摊位前，她从那里挑选了自己收藏的庇护九世和拉斯拜尔的照片作为礼物，而我自己则购买了一张贝尔马的照片。这位艺术家激起的无数钦佩给她不得不回应的这张脸带来了一种近乎贫困的气氛，一成不变且不稳定，就像那些没有“变化”的人的衣服一样，她必须不断地将这张脸暴露给她。只看到她上唇上的小酒窝，眉毛的拱形，其他一些身体特征总是一样的，当谈到这些时，这些特征都受到烧伤或打击的影响。 此外，这张脸本身在我看来并不美丽，但它给了我这个想法，并因此产生了亲吻它的欲望，因为它一定收到了所有的吻，为此，从专辑中的页面来看那个娇媚温柔的眼神，那个做作的纯真笑容，似乎依然很吸引人。因为我们的贝尔玛确实对许多年轻人有过那种渴望，她在费德拉的个性掩盖下承认了这一点，这种渴望的一切，甚至是她名字的魅力，增强了她的美丽，延长了她的青春，都必须使满足变得如此容易给她。夜幕降临了；我在一栏节目单前停了下来，上面贴着她1月1日出演的节目。一阵潮湿而柔和的微风吹过。这是我熟悉的一天和一年中的某个时刻；我突然有一种预感，新年这一天与其他日子没有什么不同，这不是一个新世界的第一天，在这个新世界中，我可能会碰巧从未发生过，它仍然完好无损。 ，让希尔贝特重新结识，就像在创世时一样，仿佛过去已不复存在，仿佛过去已经被抹去了，我可能会为未来的指导保留一些迹象，她有时感到的失望带来了我；一个新的世界，其中一切都不再是旧的——除了一件事，我希望希尔贝特爱我。 我意识到，如果我的心希望在它周围重建一个以前无法满足它的宇宙，那是因为我的心没有改变，我告诉自己，吉尔贝特的心也没有理由改变。 ;我觉得这种新的友谊是一样的，就像他们的先行者和那些我们渴望的新岁月之间没有界限一样，我们对他们的渴望，无法到达并因此修改它们，投资，不为人所知，具有独特的名字。如果我愿意的话，我可能会把这个新年献给希尔贝特，作为一个将宗教体系建立在盲目的自然法则基础上的人，我会努力在元旦上印上我所形成的特定形象；但徒劳地，我觉得它没有意识到人们称之为元旦，它是在寒冷的黄昏中以一种对我来说并不新鲜的方式过去的；在我认出的那一栏节目单周围飘来的微风中，我感觉到了永恒的、普遍的实质、熟悉的湿润、旧时光和岁月的不被注意的流动性的再现。

I returned to the house. I had spent the New Year’s Day of old men, who differ on that day from their juniors, not because people have ceased to give them presents but because they themselves have ceased to believe in the New Year. Presents I had indeed received, but not that present which alone could bring me pleasure, namely a line from Gilberte. I was young still, none the less, since I had been able to write her one, by means of which I hoped, in telling her of my solitary dreams of love and longing, to arouse similar dreams in her. The sadness of men who have grown old lies in their no longer even thinking of writing such letters, the futility of which their experience has shewn.
我回到屋里。我在老人家度过了元旦，他们在这一天与晚辈不同，不是因为人们不再给他们送礼物，而是因为他们自己不再相信新年。我确实收到了礼物，但唯一能给我带来快乐的礼物，就是希尔贝特的一封信。尽管如此，我还很年轻，因为我已经能够给她写一封信，我希望通过这封信，在告诉她我关于爱和渴望的孤独梦想时，能够唤起她类似的梦想。人到老了，可悲之处就在于他们不再想写这样的信，他们的经验表明，这是徒劳的。

After I was in bed, the noises of the street, unduly prolonged upon this festive evening, kept me awake. I thought of all the people who were ending the night in pleasure, of the lover, the troop, it might be, of debauchees who would be going to meet Berma at the stage-door after the play that I had seen announced for this evening. I was not even able, so as to calm the agitation which that idea engendered in me during my sleepless night, to assure myself that Berma was not, perhaps, thinking about love, since the lines that she was reciting, which she had long and carefully rehearsed, reminded her at every moment that love is an exquisite thing, as of course she already knew, and knew so well that she displayed its familiar pangs—only enriched with a new violence and an unsuspected sweetness—to her astonished audience; and yet each of them had felt those pangs himself. I lighted my candle again, to look once more upon her face. At the thought that it was, no doubt, at that very moment being caressed by those men whom I could not prevent from giving to Berma and receiving from her joys superhuman but vague, I felt an emotion more cruel than voluptuous, a longing that was aggravated presently by the sound of a horn, as one hears it on the nights of the Lenten carnival and often of other public holidays, which, because it then lacks all poetry, is more saddening, coming from a toy squeaker, than ‘at evening, in the depth of the woods.’ At that moment, a message from Gilberte would perhaps not have been what I wanted. Our desires cut across one another’s paths, and in this confused existence it is but rarely that a piece of good fortune coincides with the desire that clamoured for it.
当我上床睡觉后，街上的喧闹声在这个节日的夜晚过分地延长，让我彻夜难眠。我想到了所有在快乐中结束这个夜晚的人，想到了情人，想到了这群人，可能想到了在我看到今晚宣布的戏剧演出后将在舞台门口与贝尔玛见面的放荡者。 。为了平息这个想法在我不眠之夜给我带来的不安，我什至无法向自己保证，贝尔玛也许并没有在思考爱情，因为她正在背诵的台词，她已经朗诵了很长一段时间了。精心排练的，每时每刻都提醒她，爱情是一件微妙的事情，当然她已经知道了，而且知道得如此之深，以至于她向她惊讶的观众展示了它熟悉的痛苦——只不过增添了一种新的暴力和一种意想不到的甜蜜；然而他们每个人都亲身感受到了这些痛苦。我再次点燃蜡烛，再次看着她的脸。毫无疑问，就在那一刻，我无法阻止那些男人的爱抚，我无法阻止他们给予贝尔玛，并从她的快乐中获得超人但模糊的快乐，我感到一种比性感更残酷的情感，一种渴望不久之后，号角声就加剧了这种情况，就像人们在四旬斋狂欢节的夜晚以及其他公众假期经常听到的那样，由于它缺乏所有的诗意，因此比“在晚上”从玩具吱吱声中发出的声音更令人悲伤在那一刻，来自吉尔贝特的消息也许不是我想要的。我们的欲望相互交叉，在这个混乱的存在中，一件好运与强烈渴望它的欲望相吻合的情况很少见。

I continued to go to the Champs-Elysées on fine days, along streets whose stylish pink houses seemed to be washed (because exhibitions of water-colours were then at the height of fashion) in a lightly floating atmosphere. It would be untrue to say that in those days the palaces of Gabriel struck me as being of greater beauty, or even of another epoch than the adjoining houses. I found more style, and should have supposed more antiquity if not in the Palais de l’Industrie at any rate in the Troca-déro. Plunged in a restless sleep, my adolescence embodied in one uniform vision the whole of the quarter through which it might be strolling, and I had never dreamed that there could be an eighteenth century building in the Rue Royale, just as I should have been astonished to learn that the Porte-Saint-Martin and the Porte-Saint-Denis, those glories of the age of Louis XIV, were not contemporary with the most recently built tenements in the sordid regions that bore their names. Once only one of Gabriel’s palaces made me stop for more than a moment; that was because, night having fallen, its columns, dematerialised by the moonlight, had the appearance of having been cut out in pasteboard, and by recalling to me a scene in the operetta Orphée aux Enfers gave me for the first time an impression of beauty.
天气好的时候，我继续去香榭丽舍大街，街道上时尚的粉红色房屋似乎被洗过（因为当时水彩画展正处于时尚的鼎盛时期），气氛轻飘飘的。如果说当时加布里埃尔的宫殿比邻近的宫殿更美丽，甚至属于另一个时代，那是不真实的。我发现了更多的风格，如果不是在工业宫，至少在特罗卡德罗，我应该认为更古老。陷入不安的睡眠中，我的青春期在一个统一的愿景中体现了它可能漫步的整个街区，我从未梦想过在皇家街上会有一座十八世纪的建筑，正如我应该感到惊讶的那样了解圣马丁门和圣但尼门这两个路易十四时代的辉煌，与以它们的名字命名的肮脏地区最近建造的公寓并不同时存在。有一次，只有加布里埃尔的一座宫殿让我驻足不止片刻；因为夜幕降临，它的柱子在月光下变得非物质化，就像是用纸板剪下来的，让我想起轻歌剧《奥尔菲厄与地狱》中的一个场景，第一次给我留下了美的印象。 。

Meanwhile Gilberte never came to the Champs-Elysées. And yet it was imperative that I should see her, for I could not so much as remember what she was like. The questing, anxious, exacting way that we have of looking at the person we love, our eagerness for the word which shall give us or take from us the hope of an appointment for the morrow, and, until that word is uttered, our alternative if not simultaneous imaginings of joy and of despair, all these make our observation, in the beloved object’s presence, too tremulous to be able to carry away a clear impression of her. Perhaps, also, that activity of all the senses at once which endeavours to learn from the visible aspect alone what lies behind it is over-indulgent to the thousand forms, to the changing fragrance, to the movements of the living person whom as a rule, when we are not in love, we regard as fixed in one permanent position. Whereas the beloved model does not stay still; and our mental photographs of her are always blurred. I did not rightly know how Gilberte’s features were composed, save in the heavenly moments when she disclosed them to me; I could remember nothing but her smile. And not being able to see again that beloved face, despite every effort that I might make to recapture it, I would be disgusted to find, outlined in my memory with a maddening precision of detail, the meaningless, emphatic faces of the man with the wooden horses and of the barley-sugar woman; just as those who have lost a dear friend whom they never see even while they are asleep, are exasperated at meeting incessantly in their dreams any number of insupportable creatures whom it is quite enough to have known in the waking world. In their inability to form any image of the object of their grief they are almost led to assert that they feel no grief. And I was not far from believing that, since I could not recall the features of Gilberte, I had forgotten Gilberte herself, and no longer loved her. At length she returned to play there almost every day, setting before me fresh pleasures to desire, to demand of her for the morrow, indeed making my love for her every day, in this sense, a new love. But an incident was to change once again, and abruptly, the manner in which, at about two o’clock every afternoon, the problem of my love confronted me. Had M. Swann intercepted the letter that I had written to his daughter, or was Gilberte merely confessing to me long after the event, and so that I should be more prudent in future, a state of things already long established? As I was telling her how greatly I admired her father and mother, she assumed that vague air, full of reticence and kept secrets, which she invariably wore when anyone spoke to her of what she was going to do, her walks, drives, visits—then suddenly expressed it with: ‘You know, they can’t abide you!’ and, slipping from me like the Undine that she was, burst out laughing. Often her laughter, out of harmony with her words, seemed, as music seems, to be tracing an invisible surface on another plane. M. and Mme. Swann did not require Gilberte to give up playing with me, but they would have been just as well pleased, she thought, if we had never begun. They did not look upon our relations with a kindly eye; they believed me to be a young person of low moral standard and imagined that my influence over their daughter must be evil. This type of unscrupulous young man whom the Swanns thought that I resembled, I pictured him to myself as detesting the parents of the girl he loved, flattering them to their faces but, when he was alone with her, making fun of them, urging her on to disobey them and, when once he had completed his conquest, not allowing them even to set eyes on her again. With these characteristics (though they are never those under which the basest of scoundrels recognises himself) how vehemently did my heart contrast the sentiments that did indeed animate it with regard to Swann, so passionate, on the contrary, that I never doubted that, were he to have the least suspicion of them, he must repent of his condemnation of me as of a judicial error. All that I felt about him I made bold to express to him in a long letter which I entrusted to Gilberte, with the request that she would deliver it. She consented. Alas! so he saw in me an even greater impostor than I had feared; those sentiments which I had supposed myself to be portraying, in sixteen pages, with such amplitude of truth, so he had suspected them; in short, the letter that I had written him, as ardent and as sincere as the words that I had uttered to M. de Norpois, met with no more success. Gilberte told me next day, after taking me aside behind a clump of laurels, along a little path by which we sat down on a couple of chairs, that as he read my letter, which she had now brought back to me, her father had shrugged his shoulders, with: ‘All this means nothing; it only goes to prove how right I was.’ I, who knew the purity of my intentions, the goodness of my soul, was furious that my words should not even have impinged upon the surface of Swann’s ridiculous error. For it was an error; of that I had then no doubt. I felt that I had described with such accuracy certain irrefutable characteristics of my generous sentiments that, if Swann had not at once reconstructed these from my indications, had not come to ask my forgiveness and to admit that he had been mistaken, it must be because these noble sentiments he had never himself experienced, which would make him incapable of understanding the existence of them in other people.
与此同时，吉尔贝特从未来过香榭丽舍大街。然而，我必须要见到她，因为我根本不记得她长什么样。我们看待我们所爱之人的探求、焦虑和严格的态度，我们对这个词的渴望，它会给我们带来或夺走我们明天约会的希望，并且，直到那个词被说出之前，我们的选择如果不是同时想象快乐和绝望，所有这些都会使我们在心爱的对象面前的观察变得过于颤抖，无法对她留下清晰的印象。也许，所有感官同时进行的活动，试图仅从可见的方面来了解其背后的东西，就过于放纵了数千种形式，对变化的香味，对活人的动作，通常是这样的。 ，当我们不相爱的时候，我们把自己视为固定在一个永久的位置上。而心爱的模特并没有静止不动；我们脑海中关于她的照片总是模糊的。我不知道希尔贝特的容貌是如何构成的，除非她向我透露这些容貌的美妙时刻。除了她的笑容，我什么都不记得了。尽管我竭尽全力想要重新夺回那张心爱的脸，但我却无法再次见到那张可爱的脸，我会厌恶地发现，在我的记忆中，以令人发狂的精确度勾勒出这个男人毫无意义的、强调的脸，木马和大麦糖女人；就像那些失去了即使在睡梦中也从未见过的挚友的人一样，他们也会因在梦中不断遇到一些在现实世界中认识的令人难以忍受的生物而感到恼怒。 由于他们无法对悲伤的对象形成任何形象，他们几乎会断言自己没有感到悲伤。我几乎相信，既然我记不起希尔贝特的长相，我就已经忘记了希尔贝特本人，也不再爱她了。最后，她几乎每天都回到那里玩耍，给我带来了新的快乐，让我渴望，对她明天提出要求，确实让我每天对她的爱，从这个意义上说，成为一种新的爱。但是，每天下午两点左右，我遇到的爱情问题突然再次发生了变化。斯旺先生是否截获了我写给他女儿的信，或者希尔贝特只是在事件发生很久之后才向我坦白，以便我以后应该更加谨慎，这种情况早已形成？当我告诉她我多么钦佩她的父亲和母亲时，她表现出一种含糊的神情，充满沉默和保守秘密，当有人跟她谈论她要做什么、她的散步、开车、拜访时，她总是表现出这种表情。 ——然后突然这样表达：“你知道，他们无法忍受你！”然后，她像温蒂娜一样从我身边溜走，突然大笑起来。她的笑声常常与她的言语不协调，就像音乐一样，似乎在另一个平面上描绘着一个看不见的表面。 M.和Mme。斯旺并没有要求希尔贝特放弃和我一起玩，但她想，如果我们从未开始，他们也会很高兴。他们并没有用仁慈的眼光看待我们的关系；他们认为我是一个道德水平低下的年轻人，并认为我对他们女儿的影响一定是邪恶的。 斯旺一家人觉得我很像这种肆无忌惮的年轻人，我在心里想象他厌恶他所爱的女孩的父母，当面奉承他们，但当他单独和她在一起时，却取笑他们，催促她他不服从他们，一旦他完成了他的征服，就不允许他们再次看到她。有了这些特征（尽管最卑鄙的恶棍在这些特征下认识不到自己），我的内心与那些确实激发了我对斯万的情感是多么强烈的对比，相反，如此热情，以至于我从未怀疑过，如果他对他们有丝毫怀疑，他就必须悔改他对我的谴责，认为这是一个司法错误。我在一封长信中大胆地向他表达了我对他的所有感受，我将这封信委托给希尔贝特，并请求她将其转达。她同意了。唉!因此，他在我身上看到了一个比我所担心的更大的骗子。我本以为自己在十六页纸中所描绘的这些情感是如此真实，所以他对它们产生了怀疑；总之，我写给他的信和我给德·诺布瓦先生说的话一样热情和真诚，却没有再取得成功。第二天，希尔贝特把我带到一丛桂冠后面，沿着一条小路，我们坐在几把椅子上，然后告诉我，当他读到我的信（她现在把信还给我）时，她的父亲耸耸肩，说道：“这一切都毫无意义；”我知道我的意图是纯洁的，我的灵魂是善良的，但我很愤怒，因为我的话甚至不应该触及斯万可笑错误的表面。因为这是一个错误；我对此毫不怀疑。 我觉得我已经如此准确地描述了我的慷慨情感的某些无可辩驳的特征，如果斯万没有立即根据我的指示重建这些特征，没有来请求我的原谅并承认他错了，那一定是因为这些高尚的情操他自己从未体验过，这让他无法理解别人身上也有这种情操。

Well, perhaps it was simply that Swann knew that generosity is often no more than the inner aspect which our egotistical feelings assume when we have not yet named and classified them. Perhaps he had recognised in the sympathy that I expressed for him simply an effect—and the strongest possible proof—of my love for Gilberte, by which, and not by any subordinate veneration of himself, my subsequent actions would be irresistibly controlled. I was unable to share his point of view, since I had not succeeded in abstracting my love from myself, in forcing it back into the common experience of humanity, and thus suffering, experimentally, its consequences; I was in despair. I was obliged to leave Gilberte for a moment; Françoise had called me. I must accompany her into a little pavilion covered in a green trellis, not unlike one of the disused toll-houses of old Paris, in which had recently been installed what in England they call a lavatory but in France, by an ill-informed piece of anglomania, ‘water-closets.’ The old, damp walls at the entrance, where I stood waiting for Françoise, emitted a chill and fusty smell which, relieving me at once of the anxieties that Swann’s words, as reported by Gilberte, had just awakened in me, pervaded me with a pleasure not at all of the same character as other pleasures, which leave one more unstable than before, incapable of retaining them, of possessing them, but, on the contrary, with a consistent pleasure on which I could lean for support, delicious, soothing, rich with a truth that was lasting, unexplained and certain. I should have liked, as long ago in my walks along the Guermantes way, to endeavour to penetrate the charm of this impression which had seized hold of me, and, remaining there motionless, to interrogate this antiquated emanation which invited me not to enjoy the pleasure which it was offering me only as an ‘extra,’ but to descend into the underlying reality which it had not yet disclosed to me. But the tenant of the establishment, an elderly dame with painted cheeks and an auburn wig, was speaking to me. Françoise thought her ‘very well-to-do indeed.’ Her ‘missy’ had married what Françoise called ‘a young man of family,’ which meant that he differed more, in her eyes, from a workman than, in Saint-Simon’s, a duke did from a man ‘risen from the dregs of the people.’ No doubt the tenant, before entering upon her tenancy, had met with reverses. But Françoise was positive that she was a ‘marquise,’ and belonged to the Saint-Ferréol family. This ‘marquise’ warned me not to stand outside in the cold, and even opened one of her doors for me, saying: ‘Won’t you go inside for a minute? Look, here’s a nice, clean one, and I shan’t charge you anything.’ Perhaps she just made this offer in the spirit in which the young ladies at Gouache’s, when we went in there to order something, used to offer me one of the sweets which they kept on the counter under glass bells, and which, alas, Mamma would never allow me to take; perhaps with less innocence, like an old florist whom Mamma used to have in to replenish her flower-stands, who rolled languishing eyes at me as she handed me a rose. In any event, if the ‘marquise’ had a weakness for little boys, when she threw open to them the hypogean doors of those cubicles of stone in which men crouch like sphinxes, she must have been moved to that generosity less by the hope of corrupting them than by the pleasure which all of us feel in displaying a needless prodigality to those whom we love, for I have never seen her with any other visitor except an old park-keeper.
好吧，也许斯万知道，慷慨往往只不过是我们的自我感觉在我们还没有命名和分类之前所呈现的内在方面。也许他已经认识到我对他表达的同情只是我对希尔贝特的爱的一种效果——也是最有力的证据——通过这种效果，而不是对他自己的任何从属的崇拜，我随后的行动将不可抗拒地受到控制。我无法同意他的观点，因为我没有成功地将我的爱从自己身上抽象出来，迫使它回到人类的共同经验中，从而实验性地承受其后果；我很绝望。我不得不暂时离开希尔贝特。弗朗索瓦丝给我打了电话。我必须陪她走进一座覆盖着绿色格子的小亭子，与老巴黎一座废弃的收费站没什么不同，那里最近安装了一个在英国被称为厕所的东西，但在法国却是由一个消息灵通的人安装的。我站在入口处等待弗朗索瓦丝的地方，那堵旧而潮湿的墙壁散发出一股寒冷和发霉的气味，这立刻缓解了我因吉尔贝特报道的斯旺的话而产生的焦虑。刚刚在我内心觉醒，一种与其他快乐完全不同的性质的快乐弥漫在我身上，这使我比以前更加不稳定，无法保留它们，无法拥有它们，而是相反，具有一种持续的快乐，我可以依靠支持，美味，舒缓，丰富的真理是持久的，无法解释的和确定的。 很久以前，当我沿着盖尔芒特之路散步时，我本想努力洞察这种占据我的印象的魅力，并一动不动地呆在那里，质问这种过时的散发，它邀请我不去享受它。它给我带来的快乐只是作为一种“额外”，而是深入到它尚未向我揭示的潜在现实中。但这家店的房客，一位脸颊涂着彩绘，戴着赤褐色假发的老妇人，正在对我说话。弗朗索瓦丝认为她“确实非常富裕”。她的“小姐”嫁给了弗朗索瓦丝所说的“一个有家庭的年轻人”，这意味着他在她眼中与工人的不同之处比在圣西门眼中的不同。 ”，一位公爵从一个“从人民的渣滓中崛起”的人身上做到了这一点。毫无疑问，房客在签订租约之前就遇到了挫折。但弗朗索瓦丝确信她是一位“侯爵夫人”，属于圣费雷奥尔家族。这位“侯爵夫人”警告我不要在寒冷的天气里站在外面，甚至还为我打开了一扇门，说道：“你不进去一下吗？”你看，这是一个漂亮、干净的，我不会向你收取任何费用。”也许她提出这个提议只是本着这样的精神，当我们去那里点东西时，水粉店的年轻女士们过去常常给我一个。他们把糖果放在柜台上的玻璃铃下，唉，妈妈永远不允许我拿走这些糖果；也许不那么纯真，就像妈妈过去常请来的一位老花店来补充她的花架，当她递给我一朵玫瑰时，她对我翻了个疲倦的眼睛。 无论如何，如果“侯爵夫人”对小男孩有弱点，当她向他们打开那些石头隔间的地下门时，男人像狮身人面像一样蹲在里面，她一定是被感动到慷慨的，而不是希望与我们所有人在向我们所爱的人表现出不必要的挥霍时所感受到的快乐相比，它腐蚀了他们，因为除了一位老公园管理员之外，我从未见过她与其他访客在一起。

A moment later I said good-bye to the ‘marquise,’ and went out accompanied by Françoise, whom I left to return to Gilberte. I caught sight of her at once, on a chair, behind the clump of laurels. She was there so as not to be seen by her friends: they were playing at hide-and-seek. I went and sat down by her side. She had on a flat cap which drooped forwards over her eyes, giving her the same ‘underhand,’ brooding, crafty look which I had remarked in her that first time at Comb ray. I asked her if there was not some way for me to have it out with her father, face to face. Gilberte said that she had suggested that to him, but that he had not thought it of any use. ‘Look,’ she went on, ‘don’t go away without your letter; I must run along to the others, as they haven’t caught me.’
过了一会儿，我向“侯爵夫人”道别，在弗朗索瓦丝的陪同下出去了，然后我离开她返回希尔贝特。我立刻就看到了她，坐在月桂树丛后面的椅子上。她在那里是为了不被朋友们看见：他们正在玩捉迷藏。我走到她身边坐下。她戴着一顶平顶帽子，向前垂下遮住眼睛，让她看起来同样“阴险”、沉思、狡猾，就像我第一次在库姆雷时在她身上看到的那样。我问她是否有什么办法可以让我和她父亲面对面地谈谈。吉尔贝特说她向他提出了这个建议，但他认为这没有任何用处。 “听着，”她继续说道，“不要没有带上你的信就走；我必须跑到其他人那里去，因为他们还没有抓住我。

Had Swann appeared on the scene then before I had recovered it, this letter, by the sincerity of which I felt that he had been so unreasonable in not letting himself be convinced, perhaps he would have seen that it was he who had been in the right. For as I approached Gilberte, who, leaning back in her chair, told me to take the letter but did not hold it out to me, I felt myself so irresistibly attracted by her body that I said to her: ‘Look! You try to stop me from getting it; we’ll see which is the stronger.’
如果斯万在我回过神来之前出现在现场，这封信的诚意让我觉得他如此不讲理，不让自己相信，也许他会看出正是他在这封信中。正确的。因为当我走近希尔贝特时，她靠在椅子上，让我拿下那封信，但没有把它递给我，我感到自己不可抗拒地被她的身体所吸引，于是我对她说：“看！”你试图阻止我得到它；我们会看看哪个更强。

She thrust it behind her back; I put my arms round her neck, raising the plaits of hair which she wore over her shoulders, either because she was still of an age for that or because her mother chose to make her look a child for a little longer so that she herself might still seem young; and we wrestled, locked together. I tried to pull her towards me, she resisted; her cheeks, inflamed by the effort, were as red and round as two cherries; she laughed as though I were tickling her; I held her gripped between my legs like a young tree which I was trying to climb; and, in the middle of my gymnastics, when I was already out of breath with the muscular exercise and the heat of the game, I felt, as it were a few drops of sweat wrung from me by the effort, my pleasure express itself in a form which I could not even pause for a moment to analyse; immediately I snatched the letter from her. Whereupon Gilberte said, good-naturedly:
她把它塞到背后；我用双臂搂住她的脖子，把她披在肩上的辫子撩起来，要么是因为她还不到这个年龄，要么是因为她母亲选择让她看起来再长一点，这样她自己就可以了。看起来仍然年轻；我们扭打在一起，扭打在一起。我试图将她拉向我，但她拒绝了；她的脸颊因用力而红肿，像两颗樱桃一样又红又圆。她笑起来，好像我在给她挠痒痒。我把她夹在双腿之间，就像我试图攀爬的一棵小树一样。在体操进行到一半的时候，当我已经因肌肉锻炼和比赛的激烈而气喘吁吁时，我感到，就像是我因努力而流出的几滴汗水一样，我的快乐表现在一种我什至无法停下来分析的形式；我立即从她手中抢走了那封信。于是希尔贝特善意地说：

‘You know, if you like, we might go on wrestling for a little.’
“你知道，如果你愿意，我们可以继续摔跤一会儿。”

Perhaps she was dimly conscious that my game had had another object than that which I had avowed, but too dimly to have been able to see that I had attained it. And I, who was afraid that she had seen (and a slight recoil, as though of offended modesty which she made and checked a moment later made me think that my fear had not been unfounded), agreed to go on wrestling, lest she should suppose that I had indeed no other object than that, after which I wished only to sit quietly by her side.
也许她隐隐约约地意识到我的游戏还有另一个目标，而不是我所宣称的目标，但她太模糊了，无法看到我已经实现了它。而我，担心她看到了（她做出的谦虚动作让我感到轻微的反感，过了一会儿又检查了一下，这让我觉得我的担心并非没有根据），我同意继续摔跤，以免她假设我确实没有别的目的，那么我只想安静地坐在她身边。

On my way home I perceived, I suddenly recollected the impression, concealed from me until then, towards which, without letting me distinguish or recognise it, the cold, almost sooty smell of the trellised pavilion had borne me. It was that of my uncle Adolphe’s little sitting-room at Combray, which had indeed exhaled the same odour of humidity. But I could not understand, and I postponed the attempt to discover why the recollection of so trivial an impression had given me so keen a happiness. It struck me, however, that I did indeed deserve the contempt of M. de Norpois; I had preferred, hitherto, to all other writers, one whom he styled a mere ‘flute-player’ and a positive rapture had been conveyed to me, not by any important idea, but by a mouldy smell.
在回家的路上，我突然想起了之前一直隐藏着的印象，在没有让我区分或认出的情况下，格子凉亭的冰冷、几乎是煤烟的气味把我带向了它。那是我舅舅阿道夫在贡布雷的小客厅，里面确实也散发着同样的潮湿气味。但我无法理解，我推迟了尝试去探究为什么回想起如此琐碎的印象会给我带来如此强烈的幸福。然而，我突然意识到，我确实值得德·诺布瓦先生的蔑视。迄今为止，我比所有其他作家更喜欢他，他称他为一名纯粹的“长笛演奏者”，一种积极的狂喜向我传达，不是通过任何重要的想法，而是通过一种发霉的气味。

For some time past, in certain households, the name of the Champs-Elysées, if a visitor mentioned it, would be greeted by the mother of the family with that air of contempt which mothers keep for a physician of established reputation whom they have (or so they make out) seen make too many false diagnoses to have any faith left in him; people insisted that these gardens were not good for children, that they knew of more than one sore throat, more than one case of measles and any number of feverish chills for which the Champs must be held responsible. Without venturing openly to doubt the maternal affection of Mamma, who continued to let me play there, several of her friends deplored her inability to see what was as plain as daylight.
过去一段时间，在某些家庭里，如果有访客提到香榭丽舍大街的名字，家里的母亲就会带着蔑视的神情，就像母亲们对待自己拥有的声誉卓著的医生一样。或者说，他们发现，他们做出了太多错误的诊断，以致对他失去了任何信心；人们坚持认为这些花园不适合儿童，他们知道不止一例喉咙痛，不止一例麻疹病例和无数发烧寒战，这些都必须由香榭丽舍大街负责。她的几个朋友并没有公开怀疑妈妈的母爱，她继续让我在那里玩耍，但她的几个朋友对她无法看到像白天一样简单的事情表示遗憾。

Neurotic subjects are perhaps less addicted than any, despite the time-honoured phrase, to ‘listening to their insides’: they can hear so many things going on inside themselves, by which they realise later that they did wrong to let themselves be alarmed, that they end by paying no attention to any of them. Their nervous systems have so often cried out to them for help, as though from some serious malady, when it was merely because snow was coming, or because they had to change their rooms, that they have acquired the habit of paying no more heed to these warnings than a soldier who in the heat of battle perceives them so little that he is capable, although dying, of carrying on for some days still the life of a man in perfect health. One morning, bearing arranged within me all my regular disabilities, from whose constant, internal circulation I kept my mind turned as resolutely away as from the circulation of my blood, I had come running into the dining-room where my parents were already at table, and—having assured myself, as usual, that to feel cold may mean not that one ought to warm oneself but that, for instance, one has received a scolding, and not to feel hungry that it is going to rain, and not that one ought not to eat anything—had taken my place between them when, in the act of swallowing the first mouthful of a particularly tempting cutlet, a nausea, a giddiness stopped me, the feverish reaction of a malady that had already begun, the symptoms of which had been masked, retarded by the ice of my indifference, but which obstinately refused the nourishment that I was not in a fit state to absorb. Then, at the same moment, the thought that they would stop me from going out if they saw that I was unwell gave me, as the instinct of self-preservation gives a wounded man, the strength to crawl to my own room, where I found that I had a temperature of 104, and then to get ready to go to the Champs-Elysées. Through the languid and vulnerable shell which encased them, my eager thoughts were urging me towards, were clamouring for the soothing delight of a game of prisoner’s base with Gilberte, and an hour later, barely able to keep on my feet, but happy in being by her side, I had still the strength to enjoy it.
尽管有句历史悠久的短语，但神经质的受试者可能比任何人都更不沉迷于“倾听自己的内心”：他们可以听到自己内心发生的很多事情，通过这些事情，他们后来意识到自己做错了，让自己感到惊慌，他们最终没有注意到其中任何一个。他们的神经系统经常向他们呼救，就好像得了某种严重的疾病一样，而仅仅是因为下雪了，或者因为他们不得不换房间，他们已经养成了不再理会的习惯。这些警告比一个在激烈的战斗中对这些警告知之甚少的士兵要少得多，以至于他虽然濒临死亡，但仍能在几天内以完全健康的方式继续过着正常人的生活。一天早上，我身上带着所有常见的残疾，我的思绪坚决地远离了身体不断的内部循环，就像远离了我的血液循环一样，我跑进了餐厅，我的父母已经在餐桌旁了。 ，并且——像往常一样向自己保证，感到寒冷可能并不意味着一个人应该取暖，而是意味着，例如，一个人受到了责骂，并且不会因为要下雨而感到饥饿，而不是因为要下雨而感到饥饿。一个人不应该吃任何东西——在我吞下第一口特别诱人的肉排时，我站在他们中间，恶心、头晕阻止了我，一种已经开始的疾病的发烧反应，症状它被我的冷漠所掩盖和阻碍，但它顽固地拒绝了我不适合吸收的营养。 然后，在同一时刻，如果他们看到我身体不适，他们就会阻止我出去，这给了我力量，就像自我保护的本能给了一个受伤的人一样，我有力量爬到自己的房间，在那里我发现我的体温达到104度，然后准备去香榭丽舍大街。透过包裹着他们的慵懒而脆弱的外壳，我热切的思绪催促着我，大声呼唤着与希尔贝特进行一场囚犯基地游戏的舒缓愉悦，一个小时后，我几乎无法站起来，但很高兴在她身边，我还有力气去享受。

Françoise, on our return, declared that I had been ‘taken bad,’ that I must have caught a ‘hot and cold,’ while the doctor, who was called in at once, declared that he ‘preferred’ the ‘severity,’ the ‘virulence’ of the rush of fever which accompanied my congestion of the lungs, and would be no more than ‘a fire of straw,’ to other forms, more ‘insidious’ and ‘septic.’ For some time now I had been liable to choking fits, and our doctor, braving the disapproval of my grandmother, who could see me already dying a drunkard’s death, had recommended me to take, as well as the caffeine which had been prescribed to help me to breathe, beer, champagne or brandy when I felt an attack coming. These attacks would subside, he told me, in the ‘euphoria’ brought about by the alcohol. I was often obliged, so that my grandmother should allow them to give it to me, instead of dissembling, almost to make a display of my state of suffocation. On the other hand, as soon as I felt an attack coming, never being quite certain what proportions it would assume, I would grow distressed at the thought of my grandmother’s anxiety, of which I was far more afraid than of my own sufferings. But at the same time my body, either because it was too weak to keep those sufferings secret, or because it feared lest, in their ignorance of the imminent disaster, people might demand of me some exertion which it would have found impossible or dangerous, gave me the need to warn my grandmother of my attacks with a punctiliousness into which I finally put a sort of physiological scruple. Did I perceive in myself a disturbing symptom which I had not previously observed, my body was in distress so long as I had not communicated it to my grandmother. Did she pretend to pay no attention, it made me insist. Sometimes I went too far; and that dear face, which was no longer able always to control its emotion as in the past, would allow an expression of pity to appear, a painful contraction. Then my heart was wrung by the sight of her grief; as if my kisses had had power to expel that grief, as if my affection could give my grandmother as much joy as my recovery, I flung myself into her arms. And its scruples being at the same time calmed by the certainty that she now knew the discomfort that I felt, my body offered no opposition to my reassuring her. I protested that this discomfort had been nothing, that I was in no sense to be pitied, that she might be quite sure that I was now happy; my body had wished to secure exactly the amount of pity that it deserved, and, provided that someone knew that it ‘had a pain’ in its right side, it could see no harm in my declaring that this pain was of no consequence and was not an obstacle to my happiness; for my body did not pride itself on its philosophy; that was outside its province. Almost every day during my convalescence I passed through these crises of suffocation. One evening, after my grandmother had left me comparatively well, she returned to my room very late and, seeing me struggling for breath, ‘Oh, my poor boy,’ she exclaimed, her face quivering with sympathy, ‘you are in dreadful pain.’ She left me at once; I heard the outer gate open, and in a little while she came back with some brandy which she had gone out to buy, since there was none in the house. Presently I began to feel better. My grandmother, who was rather flushed, seemed ‘put out’ about something, and her eyes had a look of weariness and dejection.
我们回来后，弗朗索瓦丝宣称我“病得很重”，我一定是得了“感冒和感冒”，而立即被叫来的医生则宣称他“更喜欢”“严重程度”，伴随着我肺部充血的高烧的“毒性”，对于其他形式来说，只不过是“稻草之火”，更加“阴险”和“败血”。容易窒息，而我们的医生冒着祖母的反对，认为我已经像酒鬼一样快要死了，建议我服用帮助我呼吸的咖啡因、啤酒、香槟。当我感觉到攻击即将来临时，或者白兰地。他告诉我，这些攻击会在酒精带来的“欣快感”中消退。我常常不得不让祖母允许他们把它给我，而不是掩饰，几乎是为了展示我的窒息状态。另一方面，一旦我感觉到攻击即将来临，但又不确定攻击的程度，一想到祖母的焦虑，我就会感到痛苦，我对祖母的焦虑远比我自己的痛苦更害怕。但与此同时，我的身体，要么是因为它太虚弱，无法将这些痛苦保密，要么是因为它担心，人们对迫在眉睫的灾难一无所知，可能会要求我做一些它认为不可能或危险的努力，我需要谨慎地警告我的祖母我的攻击，我最终对此产生了某种生理上的顾虑。我是否在自己身上察觉到了以前没有观察到的令人不安的症状，只要我没有将其传达给祖母，我的身体就会陷入困境。她是不是装作没在意，这让我坚持不已。 有时我走得太远了；那张可爱的脸，不再像过去那样总是能够控制自己的情绪，会露出怜悯的表情，一种痛苦的收缩。看到她悲伤的样子，我的心一阵揪痛。仿佛我的亲吻有能力驱散悲伤，仿佛我的爱可以给祖母带来和我康复一样多的快乐，我投入了她的怀抱。同时，由于确信她现在知道我所感受到的不适，我的顾虑也随之平静下来，我的身体也没有反对我向她保证。我抗议说这种不舒服没什么，我没有任何意义值得同情，她可能很确定我现在很幸福；但我不认为我会感到不舒服。我的身体希望得到它应得的怜悯，而且，如果有人知道它的右侧“疼痛”，那么我宣布这种疼痛无关紧要并且是正常的，它不会觉得有什么坏处。不成为我幸福的障碍；因为我的身体并不以其哲学而自豪；那是在它的省份之外。在我康复期间，几乎每天都经历着这种窒息的危机。一天晚上，祖母离开我的情况比较好后，很晚才回到我的房间，看到我呼吸困难，她大声说道，“哦，我可怜的孩子，”她的脸因同情而颤抖，“你承受着可怕的痛苦。” ” 她立刻离开了我。我听到外门打开的声音，过了一会儿，她带着一些白兰地回来了，这是她出去买的，因为家里没有。不久我开始感觉好多了。奶奶脸色有些红，似乎因为什么事情而“不高兴”，眼神里流露出疲倦和沮丧的神情。

‘I shall leave you alone now, and let you get the good of this improvement,’ she said, rising suddenly to go. I detained her, however, for a kiss, and could feel on her cold cheek something moist, but did not know whether it was the dampness of the night air through which she had just passed. Next day, she did not come to my room until the evening, having had, she told me, to go out. I considered that this shewed a surprising indifference to my welfare, and I had to restrain myself so as not to reproach her with it.
“我现在就不打扰你了，让你从这次进步中得到好处，”她说着突然起身要走。然而，我却留住了她，吻了她一下，感觉到她冰冷的脸颊上有某种湿润的东西，但不知道是否是她刚刚经过的夜晚空气的潮湿。第二天，她直到晚上才来到我的房间，她告诉我，她要出去。我认为这对我的福利表现出惊人的漠视，我必须克制自己，以免责备她。

As my chokings had persisted long after any congestion remained that could account for them, my parents asked for a consultation with Professor Cottard. It is not enough that a physician who is called in to treat cases of this sort should be learned. Brought face to face with symptoms which may or may not be those of three or four different complaints, it is in the long run his instinct, his eye that must decide with which, despite the more or less similar appearance of them all, he has to deal. This mysterious gift does not imply any superiority in the other departments of the intellect, and a creature of the utmost vulgarity, who admires the worst pictures, the worst music, in whose mind there is nothing out of the common, may perfectly well possess it. In my case, what was physically evident might equally well have been due to nervous spasms, to the first stages of tuberculosis, to asthma, to a toxi-alimentary dyspnoea with renal insufficiency, to chronic bronchitis, or to a complex state into which more than one of these factors entered. Now, nervous spasms required to be treated firmly, and discouraged, tuberculosis with infinite care and with a ‘feeding-up’ process which would have been bad for an arthritic condition such as asthma, and might indeed have been dangerous in a case of toxi-alimentary dyspnoea, this last calling for a strict diet which, in return, would be fatal to a tuberculous patient. But Cottard’s hesitations were brief and his prescriptions imperious. ‘Purges; violent and drastic purges; milk for some days, nothing but milk. No meat. No alcohol.’ My mother murmured that I needed, all the same, to be ‘built up,’ that my nerves were already weak, that drenching me like a horse and restricting my diet would make me worse. I could see in Cottard’s eyes, as uneasy as though he were afraid of missing a train, that he was asking himself whether he had not allowed his natural good-humour to appear. He was trying to think whether he had remembered to put on his mask of coldness, as one looks for a mirror to see whether one has not forgotten to tie one’s tie. In his uncertainty, and, so as, whatever he had done, to put things right, he replied brutally: ‘I am not in the habit of repeating my instructions. Give me a pen. Now remember, milk! Later on, when we have got the crises and the agrypnia by the throat, I should like you to take a little clear soup, and then a little broth, but always with milk; au lait! You’ll enjoy that, since Spain is all the rage just now; ollé, ollé!’ His pupils knew this joke well, for he made it at the hospital whenever he had to put a heart or liver case on a milk diet. ‘After that, you will gradually return to your normal life. But whenever there is any coughing or choking—purges, injections, bed, milk!’ He listened with icy calm, and without uttering a word, to my mother’s final objections, and as he left us without having condescended to explain the reasons for this course of treatment, my parents concluded that it had no bearing on my case, and would weaken me to no purpose, and so they did not make me try it. Naturally they sought to conceal their disobedience from the Professor, and to succeed in this avoided all the houses in which he was likely to be found. Then, as my health became worse, they decided to make me follow out Cottard’s prescriptions to the letter; in three days my ‘rattle’ and cough had ceased, I could breathe freely. Whereupon we realised that Cottard, while finding, as he told us later on, that I was distinctly asthmatic, and still more inclined to ‘imagine things,’ had seen that what was really the matter with me at the moment was intoxication, and that by loosening my liver and washing out my kidneys he would get rid of the congestion of my bronchial tubes and thus give me back my breath, my sleep and my strength. And we realised that this imbecile was a clinical genius. At last I was able to get up. But they spoke of not letting me go any more to the Champs-Elysées. They said that it was because the air there was bad; but I felt sure that this was only a pretext so that I should not see Mlle. Swann, and I forced myself to repeat the name of Gilberte all the time, like the native tongue which peoples in captivity endeavour to preserve among themselves so as not to forget the land that they will never see again. Sometimes my mother would stroke my forehead with her hand, saying: ‘So little boys don’t tell Mamma their troubles any more?’ And Françoise used to come up to me every day with: ‘What a face, to be sure! If you could just see yourself I Anyone would think there was a corpse in the house.’ It is true that, if I had simply had a cold in the head, Françoise would have assumed the same funereal air. These lamentations pertained rather to her ‘class’ than to the state of my health. I could not at the time discover whether this pessimism was due to sorrow or to satisfaction. I decided provisionally that it was social and professional.
由于在任何可能导致窒息的情况发生后，我的窒息现象仍然持续了很长时间，因此我的父母要求咨询科塔德教授。被请来治疗此类病例的医生仅仅有学识是不够的。面对可能是也可能不是三四种不同症状的症状，从长远来看，他的本能和他的眼睛必须决定用哪一种，尽管它们的外观或多或少相似。交易，处理。这种神秘的天赋并不意味着在智力的其他方面有任何优越性，一个极其粗俗的人，欣赏最糟糕的图片、最糟糕的音乐，在他的头脑中没有什么不寻常的东西，可能完全拥有它。就我而言，身体上明显的症状可能同样是由于神经痉挛、结核病的第一阶段、哮喘、肾功能不全引起的中毒性消化性呼吸困难、慢性支气管炎或一种复杂的状态所致。比输入的这些因素之一。现在，神经痉挛需要坚决治疗，并且要以无限的护理和“喂养”过程来坚决治疗结核病，这对于哮喘等关节炎疾病来说是不利的，而且在中毒的情况下确实可能是危险的- 消化性呼吸困难，这最后需要严格的饮食，而这对于结核病患者来说可能是致命的。但科塔尔的犹豫很短暂，他的处方也很专横。 ‘清洗；暴力和激烈的清洗；喝了几天牛奶，除了牛奶什么也没有。没有肉。不喝酒。”我母亲低声说，尽管如此，我还是需要“振作起来”，我的神经已经很虚弱，像马一样把我淋湿并限制我的饮食会让我变得更糟。 我可以从科塔尔的眼神中看到，他的不安就像害怕错过火车一样，他在问自己是否没有让他天生的好脾气显现出来。他在思考自己是否记得戴上冰冷的面具，就像照镜子看是否忘记打领带一样。在他的不确定性中，无论他做了什么，为了纠正事情，他残酷地回答：“我没有重复我的指示的习惯。给我一支笔。现在记住，牛奶！稍后，当我们遇到危机和喉咙痛时，我希望你喝一点清汤，然后一点肉汤，但总是加牛奶；欧蕾！你会喜欢的，因为西班牙现在很流行；哦，哦！”他的学生们都很熟悉这个笑话，因为每当他不得不用牛奶来治疗心脏或肝脏病例时，他就会在医院里讲这个笑话。 ‘之后，你就会逐渐恢复正常的生活。但每当咳嗽或窒息时——通便、打针、卧床、喝牛奶！”他冷冷地、一言不发地听着我母亲最后的反对意见，然后就离开了我们，也没有屈尊解释原因。治疗过程中，我的父母认为这对我的病情没有影响，而且只会让我的身体虚弱，所以他们没有让我尝试。自然地，他们试图向教授隐瞒自己的不服从行为，并成功避开了所有可能发现他的房子。然后，随着我的健康状况恶化，他们决定让我严格遵循科塔尔的处方。三天后，我的“嘎嘎声”和咳嗽停止了，我可以自由呼吸了。 于是我们意识到，正如科塔尔后来告诉我们的那样，他发现我明显患有哮喘，并且更倾向于“想象事情”，但他已经看到我此刻真正的问题是中毒，而且通过放松我的肝脏和清洗我的肾脏，他可以消除我支气管的堵塞，从而使我恢复呼吸、睡眠和体力。我们意识到这个白痴是一位临床天才。我终于能站起来了。但他们说不再让我去香榭丽舍大街了。他们说是因为那里的空气不好；但我确信这只是一个借口，以免我见到小姐。斯旺和我强迫自己一直重复吉尔贝特的名字，就像被囚禁的人们努力保留的母语一样，以免忘记他们再也见不到的土地。有时我母亲会用手抚摸我的额头，说：“小男孩们不再告诉妈妈他们的烦恼了吗？”弗朗索瓦丝每天都会来找我，说：“当然，这是一张多么好的脸啊！”如果你能看到自己，我任何人都会认为房子里有一具尸体。”确实，如果我只是头部感冒，弗朗索瓦丝也会表现出同样的葬礼气氛。这些哀叹更多的是与她的“阶级”有关，而不是与我的健康状况有关。我当时无法判断这种悲观情绪是出于悲伤还是出于满足。我暂时认为这是社交和专业的。

One day, after the postman had called, my mother laid a letter upon my bed. I opened it carelessly, since it could not bear the one signature that would have made me happy, the name of Gilberte, with whom I had no relations outside the Champs-Elysées. And lo, at the foot of the page, embossed with a silver seal representing a man’s head in a helmet, and under him a scroll with the device Per viam rectam, beneath a letter written in a large and flowing hand, in which almost every word appeared to be underlined, simply because the crosses of the ‘t’s’ ran not across but over them, and so drew a line beneath the corresponding letters of the word above, it was indeed Gilberte’s signature and nothing else that I saw. But because I knew that to be impossible upon a letter addressed to myself, the sight of it, unaccompanied by any belief in it, gave me no pleasure. For a moment it merely struck an impression of unreality on everything round about me. With lightning rapidity the impossible signature danced about my bed, the fireplace, the four walls. I saw everything sway, as one does when one falls from a horse, and I asked myself whether there was not an existence altogether different from the one I knew, in direct contradiction of it, but itself the true existence, which, being suddenly revealed to me, filled me with that hesitation which sculptors, in representing the Last Judgment, have given to the awakening dead who find themselves at the gates of the next world. ‘My dear Friend,’ said the letter, ‘I hear that you have been very ill and have given up going to the Champs-Eîysées. I hardly ever go there either because there has been such an enormous lot of illness. But I’m having my friends to tea here every Monday and Friday. Mamma asks me to tell you that it will be a great pleasure to us all if you will come too, as soon as you are well again, and we can have some more nice talks here, just like the Champs-Elysées. Good-bye, dear friend; I hope that your parents will allow you to come to tea very often. With all my kindest regards. GILBERTE.’
有一天，邮递员打来电话后，母亲把一封信放在我的床上。我漫不经心地打开了它，因为它上面没有一个能让我高兴的签名，那就是希尔贝特的名字，我和她在香榭丽舍大街之外没有任何关系。瞧，在这页的底部，浮雕着一个银色印章，代表一个戴着头盔的人的头，在他下面有一个卷轴，上面写着“Per viamectam”，下面是一封用大而流畅的手写的信，其中几乎每个人都写了一封信。这个词似乎有下划线，只是因为“t”的十字不是横跨它们，而是在它们上面，所以在上面这个词的相应字母下面画了一条线，这确实是吉尔贝特的签名，我没有看到其他任何东西。但因为我知道这对于一封写给自己的信来说是不可能的，所以看到这封信，如果不相信它，我并没有感到高兴。有一瞬间，我周围的一切都只留下了一种不真实的印象。这个不可能的签名以闪电般的速度在我的床、壁炉、四堵墙周围舞动。我看到一切都在摇晃，就像一个人从马上摔下来时一样，我问自己，是否存在一种与我所知道的完全不同、与之直接矛盾的存在，而它本身就是真实的存在，突然被揭示出来对我来说，这让我充满了犹豫，就像雕塑家在代表最后的审判时，对那些发现自己处于下一个世界门口的觉醒的死者所表现出的犹豫一样。 “我亲爱的朋友，”信中写道，“我听说你病得很重，已经放弃去香榭丽舍大街了。我也很少去那里，因为那里有很多疾病。但我每周一和周五都会邀请我的朋友来这里喝茶。 妈妈让我告诉你，如果你康复后也能来，我们大家都会非常高兴，我们可以在这里进行一些更愉快的谈话，就像在香榭丽舍大街一样。再见，亲爱的朋友；我希望你的父母允许你经常来喝茶。谨致我最诚挚的问候。吉尔伯特。’

While I was reading these words, my nervous system was receiving, with admirable promptitude, the news that a piece of great good fortune had befallen me. But my mind, that is to say myself, and in fact the party principally concerned, was still in ignorance. Such good fortune, coming from Gilberte, was a thing of which I had never ceased to dream; a thing wholly in my mind, it was, as Leonardo says of painting, cosa mentale. Now, a sheet of paper covered with writing is not a thing that the mind assimilates at once. But as soon as I had finished reading the letter, I thought of it, it became an object of my dreams, became, it also, cosa mentale, and I loved it so much already that every few minutes I must read it, kiss it again. Then at last I was conscious of my happiness.
当我读到这些文字时，我的神经系统以令人钦佩的敏捷性接收到了一个巨大的好运降临到我身上的消息。但我的思想，也就是说我自己，事实上主要有关的当事人，仍然处于无知之中。希尔贝特给我带来这样的好运，是我一直梦想的事情。这件事完全在我的脑海里，正如列奥纳多谈到绘画时所说的那样，“cosa mentale”。现在，一张写满文字的纸并不是心灵能够立即吸收的东西。但当我读完这封信后，我想到了它，它成为了我梦想的对象，也成为了 cosa mentale，我已经非常喜欢它了，每隔几分钟我就必须读它，亲吻它再次。然后我终于意识到我的幸福。

Life is strewn with these miracles, for which people who are in love can always hope. It is possible that this one had been artificially brought about by my mother who, seeing that for some time past I had lost all interest in life, may have suggested to Gilberte to write to me, just as, when I was little and went first to the sea-side, so as to give me some pleasure in bathing, which I detested because it took away my breath, she used secretly to hand to the man who was to ‘dip’ me marvellous boxes made of shells, and branches of coral, which I believed that I myself had discovered lying at the bottom of the sea. However, with every occurrence which, in our life and among its contrasted situations, bears any relation to love, it is best to make no attempt to understand it, since in so far as these are inexorable, as they are unlooked-for, they appear to be governed by magic rather than by rational laws. When a multi-millionaire—who for all his millions is quite a charming person—sent packing by a poor and unattractive woman with whom he has been living, calls to his aid, in his desperation, all the resources of wealth, and brings every worldly influence to bear without succeeding in making her take him back, it is wiser for him, in the face of the implacable obstinacy of his mistress, to suppose that Fate intends to crush him, and to make him die of an affection of the heart, than to seek any logical explanation. These obstacles, against which lovers have to contend, and which their imagination, over-excited by suffering, seeks in vain to analyse, are contained, as often as not, in some peculiar characteristic of the woman whom they cannot bring back to themselves, in her stupidity, in the influence acquired over her, the fears suggested to her by people whom the lover does not know, in the kind of pleasures which, at the moment, she is demanding of life, pleasures which neither her lover nor her lover’s wealth can procure for her. In any event, the lover is scarcely in a position to discover the nature of these obstacles, which her woman’y cunning hides from him and his own judgment, falsified by love, prevents him from estimating exactly. They may be compared with those tumours which the doctor succeeds in reducing, but without having traced them to their source. Like them these obstacles remain mysterious but are temporary. Only they last, as a rule, longer than love itself. And as that is not a disinterested passion, the lover who is no longer in love does not seek to know why the woman, neither rich nor virtuous, with whom he was in love refused obstinately for years to let him continue to keep her.
生活中充满了这些奇迹，相爱的人总是可以期盼这些奇迹。这可能是我母亲人为造成的，她看到我一段时间以来对生活失去了所有兴趣，可能建议希尔贝特给我写信，就像我小时候第一个走的时候一样。到海边，为了给我洗澡带来一些乐趣，我讨厌洗澡，因为它夺走我的呼吸，她常常偷偷地交给那个要给我“浸泡”的人，用贝壳和树枝制成的奇妙盒子。珊瑚，我相信是我自己在海底发现的。然而，在我们的生活中，以及在其对比鲜明的情况下，每一件与爱情有关的事件，最好不要试图去理解它，因为就这些事件而言，它们是不可阻挡的，因为它们是不被期待的，它们似乎是受魔法而非理性法则支配。当一位千万富翁——尽管他身家数百万，但却是一位相当有魅力的人——被一个与他同居的贫穷、毫无魅力的女人打发走时，在绝望中，他求助于所有的财富资源，并带来了所有的财富。面对他情妇的顽固固执，他更明智的做法是假设命运打算压垮他，让他死于内心的感情。 ，而不是寻求任何合乎逻辑的解释。 这些障碍是恋人们必须克服的障碍，他们的想象力因痛苦而过度兴奋，徒劳地试图分析这些障碍，这些障碍往往包含在女人的某些特殊特征中，而他们却无法将这些特征带回自己身边。在她的愚蠢中，在对她产生的影响中，在情人不认识的人向她暗示的恐惧中，在她此刻对生活要求的那种快乐中，这些快乐既不是她的爱人，也不是她的爱人。财富可以为她带来。无论如何，情人几乎无法发现这些障碍的本质，她女人的狡猾向他隐瞒了这些障碍，而他自己的判断被爱所歪曲，使他无法准确估计。它们可以与医生成功减少的肿瘤进行比较，但没有追踪到它们的来源。和它们一样，这些障碍仍然神秘，但却是暂时的。一般来说，只有它们比爱情本身持续得更久。由于这不是一种无私的激情，不再相爱的情人不会寻求知道为什么他所爱的那个既不富有又不贤惠的女人多年来一直顽固地拒绝让他继续保留她。

Now the same mystery which often veils from our eyes the reason for a catastrophe, when love is in question, envelops just as frequently the suddenness of certain happy solutions, such as had come to me with Gilberte’s letter. Happy, or at least seemingly happy, for there are few solutions that can really be happy when we are dealing with a sentiment of such a kind that every satisfaction which we can bring to it does no more, as a rule, than dislodge some pain. And yet sometimes a respite is granted us, and we have for a little while the illusion that we are healed.
现在，当爱情受到质疑时，同样的谜团常常掩盖了我们眼中发生灾难的原因，也同样频繁地笼罩着某些幸福解决方案的突然出现，例如希尔贝特的信给我带来的情况。快乐，或者至少看起来快乐，因为当我们处理这样一种情绪时，几乎没有什么解决方案可以真正快乐，即我们所能带来的每一种满足通常都只是消除一些痛苦。 。然而有时我们会得到喘息的机会，我们会暂时产生一种自己已经痊愈的错觉。

So far as concerns this letter, at the foot of which Françoise declined to recognise Gilberte’s name, because the elaborate capital ‘G’ leaning against the undotted ‘i’ looked more like an ‘A,’ while the final syllable was indefinitely prolonged by a waving flourish, if we persist in looking for a rational explanation of the sudden reversal of her attitude towards me which it indicated, and which made me so radiantly happy, we may perhaps find that I was to some extent indebted for it to an incident which I should have supposed, on the contrary, to be calculated to ruin me for ever in the sight of the Swann family. A short while back, Bloch had come to see me at a time when Professor Cottard, whom, now that I was following his instructions, we were again calling in, happened to be in my room. As his examination of me was over, and he was sitting with me simply as a visitor because my parents had invited him to stay to dinner, Bloch was allowed to come in. While we were all talking, Bloch having mentioned that he had heard it said that Mme. Swann was very fond of me, by a lady with whom he had been dining the day before, who was herself very intimate with Mme. Swann, I should have liked to reply that he was most certainly mistaken, and to establish the fact (from the same scruple of conscience that had made me proclaim it to M. de Norpois, and for fear of Mme. Swann’s taking me for a liar) that I did not know her and had never spoken to her. But I had not the courage to correct Bloch’s mistake, because I could see quite well that it was deliberate, and that, if he invented something that Mme. Swann could not possibly have said, it was simply to let us know (what he considered flattering to himself, and was not true either) that he had been dining with one of that lady’s friends. And so it fell out that, whereas M. de Norpois, on learning that I did not know but would very much like to know Mme. Swann, had taken great care to avoid speaking to her about me, Cottard, who was her doctor also, having gathered from what he had heard Bloch say that she knew me quite well and thought highly of me, concluded that to remark, when next he saw her, that I was a charming young fellow and a great friend of his could not be of the smallest use to me and would be of advantage to himself, two reasons which made him decide to speak of me to Odette whenever an opportunity arose.
就这封信而言，弗朗索瓦丝拒绝认出吉尔贝特的名字，因为精致的大写字母“G”靠在不带点的“i”上，看起来更像是“A”，而最后一个音节被无限期地延长了一个挥舞着华丽的花朵，如果我们坚持寻找一个合理的解释来解释她对我的态度的突然转变，这让我如此高兴，我们也许会发现，我在某种程度上要归功于那件事相反，我本应该认为，在斯万家族的眼中，他们会永远毁掉我。不久前，布洛赫来看我，当时科塔德教授恰好在我的房间里，现在我按照他的指示，我们再次拜访了他。当他对我的检查结束后，他只是作为一个访客坐在我身边，因为我的父母邀请他留下来吃晚饭，布洛赫被允许进来。当我们都在说话时，布洛赫提到他已经听到了女士说。斯万非常喜欢我，因为前一天和他一起吃饭的一位女士很喜欢我，而她本人也和斯旺夫人非常亲密。斯万，我本想回答他肯定是错的，并证实这一事实（出于同样的良心顾虑，我曾向德·诺布瓦先生宣布这一点，并且担心斯万夫人把我当成一个骗子）我不认识她，也从未和她说过话。但我没有勇气纠正布洛赫的错误，因为我很清楚这是故意的，而且，如果他发明了一些东西，布洛赫夫人就会发现。 斯万不可能说，这只是为了让我们知道（他认为这是对自己的奉承，但也不是真的）他一直在和那位女士的一位朋友一起吃饭。结果是，德·诺普瓦女士得知我不认识但非常想认识我。斯万非常小心地避免与她谈论我，科塔尔也是她的医生，从他听到布洛赫所说的情况来看，她很了解我，并且对我评价很高，得出结论，要评论，当下次他看到了她，我是一个迷人的年轻人，他的好朋友对我来说没有丝毫用处，但对他自己却有好处，这两个原因使他决定一有机会就向奥黛特谈论我。

Thus at length I found my way into that abode from which was wafted even on to the staircase the scent that Mme. Swann used, though it was embalmed far more sweetly still by the peculiar, disturbing charm that emanated from the life of Gilberte. The implacable porter, transformed into a benevolent Eumenid, adopted the custom, when I asked him if I might go upstairs, of indicating to me, by raising his cap with a propitious hand, that he gave ear to my prayer. Those windows which, seen from outside, used to interpose between me and the treasures within, which were not intended for me, a polished, distant and superficial stare, which seemed to me the very stare of the Swanns themselves, it fell to my lot, when in the warm weather I had spent a whole afternoon with Gilberte in her room, to open them myself, so as to let in a little air, and even to lean over the sill of one of them by her side, if it was her mother’s ‘at home’ day, to watch the visitors arrive who would often, raising their heads as they stepped out of their carriages, greet me with a wave of the hand, taking me for some nephew of their hostess. At such moments Gilberte’s plaits used to brush my cheek. They seemed to me, in the fineness of their grain, at once natural and supernatural, and in the strength of their constructed tracery, a matchless work of art, in the composition of which had been used the very grass of Paradise. To a section of them, even infinitely minute, what celestial herbary would I not have given as a reliquary. But since I never hoped to obtain an actual fragment of those plaits, if at least I had been able to have their photograph, how far more precious than one of a sheet of flowers traced by Vinci’s pencil! To acquire one of these, I stooped—with friends of the Swanns, and even with photographers—to servilities which did not procure for me what I wanted, but tied me for life to a number of extremely tiresome people.
就这样，我终于找到了进入那个住所的路，从那里，夫人的气味甚至飘到了楼梯上。斯万使用过，尽管吉尔贝特生活中散发出的奇特的、令人不安的魅力使它更加甜蜜。当我问他是否可以上楼时，那位铁石心肠的门房变成了仁慈的欧迈尼德，他采用了这个习惯，用一只吉祥的手举起帽子，示意我他听了我的祈祷。从外面看去，那些窗户曾经把我和里面的宝藏隔在中间，但它们并不是为我准备的，一种抛光的、遥远的、肤浅的凝视，在我看来，这正是斯旺一家人自己的凝视，它落到了我的份上。天气暖和的时候，我和希尔贝特在她的房间里度过了整个下午，我亲自打开它们，让一点空气进来，甚至靠在她身边其中一个窗户的窗台上，如果是的话她母亲的“在家”日，看着来访者到来，他们走出马车时常常抬起头，挥手向我打招呼，把我当成女主人的侄子。在这种时候，希尔贝特的辫子常常拂过我的脸颊。在我看来，它们的纹理细腻，既自然又超自然，而且其构造的窗花的强度，是一件无与伦比的艺术品，其构图中使用了天堂的草。对于其中的一部分，即使是无限微小的，我也愿意将天上的草药库作为圣物箱。但由于我从未希望获得这些辫子的实际碎片，如果至少我能够拍到它们的照片，那比用芬奇的铅笔描绘的一朵花珍贵得多！ 为了得到其中一件，我和斯旺一家的朋友们，甚至还有摄影师一起，卑躬屈膝，但这些并没有为我带来我想要的东西，而是将我一生与一些极其讨厌的人绑在一起。

Gilberte’s parents, who for so long had prevented me from seeing her, now—when I entered the dark hall in which hovered perpetually, more formidable and more to be desired than, at Versailles of old, the apparition of the King, the possibility of my encountering them, in which too, invariably, after butting into an enormous hat-stand with seven branches, like the Candlestick in Holy Writ, I would begin bowing confusedly before a footman, seated among the skirts of his long grey coat upon the wood-box, whom in the dim light I had mistaken for Mme. Swann—Gilberte’s parents, if one of them happened to be passing at the moment of my arrival, so far from seeming annoyed would come and shake hands with a smile, and say:
希尔贝特的父母长期以来一直阻止我见到她，现在，当我走进黑暗的大厅时，里面永远盘旋着，比旧时的凡尔赛宫更令人畏惧，更令人向往，国王的幻影，我遇到他们时，也总是在撞到一个巨大的有七个分支的帽架后，就像圣经中的烛台一样，我会开始困惑地向一个男仆鞠躬，男仆坐在木头上的长灰色外套的裙子之间-盒子，在昏暗的灯光下我误认为她是夫人。斯万——吉尔贝特的父母，如果我到达的时候他们中的一个碰巧路过，他们绝不会显得生气，他们会过来微笑着握手，说：

‘How d’e do?’ (They both pronounced it in the same clipped way, which, you may well imagine, once I was back at home, I made an incessant and delightful practice of copying.) ‘Does Gilberte know you’re here? She does? Then I’ll leave you to her.’
“How d'e do？”（他们都以同样简洁的方式发音，你可以想象，我一回到家，我就不停地进行令人愉快的抄写练习。）“希尔贝特认识你吗？”在这儿吗？她有吗？那我就把你留给她了。

Better still, the tea-parties themselves to which Gilberte invited her friends, parties which for so long had seemed to me the most insurmountable of the barriers heaped up between her and myself, became now an opportunity for uniting us of which she would inform me in a few lines, written (because I was still a comparative stranger) upon sheets that were always different. One was adorned with a poodle embossed in blue, above a fantastic inscription in English with an exclamation mark after it; another was stamped with an anchor, or with the monogram G. S. preposterously elongated in a rectangle which ran from top to bottom of the page, or else with the name Gilberte, now traced across one corner in letters of gold which imitated my friend’s signature and ended in a flourish, beneath an open umbrella printed in black, now enclosed in a monogram in the shape of a Chinaman’s hat, which contained all the letters of the word in capitals without its being possible to make out a single one of them. At last, as the series of different writing-papers which Gilberte possessed, numerous as it might be, was not unlimited, after a certain number of weeks I saw reappear the sheet that bore (like the first letter she had written me) the motto Per vaim rectam, and over it the man’s head in a helmet, set in a medallion of tarnished silver. And each of them was chosen, on one day rather than another, by virtue of a certain ritual, as I then supposed, but more probably, as I now think, because she tried to remember which of them she had already used, so as never to send the same one twice to any of her correspondents, of those at least whom she took special pains to please, save at the longest possible intervals. As, on account of the different times of their lessons, some of the friends whom Gilberte used to invite to her parties were obliged to leave just as the rest were arriving, while I was still on the stairs I could hear escaping from the hall a murmur of voices which, such was the emotion aroused in me by the imposing ceremony in which I was to take part, long before I had reached the landing, broke all the bonds that still held me to my past life, so that I did not even remember that I was to take off my muffler as soon as I felt too hot, and to keep an eye on the clock so as not to be late in getting home. That staircase, besides, aîl of wood, as they were built about that time in certain houses, in keeping with that Henri II style which had for so long been Odette’s ideal though she was shortly to lose interest in it, and furnished with a placard, to which there was no equivalent at home, on which one read the words: ‘NOTICE. The lift must not be taken downstairs,’ seemed to me a thing so marvellous that I told my parents that it was an ancient staircase brought from ever so far away by M. Swann. My regard for the truth was so great that I should not have hesitated to give them this information even if I had known it to be false, for it alone could enable them to feel for the dignity of the Swanns’ staircase the same respect that I felt myself. It was just as, when one is talking to some ignorant person who cannot understand in what the genius of a great physician consists, it is as well not to admit that he does not know how to cure a cold in the head. But since I had no power of observation, since, as a general rule, I never knew either the name or the nature of things that were before my eyes, and could understand only that when they were connected with the Swanns they must be extraordinary, I was by no means certain that in notifying my parents of the artistic value and remote origin of the staircase I was guilty of falsehood. It did not seem certain; but it must have seemed probable, for I felt myself turn very red when my father interrupted me with: ‘I know those houses; I have been in one; they are all alike; Swann just has several floors in one; it was Berlier built them all.’ He added that he had thought of taking a flat in one of them, but that he had changed his mind, finding that they were not conveniently arranged, and that the landings were too dark. So he said; but I felt instinctively that my mind must make the sacrifices necessary to the glory of the Swanns and to my own happiness, and by a stroke of internal authority, in spite of what I had just heard, I banished for ever from my memory, as a good Catholic banishes Renan’s Vie de Jésus, the destroying thought that their house was just an ordinary flat in which we ourselves might have been living.
更好的是，希尔贝特邀请她的朋友们参加的茶会本身，长期以来，在我看来，茶会是她和我之间堆积起来的最难以逾越的障碍，现在却成为我们团结起来的机会，她会通知我几行字，写在总是不同的纸上（因为我还是一个相对陌生的人）。其中一个装饰着一只狮子狗，上面有蓝色浮雕，上面有一个奇妙的英文铭文，后面有一个感叹号；另一张上面印着一个锚，或者印有字母组合G.S.，它被荒谬地拉长成一个从上到下的矩形，或者是吉尔伯特这个名字，现在在一个角上用金色字母描画，模仿我朋友的签名，最后结束在一把打开的黑色印刷雨伞下，伞上盛满了花朵，雨伞现在被一个中国人帽子形状的字母组合所包围，其中包含了这个词的所有大写字母，但不可能辨认出其中的任何一个。最后，由于希尔贝特拥有的一系列不同的书写纸，虽然数量众多，但并不是无限的，几周后我看到重新出现了那张写有座右铭的纸（就像她写给我的第一封信一样） Per vaim 直肠，上面是戴着头盔的男人的头，头盔上镶嵌着一块失去光泽的银质徽章。正如我当时所认为的那样，它们中的每一个都是在某一天而不是另一天被选择的，凭借某种仪式，但更可能的是，正如我现在所想，因为她试图记住她已经使用过其中的哪一个，以便绝不会将同一份邮件两次发送给她的任何一位通讯员，至少是那些她特别煞费苦心取悦的人，除非间隔时间尽可能长。 因为，由于上课时间不同，希尔贝特过去邀请参加她的聚会的一些朋友不得不在其他人到达时离开，而当我还在楼梯上时，我可以听到从大厅里逃出来的声音低语的声音，正是在我到达楼梯平台之前，我即将参加的盛大仪式所激起的情感，打破了仍然将我与过去的生活联系在一起的所有束缚，因此我没有甚至记得一感觉太热就脱掉围巾，并留意时钟以免迟到回家。此外，那个楼梯是木头的，因为它们是在当时某些房屋中建造的，符合亨利二世的风格，这种风格长期以来一直是奥黛特的理想风格，尽管她很快就失去了兴趣，并配有标语牌，国内没有类似的东西，上面写着：“注意”。电梯不能下楼，”这对我来说是一件非常奇妙的事情，我告诉我的父母，这是斯旺先生从很远的地方带来的一个古老的楼梯。我对事实的尊重是如此之大，以至于即使我知道这些信息是假的，我也应该毫不犹豫地向他们提供这些信息，因为仅凭这一点就可以让他们感受到斯旺家楼梯的尊严，就像我对斯旺家楼梯的尊重一样。我自己感觉。这就好比，当一个人与一个无知的人交谈时，他无法理解一位伟大医生的天才是什么，最好不要承认他不知道如何治疗头部的感冒。 但由于我没有观察力，因为一般来说，我从来不知道眼前事物的名称或性质，只能理解当它们与斯旺一家联系在一起时，它们一定是非凡的，我完全不确定，在向父母告知楼梯的艺术价值和遥远的起源时，我是否犯了谎言。这似乎并不确定。但这看起来一定是有可能的，因为当父亲打断我说：“我认识那些房子；我曾经参加过其中一个；他们都很相似；斯旺只有几层楼合而为一；他补充说，他曾想过在其中一间公寓租一套公寓，但他改变了主意，发现这些房间布置不方便，而且楼梯平台太暗。所以他说；但我本能地感觉到，我的思想必须为斯旺家族的荣耀和我自己的幸福做出必要的牺牲，并且通过内在的权威的打击，不管我刚刚听到了什么，我永远从我的记忆中消除了，因为一个虔诚的天主教徒会排斥雷南的《耶稣的生活》，因为他们认为他们的房子只是一间普通的公寓，而我们自己也可能住在那里，这种想法具有毁灭性。

Meanwhile on those tea-party days, pulling myself up the staircase step by step, reason and memory already cast off like outer garments, and myself no more now than the sport of the basest reflexes, I would arrive in the zone in which the scent of Mme. Swann greeted my nostrils. I felt that I could already behold the majesty of the chocolate cake, encircled by plates heaped with little cakes, and by tiny napkins of grey damask with figures on them, as required by convention but peculiar to the Swanns. But this unalterable and governed whole seemed, like Kant’s necessary universe, to depend on a supreme act of free will. For when we were all together in Gilberte’s little sitting-room, suddenly she would look at the clock and exclaim:
与此同时，在那些茶会的日子里，我一步步爬上楼梯，理性和记忆已经像外衣一样脱掉，而我自己现在只不过是最基本的反射运动，我会到达气味的区域。女士的。斯旺向我的鼻孔打招呼。我觉得我已经可以看到巧克力蛋糕的威严，周围是堆满小蛋糕的盘子，还有上面有图案的灰色锦缎小餐巾，按照惯例，但这是斯旺一家所特有的。但这个不可改变的、受控制的整体似乎就像康德的必然宇宙一样，依赖于自由意志的最高行为。因为当我们一起在希尔贝特的小客厅里时，她会突然看着时钟并惊呼：

‘I say! It’s getting a long time since luncheon, and we aren’t having dinner till eight. I feel as if I could eat something. What do you say?’
'我说！距离午餐已经过去很长时间了，我们要到八点才能吃晚饭。我感觉好像可以吃点东西了。你怎么说？'

And she would make us go into the dining-room, as sombre as the interior of an Asiatic Temple painted by Rembrandt, in which an architectural cake, as gracious and sociable as it was imposing, seemed to be enthroned there in any event, in case the fancy seized Gilberte to discrown it of its chocolate battlements and to hew down the steep brown slopes of its ramparts, baked in the oven like the bastions of the palace of Darius. Better still, in proceeding to the demolition of that Babylonitish pastry, Gilberte did not consider only her own hunger; she inquired also after mine, while she extracted for me from the crumbling monument a whole glazed slab jewelled with scarlet fruits, in the oriental styje. She asked me even at what o’clock my parents were dining, as if I still knew, as if the disturbance that governed me had allowed to persist the sensation of satiety or of hunger, the notion of dinner or the picture of my family in my empty memory and paralysed stomach. Alas, its paralysis was but momentary. The cakes that I took without noticing them, a time would come when I should have to digest them. But that time was still remote. Meanwhile Gilberte was making ‘my’ tea. I went on drinking it indefinitely, whereas a single cup would keep me awake for twenty-four hours. Which explains why my mother used always to say: ‘What a nuisance it is; he can never go to the Swarms’ without coming home ill.’ But was I aware even, when I was at the Swanns’, that it was tea that I was drinking? Had I known, I should have taken it just the same, for even supposing that I had recovered for a moment the sense of the present, that would not have restored to me the memory of the past or the apprehension of the future. My imagination was incapable of reaching to the distant tune in which I might have the idea of going to bed, and the need to sleep.
她会让我们走进餐厅，餐厅的内部就像伦勃朗画的亚洲神庙的内部一样阴暗，里面有一个建筑蛋糕，既气派又优雅，友善，无论如何，似乎都在那里加冕。在这种情况下，幻想抓住了吉尔贝特，将其巧克力城垛拆除，并砍倒了城墙的陡峭棕色斜坡，这些城墙像大流士宫殿的堡垒一样在烤箱中烘烤。更好的是，在拆掉那个巴比伦式糕点时，希尔贝特不仅仅考虑到了她自己的饥饿；她还考虑到了自己的饥饿感。她还询问了我的情况，同时为我从摇摇欲坠的纪念碑中取出了一整块镶有东方风格的猩红色水果的琉璃板。她甚至问我父母几点吃饭，好像我仍然知道，好像支配我的骚动让饱腹感或饥饿感、晚餐的想法或我家人的照片持续存在。我空虚的记忆和瘫痪的胃。可惜的是，它的瘫痪只是暂时的。不知不觉中拿走的蛋糕，到了该消化的时候了。但那个时间还很遥远。与此同时，吉尔贝特正在泡“我的”茶。我继续无限期地喝它，而一杯就能让我二十四小时保持清醒。这就解释了为什么我母亲总是说：“这真是太麻烦了；” “他不可能在不带病回家的情况下去群队。”但是，当我在斯旺队时，我是否意识到我喝的是茶？如果我知道的话，我也会采取同样的态度，因为即使我暂时恢复了对现在的感觉，也不会恢复我对过去的记忆或对未来的恐惧。 我的想象力无法达到遥远的曲调，在曲调中我可能有上床睡觉的想法，以及睡觉的需要。

Gilberte’s girl friends were not all plunged in that state of intoxication in which it is impossible to make up one’s mind. Some of them refused tea! Then Gilberte would say, using a phrase highly fashionable that year: ‘I can see I’m not having much of a success with my tea!’ And to destroy more completely any idea of ceremony, she would disarrange the chairs that were drawn up round the table, with: ‘We look just like a wedding breakfast. Good lord, what fools servants are!’
希尔贝特的女朋友们并不都陷入那种无法下定决心的陶醉状态。他们中的一些人拒绝喝茶！然后吉尔贝特会说，用了当年非常流行的一句话：“我可以看到我的茶并没有取得多大成功！”为了更彻底地摧毁任何仪式感，她会打乱摆放好的椅子围坐在桌子旁，说道：“我们看起来就像婚礼早餐。”天哪，仆人们真是愚蠢啊！

She nibbled her cake, perched sideways upon a cross-legged seat placed at an angle to the table. And then, just as though she could have had all those cakes at her disposal without having first asked leave of her mother, when Mme. Swann, whose ‘day’ coincided as a rule with Gilberte’s tea-parties, had shewn one of her visitors to the door, and came sweeping in, a moment later, dressed sometimes in blue velvet, more often in a black satin gown draped with white lace, she would say with an air of astonishment: ‘I say, that looks good, what you’ve got there. It makes me quite hungry to see you all eating cake.’
她一边啃着蛋糕，一边坐在与桌子成一定角度的盘腿座位上。然后，就好像她可以不用先征求母亲的同意就可以享用所有这些蛋糕一样，当夫人。斯万的“日子”通常与希尔贝特的茶会重合，她把一位客人带到了门口，片刻之后，斯万就大步走进来，有时穿着蓝色天鹅绒，更多时候穿着一件黑色缎子长袍，上面披着白色蕾丝，她会带着惊讶的神情说：“我说，那看起来不错，你那里有什么。”看到你们都在吃蛋糕，我真饿了。”

‘But, Mamma, do! We invite you!’ Gilberte would answer.
‘但是，妈妈，做吧！我们邀请你！”吉尔伯特回答道。

*****

‘Thank you, no, my precious; what would my visitors say? I’ve still got Mme. Trombert and Mme. Cottard and Mme. Bontemps; you know dear Mme. Bontemps never pays very short visits, and she has only just come. What would all those good people say if I never went back to them? If no one else calls, I’ll come in again and have a chat with you (which will be far more amusing) after they’ve all gone. I really think I’ve earned a little rest; I have had forty-five different people to-day, and forty-two of them told me about Gérôme’s picture! But you must come alone one of these days,’ she turned to me, ‘and take ‘your’ tea with Gilberte. She will make it for you just as you like it, as you have it in your own little ‘studio,’’ she went on, flying off to her visitors, as if it had been something as familiar to me as my own habits (such as the habit that I should have had of taking tea, had I ever taken it; as for my ‘studio,’ I was uncertain whether I had one or not) that I had come to seek in this mysterious world. ‘When can you come? To-morrow? We will make you ‘toast’ every bit as good as you get at Colombin’s. No? You are horrid!’—for, since she also had begun to form a salon, she had borrowed Mme. Verdurin’s mannerisms, and notably her tone of petulant autocracy. ‘Toast’ being as incomprehensible to me as ‘Colombin’s,’ this further promise could not add to my temptation. It will appear stranger still, now that everyone uses such expressions—and perhaps even at Combray they are creeping in—that I had not at first understood of whom Mme. Swann was speaking when I heard her sing the praises of our old ‘nurse.’ I did not know any English; I gathered, however, as she went on that the word was intended to denote Françoise. I who, in the Champs-Elysées, had been so terrified of the bad impression that she must make, I now learned from Mme. Swann that it was all the things that Gilberte had told them about my ‘nurse’ that had attracted her husband and her to me. ‘One feels that she is so devoted to you; she must be nice!’ (At once my opinion of Françoise was diametrically changed. By the same token, to have a governess equipped with a waterproof and a feather in her hat no longer appeared quite so essential.) Finally I learned from some words which Mme. Swann let fall with regard to Mme. Blatin (whose good nature she recognised but dreaded her visits) that personal relations with that lady would have been of less value to me than I had supposed, and would not in any way have improved my standing with the Swanns.
“谢谢你，不，我的宝贝；我的访客会怎么说？我还有Mme。特朗贝尔和夫人。科塔尔和夫人。邦当斯；你知道亲爱的女士。邦当普斯从来不会进行短暂的拜访，而且她才刚刚来。如果我不再回到那些好人身边，他们会怎么说？如果没有人打电话，等他们都走了之后我会再进来和你聊天（这会更有趣）。我真的认为我已经得到了一点休息；今天我认识了四十五个人，其中四十二人告诉我杰罗姆的照片！但有一天你必须一个人来，”她转向我，“和希尔贝特一起喝‘你的’茶。她会按照你喜欢的方式为你做，就像你在自己的小‘工作室’里做的那样，”她继续说道，飞向她的访客，仿佛这对我来说就像我自己的习惯一样熟悉（比如我应该有的喝茶的习惯，如果我喝过的话；至于我的“工作室”，我不确定我是否有一个），我是来这个神秘的世界寻找的。 '你什么时候可以来？明天？我们将让您尽享 Colombin's 的美味“干杯”。不？你太可怕了！”——因为她也开始创办沙龙，所以她借用了夫人。维尔迪兰的举止，尤其是她任性专制的语气。 “吐司”对我来说就像“科隆宾的”一样难以理解，这个进一步的承诺并不能增加我的诱惑。更奇怪的是，现在每个人都使用这样的表达方式——也许甚至在贡布雷，这些表达方式也在悄然流行——我一开始并不理解夫人是谁。斯旺正在讲话，我听到她歌颂我们的老“护士”。我不懂英语；我不懂英语。然而，当她继续说下去时，我猜想这个词是指弗朗索瓦丝。 我在香榭丽舍大街上曾非常害怕她会给人留下不好的印象，现在我从夫人那里得知了这一点。斯旺说，正是吉尔贝特告诉他们有关我的“护士”的所有事情吸引了她的丈夫和她来找我。 ‘让人感觉她对你那么忠诚；她一定很好！”（我对弗朗索瓦丝的看法立刻发生了彻底的改变。出于同样的原因，拥有一个防水的家庭女教师和帽子里的羽毛不再显得那么重要。）最后我从一些话中学到了教训哪位女士。斯万对夫人感到失望。布拉廷（她承认她的善良本性，但害怕她的来访）认为，与那位女士的个人关系对我来说没有我想象的那么有价值，并且不会以任何方式改善我在斯旺一家的地位。

If I had now begun to explore, with tremors of reverence and joy the faery domain which, against all probability, had opened to me its hitherto locked approaches, this was still only in my capacity as a friend of Gilberte. The kingdom into which I was received was itself contained within another, more mysterious still, in which Swann and his wife led their supernatural existence and towards which they made their way, after taking my hand in theirs, when they crossed the hall at the same moment as myself but in the other direction. But soon I was to penetrate also to the heart of the Sanctuary. For instance, Gilberte might be out when I called, but M. or Mme. Swann was at home. They would ask who had rung, and on being told that it was myself would send out to ask me to come in for a moment and talk to them, desiring me to use in one way or another, and with this or that object in view, my influence over their daughter. I reminded myself of that letter, so complete, so convincing, which I had written to Swann only the other day, and which he had not deigned even to acknowledge. I marvelled at the impotence of the mind, the reason and the heart to effect the least conversion, to solve a single one of those difficulties which, in the sequel, life, without one’s so much as knowing what steps it has taken, so easily unravels. My new position as the friend of Gilberte, endowed with an excellent influence over her, entitling me now to enjoy the same favours as if, having had as a companion at some school where they had always put me at the head of my class the son of a king, I had owed to that accident the right of informal entry into the palace and to audiences in the throne-room, Swann, with an infinite benevolence and as though he were not over-burdened with glorious occupations, would make me go into his library and there let me for an hour on end respond in stammered monosyllables, timid silences broken by brief and incoherent bursts of courage, to utterances of which my emotion prevented me from understanding a single word; would shew me works of art and books which he thought likely to interest me, things as to which I had no doubt, before seeing them, that they infinitely surpassed in beauty anything that the Louvre possessed or the National Library, but at which I found it impossible to look. At such moments I should have been grateful to Swann’s butler, had he demanded from me my watch, my tie-pin, my boots, and made me sign a deed acknowledging him as my heir: in the admirable words of a popular expression of which, as of the most famous epics, we do not know who was the author, although, like those epics, and with all deference to Wolff and his theory, it most certainly had an author, one of those inventive, modest souls such as we come across every year, who light upon such gems as ‘putting a name to a face,’ though their own names they never let us learn, I did not know what I was doing. All the greater was my astonishment, when my visit was prolonged, at finding to what a zero of realisation, to what an absence of happy ending those hours spent in the enchanted dwelling led me. But my disappointment arose neither from the inadequacy of the works of art that were shewn to me nor from the impossibility of fixing upon them my distracted gaze. For it was not the intrinsic beauty of the objects themselves that made it miraculous for me to be sitting in Swann’s library, it was the attachment to those objects—which might have been the ugliest in the world—of the particular feeling, melancholy and voluptuous, which I had for so many years localised in that room and which still impregnated it; similarly the multitude of mirrors, of silver-backed brushes, of altars to Saint Anthony of Padua, carved and painted by the most eminent artists, her friends, counted for nothing in the feeling of my own unworthiness and of her regal benevolence which was aroused in me when Mme. Swann received me for a moment in her own room, in which three beautiful and impressive creatures, her principal and second and third maids, smilingly prepared for her the most marvellous toilets, and towards which, on the order conveyed to me by the footman in knee-breeches that Madame wished to say a few words to me, I would make my way along the tortuous path of a corridor all embalmed, far and near, by the precious essences which exhaled without ceasing from her dressing-room a fragrance exquisitely sweet.
如果我现在怀着崇敬和喜悦的颤抖开始探索仙境，尽管它极有可能向我打开了迄今为止封锁的道路，但这仍然只是我作为希尔贝特的朋友的能力。我被接待的那个王国本身就包含在另一个更加神秘的王国里，斯万和他的妻子在这个王国中领导着他们超自然的存在，当他们同时穿过大厅时，他们握住我的手，向那个王国走去。就像我自己一样，但方向相反。但很快我也将深入圣殿的中心。例如，当我打电话时，吉尔贝特可能不在，但先生或女士。斯旺在家。他们会问是谁按响的，当被告知是我自己时，我会派人请我进来与他们交谈一会儿，希望我以某种方式使用，并且考虑到这个或那个对象，我对他们女儿的影响。我想起那封信，如此完整，如此令人信服，前几天我才写给斯旺，而他甚至没有屈尊承认这封信。我惊叹于思想、理性和心灵的无能，无法实现最少的转变，解决那些困难中的一个，在续集中，生活，没有人知道它已经采取了什么步骤，那么容易解开。 我作为希尔贝特的朋友的新职位，赋予了她极好的影响力，使我现在有权享受同样的好处，就好像在某所学校里，他们总是把我放在班级的前列，儿子是我的同伴。作为一个国王，由于那次事故，我欠了非正式进入宫殿和王座室观众的权利，斯万怀着无限的仁慈，好像他没有因光荣的职业而负担过重，会让我离开走进他的图书馆，让我连续一个小时用结结巴巴的单音节词来回应，胆怯的沉默被短暂而语无伦次的勇气爆发所打破，我的情感使我无法理解其中的一个词。他会向我展示他认为可能令我感兴趣的艺术品和书籍，在看到它们之前我毫不怀疑它们的美丽程度无限超过卢浮宫或国家图书馆的任何东西，但我发现它们不可能看。在这种时刻，我应该感谢斯旺的管家，如果他向我索要我的手表、我的领带别针、我的靴子，并让我签署一份契约，承认他是我的继承人：用一种令人钦佩的流行表达方式来说，作为最著名的史诗，我们不知道作者是谁，尽管像那些史诗一样，并且尊重沃尔夫和他的理论，它肯定有一位作者，一个像我们这样富有创造力、谦虚的灵魂的人。每年都会遇到这样的人，他们点亮了“给一张脸命名”这样的宝石，尽管他们从不让我们知道他们自己的名字，但我不知道我在做什么。当我的访问时间延长时，我更加惊讶地发现，在这座迷人的住宅中度过的那些时间给我带来了多么大的认识为零，以及多么缺乏幸福的结局。 但我的失望既不是因为向我展示的艺术品的不足，也不是因为我无法将注意力集中在它们身上。因为并不是这些物体本身的内在美让我坐在斯旺的图书馆里感到奇迹，而是对这些物体的依恋——它们可能是世界上最丑陋的——一种特殊的感觉，忧郁而性感。 ，多年来我一直把它放在那个房间里，而且仍然充满着它；同样，众多的镜子、银背画笔、帕多瓦圣安东尼的祭坛，都是由最杰出的艺术家、她的朋友们雕刻和绘画的，在我自己的无价值感和她所激起的帝王仁慈的感觉中毫无意义。当女士在我身上时。斯万在她自己的房间里接待了我一会儿，三个美丽而令人印象深刻的生物，她的首席女仆和第二女仆和第三女仆，微笑着为她准备了最奇妙的厕所，按照男仆传达给我的命令，她准备了厕所。夫人想对我说几句话的及膝马裤，我会沿着一条曲折的走廊走，无论远近，都被她的更衣室不间断地散发出的珍贵香精所熏香，一种精致甜美的香气。

When Mme. Swann had returned to her visitors, we could still hear her talking and laughing, for even with only two people in the room, and as though she had to cope with all the ‘good friends’ at once, she would raise her voice, ejaculate her words, as she had so often in the ‘little clan’ heard its ‘Mistress’ do, at the moments when she ‘led the conversation.’ The expressions which we have borrowed from other people being those which, for a time at least, we are fondest of using, Mme. Swann used to select at one time those which she had learned from distinguished psople whom her husband had not managed to prevent her from getting to know (it was from them that she derived the mannerism which consists in suppressing the article or demonstrative pronoun, in French, before an adjective qualifying a person’s name), at another time others more plebeian (such as ‘It’s a mere nothing!’ the favourite expression of one of her friends), and used to make room for them in all the stories which, by a habit formed among the ‘little clan,’ she loved to tell about people. She would follow these up automatically with, ‘I do love that story!’ or ‘Do admit, it’s a very good story!’ which came to her, through her husband, from the Guermantes, whom she did not know.
当女士。斯旺回到了她的访客身边，我们仍然可以听到她的说话和笑声，因为即使房间里只有两个人，仿佛她必须同时应对所有的“好朋友”，她也会提高声音，射精她的话，正如她经常在“小家族”中听到“女主人”在她“主导谈话”时所做的那样。我们从其他人那里借用的表达方式至少在一段时间内是这样的，我们最喜欢使用，Mme。斯万曾经一度选择那些她从杰出人士那里学到的东西，而她的丈夫并没有设法阻止她去认识这些人（正是从这些人那里，她衍生出了一种习惯主义，即在法语中压制冠词或指示代词） ，在限定人名的形容词之前），有时其他人则更平民化（例如“这只是一无所有！”这是她的一个朋友最喜欢的表达方式），并在所有故事中为他们腾出空间，通过她喜欢讲述人的事，这是“小家族”中形成的习惯。她会自动跟进，“我确实喜欢这个故事！”或“承认，这是一个非常好的故事！”这是她通过她的丈夫从盖尔芒特家族得知的，而她并不认识盖尔芒特家族。

Mme. Swann had left the dining-room, but her husband, who had just returned home, made his appearance among us in turn.’ ‘Do you know if your mother is alone, Gilberte?’ ‘No, Papa, she has still some people.’ ‘What, still? At seven o’clock! It’s appalling! The poor woman must be absolutely dead. It’s odious.’ (At home I had always heard the first syllable of this word pronounced with a long ‘o,’ like ‘ode,’ but M. and Mme. Swann made it short, as in ‘odd.’) ‘Just think of it; ever since two o’clock this afternoon!’ he went on, turning to me. ‘And Camille tells me that between four and five he let in at least a dozen people. Did I say a dozen? I believe he told me fourteen. No, a dozen; I don’t remember. When I came home I had quite forgotten it was her ‘day,’ and when I saw all those carriages outside the door I thought there must be a wedding in the house. And just now, while I’ve been in the library for a minute, the bell has never stopped ringing; upon my word, it’s given me quite a headache. And are there a lot of them in there still?’ ‘No; only two.’ ‘Who are they, do you know?’ ‘Mme. Cottard and Mme. Bontemps.’ ‘Oh! the wife of the Chief Secretary to the Minister of Posts.’ ‘I know her husband’s a clerk in some Ministry or other, but I don’t know what he does.’ Gilberte assumed a babyish manner.
女士。斯万已经离开了餐厅，但她的丈夫刚刚回家，又出现在我们中间。” “你知道你妈妈是不是一个人吗，希尔贝特？” “不，爸爸，她还有一些人。 ” “什么，还是？七点钟了！太可怕了！那个可怜的女人肯定已经死了。这太可恶了。”（在家里，我总是听到这个词的第一个音节发音为长“o”，就像“ode”一样，但是斯旺先生和夫人把它写得很短，就像“odd”一样。）“只是想一想；从今天下午两点开始！”他转向我继续说道。 “卡米尔告诉我，在四到五个人之间，他至少让十几个人进来。我有说十几个吗？我相信他告诉了我十四个。不，一打；我不记得了。当我回到家时，我完全忘记了今天是她的“日子”，当我看到门外那么多马车时，我想家里一定正在举行婚礼。刚才，我在图书馆呆了一分钟，铃声却一直响个不停；说实话，这让我很头疼。那里还有很多人吗？只有两个。” “他们是谁，你知道吗？”科塔尔和夫人。邦当。”“哦！ “我知道她丈夫是某个部委的职员，但我不知道他是做什么的。”希尔贝特表现出一种幼稚的态度。

‘What’s that? You silly child, you talk as if you were two years old. What do you mean; ‘a clerk in some Ministry or other’ indeed! He is nothing less than Chief Secretary, chief of the whole show, and what’s more—what on earth am I thinking of? Upon my word, I’m getting as stupid as yourself; he is not the Chief Secretary, he’s the Permanent Secretary.’
'那是什么？你这个傻孩子，说话就像两岁小孩一样。你是什​​么意思;确实是“某个部委的职员”！他不愧是首席秘书，全场的首席，更何况我到底在想什么？老实说，我变得和你一样愚蠢了；他不是布政司，他是常任秘书长。”

‘I don’t know, I’m sure; does that mean a lot, being Permanent Secretary?’ answered Gilberte, who never let slip an opportunity of displaying her own indifference to anything that gave her parents cause for vanity. (She may, of course, have considered that she only enhanced the brilliance of such an acquaintance by not seeming to attach any undue importance to it.)
“我不知道，但我确定；吉尔贝特回答道，她从不放过任何一个机会，对任何让她父母产生虚荣心的事情表现出自己的冷漠。 （当然，她可能认为，她似乎没有对这样的熟人给予任何过分的重视，从而增强了他的才华。）

‘I should think it did ‘mean a lot’!’ exclaimed Swann, who preferred to this modesty, which might have left me in doubt, a more explicit mode of speech. ‘Why it means simply that he’s the first man after the Minister. In fact, he’s more important than the Minister, because it is he that does all the work. Besides, it appears that he has immense capacity, a man quite of the first rank, a most distinguished individual. He’s an Officer of the Legion of Honour. A delightful man, he is, and very good-looking too.’
“我认为这确实‘意义重大’！”斯万惊呼道，他更喜欢这种谦虚的方式，这可能会让我产生疑问，这是一种更明确的讲话方式。 “为什么这仅仅意味着他是部长之后的第一人。”事实上，他比部长更重要，因为所有的工作都是他做的。而且，看起来他的能力非常大，是一个相当一流的人，一个非常杰出的人。他是荣誉军团勋章的军官。他是一个令人愉快的人，而且也非常英俊。

(This man’s wife, incidentally, had married him against everyone’s wishes and advica because he was a ‘charming creature.’ He had, what may be sufficient to constitute a rare and delicate whole, a fair, silky beard, good features, a nasal voice, powerful lungs and a glass eye.)
（顺便说一句，这个男人的妻子违背了所有人的意愿和劝告嫁给了他，因为他是一个“迷人的生物”。他有，可能足以构成一个罕见而精致的整体，一个公平的，丝质的胡须，良好的五官，鼻音声音、强大的肺和玻璃眼睛。）

‘I may tell you,’ he added, turning again to me, ‘that I am greatly amused to see that lot serving in the present Government, because they are Bontemps of the Bontemps-Chenut family, typical old-fashioned middle-class people, reactionary, clerical, tremendously strait-laced. Your grandfather knew quite well—at least by name and by sight he must have known old Chenut, the father, who never tipped the cabmen more than a ha’penny, though he was a rich enough man for those days, and the Baron Bréau-Chenut. All their money went in the Union Générale smash—you’re too young to remember that, of course—and, gad! they’ve had to get it back as best they could.’
“我可以告诉你，”他又转向我补充道，“看到这群人在现任政府任职，我感到非常有趣，因为他们是邦当-切努家族的邦当，是典型的老式中产阶级。 ，反动的，教士式的，极其拘谨的。你的祖父很清楚——至少从名字和外表上看，他一定认识老切努特，他的父亲，他从来没有给出租车司机超过半便士的小费，尽管他当时已经是一个足够富有的人了，还有布罗男爵。 -切纳特。他们所有的钱都花在了联合总公司的粉碎上——当然，你太年轻了，不记得这一点——而且，太棒了！他们必须尽最大努力把它拿回来。

‘He’s the uncle of a little girl who used to come to my lessons, in a class a long way below mine, the famous ‘Albertine.’ She’s certain to be dreadfully ‘fast’ when she’s older, but just now she’s the quaintest spectacle.’
“他是一个小女孩的叔叔，那个小女孩曾经来听我的课，班上的成绩远远低于我，她就是著名的‘阿尔贝蒂娜’。当她长大后，她肯定会‘快’得可怕，但现在她是最古怪的奇观。” .'

‘She is amazing, this daughter of mine. She knows everyone.’
“她太棒了，我的女儿。她认识每个人。

‘I don’t know her. I only used to see her going about, and hear them calling ‘Albertine’ here, and ‘Albertine’ there. But I do know Mme. Bontemps, and I don’t like her much either.’
‘我不认识她。我以前只看到她走来走去，听到他们在这里喊“阿尔贝蒂娜”，在那里喊“阿尔贝蒂娜”。但我确实认识Mme。邦当普斯，我也不太喜欢她。

‘You are quite wrong; she is charming, pretty, intelligent. In fact, she’s quite clever. I shall go in and say how d’e do to her, and ask her if her husband thinks we’re going to have war, and whether we can rely on King Theodosius. He’s bound to know, don’t you think, since he’s in the counsels of the gods.’
‘你大错特错了；她迷人、漂亮、聪明。事实上，她很聪明。我会进去告诉她怎么样，并问她她的丈夫是否认为我们会发生战争，以及我们是否可以依靠狄奥多西国王。他一定会知道，你不觉得吗，因为他是在接受诸神的指导。”

It was not thus that Swann used to talk in days gone by; but which of us cannot call to mind some royal princess of limited intelligence who let herself be carried off by a footman, and then, ten years later, tried to get back into society, and found that people were not very willing to call upon her; have we not found her spontaneously adopting the language of all the old bores, and, when we referred to some duchess who was at the height of fashion, heard her say: ‘She came to see me only yesterday,’ or ‘I live a very quiet life.’ So that it is superfluous to make a study of manners, since we can deduce them all from psychological laws.
过去斯万并不是这样说话的。但谁不曾想起某位智力有限的皇室公主，她被一个男仆带走了，十年后，试图重返社会，却发现人们不太愿意拜访她;难道我们没有发现她自然而然地采用了所有令人厌烦的语言吗？当我们提到某个时尚巅峰的公爵夫人时，听到她说：“她昨天才来看我”，或者“我过着幸福的生活”。非常安静的生活。”因此，研究礼仪是多余的，因为我们可以从心理法则中推断出它们。

The Swanns shared this eccentricity of people who have not many friends; a visit, an invitation, a mere friendly word from some one ever so little prominent were for them events to which they aspired to give full publicity. If bad luck would have it that the Verdurins were in London when Odette gave a rather smart dinner-party, arrangements were made by which some common friend was to ‘cable’ a report to them across the Channel. Even the complimentary letters and telegrams received by Odette the Swanns were incapable of keeping to themselves. They spoke of them to their friends, passed them from hand to hand. Thus the Swanns’ drawing-room reminded one of a seaside hotel where telegrams containing the latest news are posted up on a board.
斯旺一家也有朋友不多的怪癖。对他们来说，一次访问、一次邀请、哪怕是某个不起眼的人的一句友好的话，都是他们渴望充分宣传的事件。如果运气不好的话，当奥黛特举行一场相当漂亮的晚宴时，维尔迪兰一家人正在伦敦，于是安排了一些共同的朋友跨过英吉利海峡向他们“电报”一份报告。就连斯旺一家奥黛特收到的赞美信和电报也无法保密。他们向朋友们谈论这些东西，并把它们传给别人。因此，斯旺一家的客厅让人想起一家海滨酒店，那里的板上贴着包含最新消息的电报。

Still, people who had known the old Swann not merely outside society, as I had known him, but in society, in that Guermantes set which, with certain concessions to Highnesses and Duchesses, was almost infinitely exacting in the matter of wit and charm, from which banishment was sternly decreed for men of real eminence whom its members found boring or vulgar,—such people might have been astonished to observe that their old Swann had ceased to be not only discreet when he spoke of his acquaintance, but difficult when he was called upon to enlarge it. How was it that Mme. Bontemps, so common, so ill-natured, failed to exasperate him? How could he possibly describe her as attractive? The memory of the Guermantes set must, one would suppose, have prevented him; as a matter of fact it encouraged him. There was certainly among the Guermantes, as compared with the great majority of groups in society, taste, indeed a refined taste, but also a snobbishness from which there arose the possibility of a momentary interruption in the exercise of that taste. If it were a question of some one who was not indispensable to their circle, of a Minister for Foreign Affairs, a Republican and inclined to be pompous, or of an Academician who talked too much, their taste would be brought to bear heavily against him, Swann would condole with Mme. de Guermantes on having had to sit next to such people at dinner at one of the Embassies, and they would a thousand times rather have a man of fashion, that is to say a man of the Guermantes kind, good for nothing, but endowed with the wit of the Guermantes, some one who was ‘of the same chapel’ as themselves. Only, a Grand Duchess, a Princess of the Blood, should she dine often with Mme. de Guermantes, would soon find herself enrolled in that chapel also, without having any right to be there, without being at all so endowed. But with the simplicity of people in society, from the moment they had her in their houses they went out of their way to find her attractive, since they were unable to say that it was because she was attractive that they invited her. Swann, coming to the rescue of Mme. de Guermantes, would say to her after the Highness had gone: ‘After all, she’s not such a bad woman; really, she has quite a sense of the comic. I don’t suppose for a moment that she has mastered the Critique of Pure Reason; still, she is not unattractive.’ ‘Oh, I do so entirely agree with you!’ the Duchess would respond. ‘Besides, she was a little frightened of us all; you will see that she can be charming.’ ‘She is certainly a great deal less devastating than Mme. X——‘ (the wife of the talkative Academician, and herself a remarkable woman) ‘who quotes twenty volumes at you.’ ‘Oh, but there isn’t any comparison between them.’ The faculty of saying such things as these, and of saying them sincerely, Swann had acquired from the Duchess, and had never lost. He made use of it now with reference to the people who came to his house. He forced himself to distinguish, and to admire in them the qualities that every human being will display if we examine him with a prejudice in his favour, and not with the distaste of the nice-minded; he extolled the merits of Mme. Bon-temps, as he had once extolled those of the Princesse de Parme, who must have been excluded from the Guermantes set if there had not been privileged terms of admission for certain Highnesses, and if, when they presented themselves for election, no consideration had indeed been paid except to wit and charm. We have seen already, moreover, that Swann had always an inclination (which he was now putting into practice, only in a more lasting fashion) to exchange his social position for another which, in certain circumstances, might suit him better. It is only people incapable of analysing, in their perception, what at first sight appears indivisible who believe that one’s position is consolidated with one’s person. One and the same man, taken at successive points in his life, will be found to breathe, at different stages on the social ladder, in atmospheres that do not of necessity become more and more refined; whenever, in any period of our existence, we form or re-form associations with a certain environment, and feel that we can move at ease in it and are made comfortable, we begin quite naturally to make ourselves fast to it by putting out roots and tendrils.
尽管如此，那些认识老斯旺的人们，不仅像我认识他那样，在社会之外，而且在盖尔芒特的社会中，在对殿下和公爵夫人做出某些让步的情况下，在智慧和魅力方面几乎无限严格，对于那些其成员认为无聊或粗俗的真正杰出的人，这些人可能会感到惊讶，因为他们的老斯万不仅在谈到他的熟人时不再谨慎，而且在谈论他的熟人时也变得困难，他们可能会感到惊讶。并被要求扩大它。那位女士怎么样？邦当普斯如此平凡，如此恶毒，竟然没能激怒他​​？他怎么能形容她有魅力呢？人们可能会认为，盖尔芒特家族的记忆一定阻止了他；事实上，这鼓励了他。与社会上绝大多数群体相比，盖尔芒特家族确实有品味，确实是一种高雅的品味，但也有一种势利，因此有可能暂时中断这种品味的运用。如果是一个圈子里不重要的人，一个外交部长，一个共和党人，一个喜欢浮夸的人，或者一个话太多的院士，他们的品味就会受到严重影响。 ，斯旺将向夫人表示哀悼。德·盖尔芒特曾在大使馆的晚宴上不得不坐在这样的人旁边，他们千百倍地宁愿有一个时尚人士，也就是说盖尔芒特那样的人，一无是处，但具有天赋盖尔芒特家族的智慧，他们与自己“来自同一个教堂”。只是，一位大公夫人，一位血统公主，她应该经常与夫人一起用餐。 德·盖尔芒特很快就会发现自己也加入了那个教堂，但她没有任何权利在那里，也根本没有这样的天赋。但社会上的人们都很单纯，从她进家的那一刻起，他们就竭尽全力地发现她有吸引力，因为他们不能说是因为她有吸引力才邀请她的。斯旺来救夫人了。殿下走后，德·盖尔芒特夫人会对她说：“毕竟，她并不是一个坏女人；确实，她很有喜剧感。我暂时不认为她已经掌握了《纯粹理性批判》。 “哦，我完全同意你的观点！”公爵夫人会回答道。 “此外，她对我们大家都有点害怕。 “你会发现她很迷人。” X——”（多嘴的院士的妻子，她本人也是一位杰出的女性）“向你引用了二十卷书。”“哦，但它们之间没有任何可比性。”说这些话的能力，斯旺从公爵夫人那里得到了真诚的说法，而且从未失去过。他现在用这个词来指代到他家来的人。他强迫自己去区分和钦佩他们身上的品质，如果我们以有利于他的偏见而不是好心人的厌恶来审视他，那么每个人都会表现出这些品质。他赞扬了夫人的优点。 Bon-temps，正如他曾经赞扬帕尔马公主的那些人一样，如果没有某些殿下的特殊准入条件，并且当他们参加选举时，没有考虑到他们，那么她一定会被排除在盖尔芒特家族之外。除了智慧和魅力之外，确实得到了报酬。 此外，我们已经看到，斯万总是倾向于（他现在正在付诸实践，只是以一种更持久的方式）将自己的社会地位换成另一个在某些情况下可能更适合他的社会地位。只有那些无法在他们的感知中分析乍一看不可分割的东西的人，才会相信一个人的位置与一个人是一体的。同一个人，在他一生的连续阶段中，我们会发现，在社会阶梯的不同阶段，他所呼吸的气氛并不一定会变得越来越精致；他的生活氛围并不一定会变得越来越优雅。无论何时，在我们存在的任何时期，我们与某个环境形成或重新形成联系，并感到我们可以在其中轻松自在地移动并感到舒适，我们就会很自然地开始通过扎根来使自己牢牢地适应它和卷须。

In so far as Mme. Bontemps was concerned, I believe also that Swann, in speaking of her with so much emphasis, was not sorry to think that my parents would hear that she had been to see his wife. To tell the truth, in our house the names of the people whom Mme. Swann was gradually getting to know pricked our curiosity more than they aroused our admiration. At the name of Mme. Trombert, my mother exclaimed: ‘Ah! That’s a new recruit, and one who will bring in others.’ And as though she found a similarity between the somewhat summary, rapid and violent manner in which Mme. Swann acquired her friends, as it were by conquest, and a Colonial expedition, Mamma went on to observe: ‘Now that the Tromberts have surrendered, the neighbouring tribes will not be long in coming in.’ If she had passed Mme. Swann in the street, she would tell us when she came home: ‘I saw Mme. Swann in all her war-paint; she must have been embarking on some triumphant offensive against the Massachutoes, or the Cingalese, or the Tromberts.’ And so with all the new people whom I told her that I had seen in that somewhat composite and artificial society, to which they had often been brought with great difficulty and from widely different surroundings, Mamma would at once divine their origin, and, speaking of them as of trophies dearly bought, would say: ‘Brought back from an Expedition against the so-and-so!’
就女士而言。邦当普斯很担心，我也相信斯万在如此强调地谈论她时，想到我的父母会听说她去看望他的妻子，并不感到遗憾。说实话，在我们家里，有女士的名字。斯旺逐渐了解更多的是激起我们的好奇心，而不是引起我们的钦佩。以夫人的名义。特罗伯特，我母亲惊呼道：‘啊！这是一位新招募的人，而且还会引进其他人。斯旺通过征服和殖民远征获得了她的朋友，妈妈接着说：“现在特罗伯特人已经投降了，邻近的部落很快就会进来。”斯旺在街上，回家后她会告诉我们：“我看到了斯旺女士。”斯旺全身涂满战争色彩；她一定是在对马萨丘托人、辛加勒人或特罗伯特人发动某种胜利的攻势。”我告诉她，我在那个有点复杂和人造的社会里见过的所有新人也是如此，他们经常接触到这个社会。如果这些东西是从非常不同的环境中历经千辛万苦才带来的，妈妈会立刻猜出它们的来源，并且在谈到它们时，会说：“是从对某某人的远征中带回来的！”

As for Mme. Cottard, my father was astonished that Mme. Swann could find anything to be gained by getting so utterly undistinguished a woman to come to her house, and said: ‘In spite of the Professor’s position, I must say that I cannot understand it.’ Mamma, on the other hand, understood quite well; she knew that a great deal of the pleasure which a woman finds in entering a class of society different from that in which she has previously lived would be lacking if she had no means of keeping her old associates informed of those others, relatively more brilliant, with whom she has replaced them. Therefore, she requires an eye-witness who may be allowed to penetrate this new, delicious world (as a buzzing, browsing insect bores its way into a flower) and will then, as the course of her visits may carry her, spread abroad, or so at least one hopes, with the tidings, a latent germ of envy and of wonder. Mme. Cottard, who might have been created on purpose to fill this part, belonged to that special category in a visiting list which Mamma (who inherited certain facets of her father’s turn of mind) used to call the ‘Tell Sparta’ people. Besides—apart from another reason which did not come to our knowledge until many years later—Mme. Swann, in inviting this good-natured, reserved and modest friend, had no need to fear lest she might be introducing into her drawing-room, on her brilliant ‘days,’ a traitor or a rival. She knew what a vast number of homely blossoms that busy worker, armed with her plume and card-case, could visit in a single afternoon. She knew the creature’s power of dissemination, and, basing her calculations upon the law of probability, was led to believe that almost certainly some intimate of the Verdurins would be bound to hear, within two or three days, how the Governor of Paris had left cards upon her, or that M. Verdurin himself would be told how M. Le Hault de Pressagny, the President of the Horse Show, had taken them, Swann and herself, to the King Theodosius gala; she imagined the Verdurins as informed of these two events, both so flattering to herself and of these alone, because the particular materialisations in which we embody and pursue fame are but few in number, by the default of our own minds which are incapable of imagining at one time all the forms which, none the less, we hope—in a general way—that fame will not fail simultaneously to assume for our benefit.
至于女士。科塔尔，我父亲对夫人感到惊讶。斯旺认为让一个毫无名气的女人到她家来有什么好处，她说：“尽管教授的职位很高，但我必须说我无法理解。”另一方面，妈妈却很理解。出色地;她知道，如果一个女人无法让她的老同事了解其他相对更聪明的人，那么她在进入一个与她以前生活的社会不同的社会阶层时就会缺乏很多乐趣。她用谁取代了他们。因此，她需要一个目击者，他可以被允许进入这个新的、美味的世界（就像一只嗡嗡作响的昆虫钻进一朵花），然后，随着她访问的过程可能将她带到国外，或者说，至少有人希望，随着这个消息，嫉妒和惊奇的潜在萌芽。女士。科塔尔可能是为了填补这一部分而故意创建的，他属于访问名单中的特殊类别，妈妈（她继承了她父亲的某些方面的思想倾向）曾经称之为“告诉斯巴达”人。此外——除了我们直到许多年后才知道的另一个原因——夫人。斯万邀请这位心地善良、矜持谦虚的朋友，无需担心她可能会在她辉煌的“日子”里把叛徒或对手引入她的客厅。她知道，忙碌的工人带着羽毛和名片盒，在一个下午的时间里可以看到大量朴素的花朵。 她知道这种生物的传播能力，并且根据概率定律进行计算，她相信，几乎可以肯定，维尔迪兰家族的一些密友一定会在两三天之内听到巴黎总督如何离开的消息。或者维尔迪兰先生本人会被告知马展主席勒豪特·德·普雷萨尼先生如何带他们、斯万和她本人去参加狄奥多西国王的晚会；她想象维尔迪兰夫妇知道了这两件事，这两件事都让她自己很高兴，因为我们体现和追求名声的特定物质化的数量很少，这是我们自己无法想象的默认情况。尽管如此，我们总体上还是希望名誉不会同时为我们的利益而采取所有形式。

Mme. Swann had, however, met with no success outside what was called the ‘official world.’ Smart women did not go to her house. It was not the presence there of Republican ‘notables’ that frightened them away. In the days of my early childhood, conservative society was to the last degree worldly, and no ‘good’ house would ever have opened its doors to a Republican. The people who lived in such an atmosphere imagined that the impossibility of ever inviting an ‘opportunist’—still more, a ‘horrid radical’—to their parties was something that would endure for ever, like oil-lamps and horse-drawn omnibuses. But, like a kaleidoscope which is every now and then given a turn, society arranges successively in different orders elements which one would have supposed to be immovable, and composes a fresh pattern. Before I had made my first Communion, ladies on the ‘right side’ in politics had had the stupefaction of meeting, while paying calls, a smart Jewess. These new arrangements of the kaleidoscope are produced by what a philosopher would call a ‘change of criterion.’ The Dreyfus case brought about another, at a period rather later than that in which I began to go to Mme. Swann’s, and the kaleidoscope scattered once again its little scraps of colour. Everything Jewish, even the smart lady herself, fell out of the pattern, and various obscure nationalities appeared in its place. The most brilliant drawing-room in Paris was that of a Prince who was an Austrian and ultra-Catholic. If instead of the Dreyfus case there had come a war with Germany, the base of the kaleidoscope would have been turned in the other direction, and its pattern reversed. The Jews having shewn, to the general astonishment, that they were patriots also, would have kept their position, and no one would have cared to go any more, or even to admit that he had ever gone to the Austrian Prince’s. All this does not, however, prevent the people who move in it from imagining, whenever society is stationary for the moment, that no further change will occur, just as in spite of having witnessed the birth of the telephone they decline to believe in the aeroplane. Meanwhile the philosophers of journalism are at work, castigating the preceding epoch, and not only the kind of pleasures in which it indulged, which seem to them to be the last word in corruption, but even the work of its artists and philosophers, which have no longer the least value in their eyes, as though they were indissolubly linked to the successive moods of fashionable frivolity. The one thing that does not change is that at any and every time it appears that there have been ‘great changes.’ At the time when I went to Mme. Swann’s the Dreyfus storm had not yet broken, and some of the more prominent Jews were extremely powerful. None more so than Sir Rufus Israels, whose wife, Lady Israels, was Swann’s aunt. She had not herself any intimate acquaintance so distinguished as her nephew’s, while he, since he did not care for her, had never much cultivated her society, although he was, so far as was known, her heir. But she was the only one of Swann’s relatives who had any idea of his social position, the others having always remained in the state of ignorance, in that respect, which had long been our own. When, from a family circle, one of its members emigrates into ‘high society’—which to him appears a feat without parallel until after the lapse of a decade he observes that it has been performed in other ways and for different reasons by more than one of the men whom he knew as boys—he draws round about himself a zone of shadow, a terra incognita, which is clearly visible in its minutest details to all those who inhabit it with him, but is darkest night and nothingness to those who may not penetrate it but touch its fringe without the least suspicion of its existence in their midst. There being no news agency to furnish Swann’s lady cousins with intelligence of the people with whom he consorted, it was (before his appalling marriage, of course) with a smile of condescension that they would tell one another, over family dinner-tables, that they had spent a ‘virtuous’ Sunday in going to see ‘cousin Charles,’ whom (regarding him as a ‘poor relation’ who was inclined to envy their prosperity,) they used wittily to name, playing upon the title of Balzac’s story, Le Cousin Bête. Lady Israels, however, was letter-perfect in the names and quality of the people who lavished upon Swann a friendship of which she was frankly jealous. Her husband’s family, which almost equalled the Rothschilds in importance, had for several generations managed the affairs of the Orleans Princes. Lady Israels, being immensely rich, exercised a wide influence, and had employed it so as to ensure that no one whom she knew should be ‘at home’ to Odette. One only had disobeyed her, in secret, the Comtesse de Marsantes. And then, as ill luck would have it, Odette having gone to call upon Mme. de Marsantes, Lady Israels had entered the room almost at her heels. Mme. de Marsantes was on tenter-hooks. With the craven impotence of those who are at liberty to act as they choose, she did not address a single word to Odette, who thus found little encouragement to press further the invasion of a world which, moreover, was not at all that into which she would have liked to be welcomed. In this complete detachment of the Faubourg Saint-Germain, Odette continued to be regarded as the illiterate ‘light woman,’ utterly different from the respectable ladies, ‘well up’ in all the minutest points of genealogy, who endeavoured to quench by reading biographies and memoirs their thirst for the aristocratic relations with which real life had omitted to provide them. And Swann, for his part, continued no doubt to be the lover in whose eyes all these peculiarities of an old mistress would appear lovable or at least inoffensive, for I have often heard his wife profess what were really social heresies, without his attempting (whether from lingering affection for her, loss of regard for society or weariness of the effort to make her perfect) to correct them. It was perhaps also another form of the simplicity which for so long had misled us at Combray, and which now had the effect that, while he continued to know, on his own account at least, many highly distinguished people, he did not make a point, in conversation in his wife’s drawing-room, of our seeming to feel that they were of the smallest importance. They had, indeed, less than ever for Swann, the centre of gravity of his life having been displaced. In any case, Odette’s ignorance of social distinctions was so dense that if the name of the Princesse de Guermantes were mentioned in conversation after that of the Duchess, her cousin, ‘So those ones are Princes, are they?’ she would exclaim; ‘Why, they’ve gone up a step.’ Were anyone to say ‘the Prince,’ in speaking of the Duc de Chartres, she would put him right with, ‘The Duke, you mean; he is Duc de Chartres, not Prince.’ As for the Duc d’Orléans, son of the Comte de Paris: ‘That’s funny; the son is higher than the father!’ she would remark, adding, for she was afflicted with anglomania, ‘Those Royalties are so dreadfully confusing!’—while to someone who asked her from what province the Guermantes family came she replied, ‘From the Aisne.’
女士。然而，斯旺在所谓的“官方世界”之外并没有取得任何成功。聪明的女人不会去她家。并不是共和党“名流”的存在吓跑了他们。在我的童年时代，保守的社会是最世俗的，没有一个“好”的房子会向共和党人敞开大门。生活在这种气氛中的人们认为，永远不可能邀请一个“机会主义者”——更何况是一个“可怕的激进分子”参加他们的聚会，就像油灯和公共马车一样。但是，社会就像一个时不时旋转的万花筒，将人们本以为是不可移动的元素按不同的顺序依次排列，并构成了一种新鲜的图案。在我第一次领圣餐之前，政治上“右派”的女士们在打电话时遇到了一位聪明的犹太女人，感到惊愕不已。万花筒的这些新安排是由哲学家所说的“标准的改变”产生的。德雷福斯案带来了另一个，发生在比我开始去找夫人的时期要晚的时期。斯旺的万花筒再次散落了它的小碎片。一切犹太人的东西，甚至是这位聪明的女士本人，都脱离了模式，取而代之的是各种不起眼的民族。巴黎最辉煌的客厅是一位奥地利王子和极端天主教徒的客厅。如果与德国发生战争而不是德雷福斯案，那么万花筒的底座就会转向另一个方向，其模式也会发生逆转。 令普遍惊讶的是，犹太人表明他们也是爱国者，他们会保留自己的立场，没有人愿意再去，甚至不会承认他曾经去过奥地利王子那里。然而，这一切并不妨碍身处其中的人们想象，当社会暂时静止时，不会发生进一步的变化，就像尽管亲眼目睹了电话的诞生，但他们却拒绝相信电话的存在一样。飞机。与此同时，新闻哲学家们也在工作，谴责前一个时代，不仅谴责那个时代所沉迷的享乐（在他们看来，这似乎是腐败的最后一句话），而且甚至谴责其艺术家和哲学家的作品，这些作品已经成为了腐败的罪魁祸首。在他们眼里，它们不再是最不重要的，仿佛它们与接二连三的时尚轻浮情绪有着不可分割的联系。有一件不变的事情是，无论何时，每次似乎都发生了“巨大的变化”。斯旺的德雷福斯风暴尚未爆发，一些较为著名的犹太人势力极其强大。鲁弗斯·以色列爵士（Sir Rufus Israels）尤其如此，他的妻子以色列夫人（Lady Israels）是斯旺的姨妈。她自己没有像她侄子那样杰出的熟人，而他，因为他不关心她，所以从来没有与她交往过，尽管据所知，他是她的继承人。但她是斯旺的亲戚中唯一一个了解他的社会地位的人，在这方面，其他人一直处于无知状态，而我们长期以来也对此一无所知。 当一个家庭成员从一个家庭圈子移居到“上流社会”时——这对他来说似乎是一项无与伦比的壮举，直到十年后，他观察到这一壮举已经以其他方式和出于不同的原因由超过他是他小时候认识的人之一——他在自己周围画了一个阴影区，一个未知的领域，对于所有和他一起居住的人来说，它的最微小的细节都清晰可见，但对于那些与他一起生活的人来说，它是最黑暗的夜晚和虚无。也许无法穿透它，但可以触摸它的边缘，而丝毫不怀疑它存在于他们中间。由于没有新闻机构向斯旺的堂姐妹们提供与他交往的人的情报，他们（当然是在他那令人震惊的婚姻之前）带着居高临下的微笑，在家庭餐桌上互相告诉对方，他们度过了一个“高尚”的星期天，去拜访“表弟查尔斯”，他们（把他视为一个“穷亲戚”，倾向于嫉妒他们的繁荣），他们巧妙地用巴尔扎克故事的标题来称呼他， Le Cousin Bête。然而，以色列夫人在名字和品质上都堪称完美，这些人与斯万建立了深厚的友谊，她坦率地对此感到嫉妒。她丈夫的家族几乎与罗斯柴尔德家族同等重要，几代人都在管理奥尔良王子的事务。以色列夫人非常富有，拥有广泛的影响力，她利用这种影响力来确保她认识的人都不会对奥黛特感到“宾至如归”。只有一个人暗中违背了她的命令，那就是德·马桑特伯爵夫人。然后，不幸的是，奥黛特去拜访了夫人。德·马桑特斯，以色列夫人几乎紧随其后走进了房间。女士。德·马桑特斯坐立不安。 由于那些可以自由选择行动的人的胆怯和无能，她没有对奥黛特说任何一句话，因此奥黛特没有受到任何鼓励去进一步入侵一个世界，而且，这个世界根本不是他们想要进入的世界。她希望受到欢迎。在圣日耳曼郊区的这种完全分离中，奥黛特仍然被视为文盲的“轻女人”，与那些受人尊敬的女士完全不同，她们在家谱的所有最细微的点上都“井然有序”，她们试图通过阅读传记来消除压力。并回忆起他们对贵族关系的渴望，而现实生活却没有为他们提供这种关系。而斯万，就他而言，毫无疑问仍然是一个情人，在他的眼中，一位老情妇的所有这些特点都会显得可爱，或者至少不会令人反感，因为我经常听到他的妻子宣称什么是真正的社会异端，而他却没有尝试（无论是出于对她挥之不去的感情，还是对社会的漠视，或者是厌倦了让她变得完美的努力）来纠正它们。这也许也是另一种形式的简单性，长期以来一直在贡布雷误导了我们，现在的结果是，虽然他继续认识（至少是他自己的）许多杰出人物，但他并没有做出任何贡献。在他妻子的客厅里谈话时，我们似乎觉得它们是最不重要的。事实上，对于斯万来说，他们的生活比以往任何时候都少，他生活的重心已经转移。无论如何，奥黛特对社会差别的无知是如此严重，以至于如果在谈话中，在她的堂兄公爵夫人之后提到盖尔芒特公主的名字，“那么那些人就是王子，是吗？”她会惊呼； ‘为什么，他们已经上升了一步。” 如果有人在谈到沙特尔公爵时说“王子”，她会纠正他，“你的意思是公爵； “他是沙特尔公爵，而不是亲王。”至于巴黎伯爵之子奥尔良公爵：“这很有趣；但是，这很有趣。”儿子比父亲地位高！”她会评论道，并补充道，因为她患有英国狂症，“那些版税真是令人困惑！”——而当有人问她盖尔芒特家族来自哪个省时，她回答说：“来自哪个省？”埃纳河。’

But, so far as Odette was concerned, Swann was quite blind, not merely to these deficiencies in her education but to the general mediocrity of her intelligence. More than that; whenever Odette repeated a silly story Swann would sit listening to his wife with a complacency, a merriment, almost an admiration into which some survival of his desire for her must have entered; while in the same conversation, anything subtle, anything deep even that he himself might say would be listened to by Odette with an habitual lack of interest, rather curtly, with impatience, and would at times be sharply contradicted. And we must conclude that this enslavement of refinement by vulgarity is the rule in many households, when we think, conversely, of all the superior women who yield to the blandishments of a boor, merciless in his censure of their most delicate utterances, while they go into ecstasies, with the infinite indulgence of love, over the feeblest of his witticisms. To return to the reasons which prevented Odette, at this period, from making her way into the Faubourg Saint-Germain, it must be observed that the latest turn of the social kaleidoscope had been actuated by a series of scandals. Women to whose houses one had been going with entire confidence had been discovered to be common prostitutes, if not British spies. One would, therefore, for some time to come expect people (so, at least, one supposed) to be, before anything else, in a sound position, regular, settled, accountable. Odette represented simply everything with which one had just severed relations, and was incidentally to renew them at once (for men, their natures not altering from day to day, seek in every new order a continuance of the old) but to renew them by seeking it under another form which would allow one to be innocently taken in, and to believe that it was no longer the same society as before the disaster. However, the scapegoats of that society and Odette were too closely alike. People who move in society are very short-sighted; at the moment in which they cease to have any relations with the Israelite ladies whom they have known, while they are asking themselves how they are to fill the gap thus made in their lives, they perceive, thrust into it as by the windfall of a night of storm, a new lady, an Israelite also; but by virtue of her novelty she is not associated in their minds with her predecessors, with what they are convinced that they must abjure. She does not ask that they shall respect her God. They take her up. There was no question of anti-semitism at the time when I used first to visit Odette. But she was like enough to it to remind people of what they wished, for a while, to avoid.
但是，就奥黛特而言，斯旺非常盲目，不仅没有意识到她教育中的这些缺陷，而且没有意识到她智力的普遍平庸。比那更多的;每当奥黛特重复一个愚蠢的故事时，斯旺就会坐下来听他妻子讲故事，带着一种自满、一种欢乐，几乎是一种钦佩，其中一定还残留着他对她的渴望。而在同一次谈话中，任何微妙的事情，任何深奥的事情，甚至是他自己可能说的话，奥黛特都会习惯性地缺乏兴趣，相当简短，不耐烦地听，有时还会遭到尖锐的反驳。我们必须得出这样的结论：这种粗俗对文雅的奴役是许多家庭的通行做法，相反，当我们想到所有优秀的妇女时，她们都会屈服于粗野人的花言巧语，无情地谴责她们最微妙的言论，而她们带着无限的爱的放纵，对他最微弱的俏皮话感到欣喜若狂。回到当时阻止奥黛特进入圣日耳曼郊区的原因，必须指出的是，社会万花筒的最新转折是由一系列丑闻引发的。那些人们满怀信心地去家里的妇女被发现是普通妓女，甚至是英国间谍。因此，在未来一段时间内，人们会期望人们（至少人们是这么认为的）首先处于一个良好的位置，正常，稳定，负责任。 奥杰特代表了刚刚与之断绝关系的一切事物，并且顺便顺便立即更新它们（对于男人来说，他们的本性不会日复一日地改变，在每一个新秩序中都寻求旧秩序的延续），但通过寻求来更新它们它以另一种形式存在，让人天真地被接纳，并相信它不再是灾难前的社会。然而，那个社会的替罪羊和奥黛特太相似了。在社会上活动的人都是目光短浅的；当他们不再与他们所认识的以色列女士有任何关系的那一刻，当他们问自己如何填补他们的生活中如此形成的空白时，他们认为，就像意外之财一样，他们被推入了这个空白。暴风雨之夜，一位新女士，也是一位以色列人；但由于她的新颖性，在他们的心目中，她并没有与她的前任联系在一起，也没有与他们确信必须放弃的东西联系在一起。她不要求他们尊重她的上帝。他们把她抱起来。当我第一次拜访奥黛特时，不存在反犹太主义的问题。但她足以提醒人们他们暂时希望避免的事情。

As for Swann himself, he was still a frequent visitor of several of his former acquaintance, who, of course, were all of the very highest rank. And yet when he spoke to us of the people whom he had just been to see I noticed that, among those whom he had known in the old days, the choice that he made was dictated by the same kind of taste, partly artistic, partly historic, that inspired him as a collector. And remarking that it was often some great lady or other of waning reputation, who interested him because she had been the mistress of Liszt or because one of Balzac’s novels was dedicated to her grandmother (as he would purchase a drawing if Chateaubriand had written about it) I conceived a suspicion that we had, at Combray, replaced one error, that of regarding Swann as a mere stockbroker, who did not go into society, by another, when we supposed him to be one of the smartest men in Paris. To be a friend of the Comte de Paris meant nothing at all. Is not the world full of such ‘friends of Princes,’ who would not be received in any house that was at all ‘exclusive’? Princes know themselves to be princes, and are not snobs; besides, they believe themselves to be so far above everything that is not of their blood royal that great nobles and ‘business men’ appear, in the depths beneath them, to be practically on a level.
至于斯万本人，他仍然是他的几位以前的熟人的常客，当然，他们都是最高级别的人。然而，当他向我们谈到他刚刚去见的人时，我注意到，在他过去认识的那些人中，他所做的选择是由同样的品味决定的，部分是艺术的，部分是艺术的。历史性的，这激发了他作为收藏家的灵感。他还说，经常是一些伟大的女士或其他声誉日渐衰弱的人，对他感兴趣，因为她曾是李斯特的情妇，或者因为巴尔扎克的一部小说是献给她的祖母的（因为如果夏多布里昂写过这幅画，他会购买一幅画）我怀疑我们在贡布雷用另一个错误取代了一个错误，即把斯旺视为一名纯粹的股票经纪人，而他并没有进入社会，当时我们认为他是巴黎最聪明的人之一。成为巴黎伯爵的朋友根本没有任何意义。世界上不是充满了这样的“王子之友”，他们不会被任何“排外”的房子所接待吗？王子知道自己是王子，而不是势利小人；此外，他们相信自己远远高于一切非皇室血统的人，以至于在他们的内心深处，伟大的贵族和“商人”似乎实际上处于同一水平。

But Swann went farther than this; not content with seeking in society, such as it was, when he fastened upon the names which, inscribed upon its roll by the past, were still to be read there, a simple artistic and literary pleasure, he indulged in the slightly vulgar diversion of arranging as it were social nosegays by grouping heterogeneous elements, bringing together people taken at hazard, here, there and everywhere. These experiments in the lighter side (or what was to Swann the lighter side) of sociology did not stimulate an identical reaction, with any regularity, that is to say, in each of his wife’s friends. ‘I’m thinking of asking the Cottards to meet the Duchesse de Vendôme,’ he would laughingly say to Mme. Bontemps, in the appetised tone of an epicure who has thought of, and intends to try the substitution, in a sauce, of cayenne pepper for cloves. But this plan, which was, in fact, to appear quite humorous, in an archaic sense of the word, to the Cottards, had also the power of infuriating Mme. Bontemps. She herself had recently been presented by the Swanns to the Duchesse de Vendôme, and had found this as agreeable as it seemed to her natural. The thought of winning renown from it at the Cottards’, when she related to them what had happened, had been by no means the least savoury ingredient of her pleasure. But like those persons recently decorated who, their investiture once accomplished, would like to see the fountain of honour turned off at the main, Mme. Bontemps would have preferred that, after herself, no one else in her own circle of friends should be made known to the Princess. She denounced (to herself, of course) the licentious taste of Swann who, in order to gratify a wretched aesthetic whim, was obliging her to scatter to the winds, at one swoop, all the dust that she would have thrown in the eyes of the Cottards when she told them about the Duchesse de Vendôme. How was she even to dare to announce to her husband that the Professor and his wife were in their turn to partake of this pleasure, of which she had boasted to him as though it were unique. And yet, if the Cottards could only be made to know that they were being invited not seriously but for the amusement of their host! It is true that the Bontemps had been invited for the same reason, but Swann, having acquired from the aristocracy that eternal ‘Don Juan’ spirit which, in treating with two women of no importance, makes each of them believe that it is she alone who is seriously loved, had spoken to Mme. Bontemps of the Duchesse de Vendôme as of a person whom it was clearly laid down that she must meet at dinner. ‘Yes, we’re determined to have the Princess here with the Cottards,’ said Mme. Swann a few weeks later; ‘My husband thinks that we might get something quite amusing out of that conjunction.’ For if she had retained from the ‘little nucleus’ certain habits dear to Mme. Verdurin, such as that of shouting things aloud so as to be heard by all the faithful, she made use, at the same time, of certain expressions, such as ‘conjunction,’ which were dear to the Guermantes circle, of which she thus felt unconsciously and at a distance, as the sea is swayed by the moon, the attraction, though without being drawn perceptibly closer to it. ‘Yes, the Cottards and the Duchesse de Vendôme. Don’t you think that might be rather fun?’ asked Swann. ‘I think they’ll be exceedingly ill-assorted, and it can only lead to a lot of bother; people oughtn’t to play with fire, is what I say!’ snapped Mme. Bontemps, furious. She and her husband were, all the same, invited, as was the Prince d’Agrigente, to this dinner, which Mme. Bontemps and Cottard had each two alternative ways of describing, according to whom they were telling about it. To one set Mme. Bontemps for her part, and Cottard for his would say casually, when asked who else had been of the party: ‘Only the Prince d’Agrigente; it was all quite intimate.’ But there were others who might, alas, be better informed (once, indeed, some one had challenged Cottard with: ‘But weren’t the Bontemps there too?’ ‘Oh, I forgot them,’ Cottard had blushingly admitted to the tactless questioner whom he ever afterwards classified among slanderers and speakers of evil). For these the Bontemps and Cottards had each adopted, without any mutual arrangement, a version the framework of which was identical for both parties, their own names alone changing places. ‘Let me see;’ Cottard would say, ‘there were our host and hostess, the Due and Duchesse de Vendôme—‘ (with a satisfied smile) ‘Professor and Mme. Cottard, and, upon my soul, heaven only knows how they got there, for they were about as much in keeping as hairs in the soup, M. and Mme. Bontemps!’ Mme. Bontemps would recite an exactly similar ‘piece,’ only it was M. and Mme. Bontemps who were named with a satisfied emphasis between the Duchesse de Vendôme and the Prince d’Agrigente, while the ‘also ran,’ whom finally she used to accuse of having invited themselves, and who completely spoiled the party, were the Cottards.
但斯旺走得更远。不满足于在社会中的探索，就像过去那样，当他紧紧抓住那些被过去铭刻在书卷上、仍待在那里阅读的名字时，这是一种简单的艺术和文学乐趣，他沉迷于略显粗俗的消遣中。通过将异质元素分组来安排社交花束，将这里、那里和任何地方处于危险之中的人们聚集在一起。这些社会学较轻松的一面（或者对斯万来说较轻松的一面）的实验并没有激发出任何规律性的相同反应，也就是说，没有在他妻子的每个朋友身上激发出相同的反应。 “我正在考虑请科塔尔夫妇会见旺多姆公爵夫人，”他笑着对夫人说。邦坦普斯用一种美食家的口吻说道，他已经想到并打算尝试用辣椒代替丁香。但这个计划实际上在科塔尔夫妇看来颇为幽默，具有古老的幽默感，但同时也激怒了科塔尔夫人。邦当普斯。她本人最近被斯旺家族介绍给旺多姆公爵夫人，她觉得这对她来说很自然。当她向科塔尔夫妇讲述所发生的事情时，一想到要在科塔尔家赢得名声，她的快乐绝不是最不愉快的。但是，就像那些最近受勋的人一样，他们的授予仪式一旦完成，就希望看到荣誉之泉在主楼关闭。邦当普斯更希望，除了她自己之外，她自己的朋友圈中的任何人都不应该被公主知道。 她谴责（当然是对她自己）斯旺的放荡品味，为了满足一种可怜的审美奇思妙想，她强迫她一下子把所有她可能扔进别人眼睛里的灰尘都撒到九霄云外。当她向科塔尔夫妇讲述旺多姆公爵夫人的事时。她怎么敢向她的丈夫宣布，轮到教授和他的妻子来分享这种快乐了，她曾向他吹嘘过这种快乐，好像这是独一无二的。然而，如果能够让科塔尔夫妇知道他们并不是认真地被邀请，而是为了让主人开心就好了！诚然，邦当夫妇也是出于同样的原因被邀请的，但是斯旺从贵族那里获得了永恒的“唐璜”精神，这种精神在对待两个无关紧要的女人时，让他们每个人都相信只有她一个人深受爱戴的人，曾与女士交谈过。邦当把旺多姆公爵夫人视为一个明确规定她必须在晚宴上见面的人。 “是的，我们决定让公主和科塔尔一家一起来，”夫人说。几周后斯旺； “我丈夫认为我们可能会从这种结合中得到一些非常有趣的东西。”因为如果她从“小核心”中保留了某些对夫人来说很珍贵的习惯。维尔迪兰，例如大声喊叫，以便让所有忠实的信徒听到，她同时使用了某些表达方式，例如“连词”，这是盖尔芒特圈子所珍视的，因此她使用了这些表达方式。不知不觉中，在远处感受到，就像大海被月亮摇曳一样，这种吸引力，尽管没有明显地被拉近。 “是的，科塔尔夫妇和旺多姆公爵夫人。你不觉得这很有趣吗？”斯旺问道。 “我认为它们会非常不协调，这只会带来很多麻烦；人们不应该玩火，这就是我所说的！”夫人厉声说道。邦当普斯，愤怒了。尽管如此，她和她的丈夫以及阿格里让特亲王都被邀请参加这次晚宴。据他们讲述的内容，邦当普斯和科塔尔各有两种不同的描述方式。给一套女士。当被问及这次聚会中还有谁时，邦当和科塔尔都会漫不经心地说：“只有阿格里让特亲王；只有阿格里真特亲王；” ” 但是，唉，还有其他人可能更了解情况（确实，有一次，有人向科塔尔挑战：“但是邦当夫妇不也在场吗？”“哦，我忘了他们了，”科塔尔脸红地承认了这位不圆滑的提问者，后来他将他归为诽谤者和邪恶言者。对于这些，邦当和科塔尔在没有任何相互安排的情况下各自采用了一个版本，其框架对于双方来说都是相同的，只是他们自己的名字改变了位置。 “让我想想，”科塔尔会说，“我们的主人和女主人，旺多姆公爵和公爵夫人——”（带着满意的微笑）“教授和夫人。”科塔尔，我的灵魂，天知道他们是如何到达那里的，因为他们就像汤里的头发一样保持不变，M.和Mme。邦当！’女士。邦当普斯会背诵一首完全相同的“作品”，只不过是M.和Mme。邦当的名字在旺多姆公爵夫人和阿格里让特亲王之间得到了满意的强调，而“也跑了”，最后她用来指责自己邀请了自己，并且彻底破坏了聚会，那就是科塔尔家族。

When he had been paying calls Swann would often come home with little time to spare before dinner. At that point in the evening, six o’clock, when in the old days he had felt so wretched, he no longer asked himself what Odette might be about, and was hardly at all concerned to hear that she had people still with her, or had gone out. He recalled at times that he had once, years ago, tried to read through its envelope a letter addressed by Odette to Forcheville. But this memory was not pleasing to him, and rather than plumb the depth of shame that he felt in it he preferred to indulge in a little grimace, twisting up the corners of his mouth and adding, if need be, a shake of the head which signified ‘What does it all matter?’ In truth, he considered now that the hypothesis by which he had often been brought to a standstill in days gone by, according to which it was his jealous imagination alone that blackened what was in reality the innocent life of Odette—that this hypothesis (which after all was beneficent, since, so long as his amorous malady had lasted, it had diminished his sufferings by making them seem imaginary) was not the truth, that it was his jealousy that had seen things in the right light, and that if Odette had loved him better than he supposed, she had deceived him more as well. Formerly, while his sufferings were still keen, he had vowed that, as soon as he should have ceased to love Odette, and so to be afraid either of vexing her or of making her believe that he loved her more than he did, he would afford himself the satisfaction of elucidating with her, simply from his love of truth and as a historical point, whether or not she had had Forcheville in her room that day when he had rung her bell and rapped on her window without being let in, and she had written to Forcheville that it was an uncle of hers who had called. But this so interesting problem, of which he was waiting to attempt the solution only until his jealousy should have subsided, had precisely lost all interest in Swann’s eyes when he had ceased to be jealous. Not immediately, however. He felt no other jealousy now with regard to Odette than what the memory of that day, that afternoon spent in knocking vainly at the little house in the Rue La Pérouse, had continued to excite in him; as though his jealousy, not dissimilar in that respect from those maladies which appear to have their seat, their centre of contagion less in certain persons than in certain places, in certain houses, had had for its object not so much Odette herself as that day, that hour in the irrevocable past when Swann had beaten at every entrance to her house in turn. You would have said that that day, that hour alone had caught and preserved a few last fragments of the amorous personality which had once been Swann’s, and that there alone could he now recapture them. For a long time now it had made no matter to him that Odette had been false to him, and was false still. And yet he had continued for some years to seek out old servants of Odette, so strongly in him persisted the painful curiosity to know whether on that day, so long ago, at six o’clock, Odette had been in bed with Forcheville. Then that curiosity itself had disappeared, without, however, his abandoning his investigations. He continued the attempt to discover what no longer interested him, because his old ego though it had shrivelled to the extreme of decrepitude still acted mechanically, following the course of preoccupations so utterly abandoned that Swann could not now succeed even in forming an idea of that anguish—so compelling once that he had been unable to foresee his ever being delivered from it, that only the death of her whom he loved (death which, as will be shewn later on in this story, by a cruel example, in no way diminishes the sufferings caused by jealousy) seemed to him capable of making smooth the road, then insurmountably barred to him, of his life.
当斯旺打电话时，他常常在晚饭前几乎没有时间回家。傍晚六点钟的那个时刻，在过去的日子里，他感到如此悲惨，他不再问自己奥黛特可能在做什么，也几乎不关心听到她还有人陪着她，或者已经出去了。他有时回忆起，几年前，他曾经试图通过信封阅读奥黛特写给福什维尔的一封信。但这段记忆并不令他愉快，他宁愿沉溺于做个鬼脸，扭曲嘴角，如果需要的话，还可以摇头。这意味着“这一切有什么关系？”事实上，他现在考虑的是过去的日子里他经常陷入停滞的假设，根据这个假设，只有他嫉妒的想象力才使现实的事物变得黑化。奥杰特无辜的生活——这个假设（这毕竟是仁慈的，因为只要他的多情病持续存在，它就通过使痛苦显得虚幻而减轻了他的痛苦）不是事实，是他的嫉妒心导致了他的痛苦。如果奥黛特比他想象的更爱他，那么她也欺骗了他更多。 以前，当他的痛苦还很强烈时，他发誓，一旦他不再爱奥黛特，以免惹恼她或让她相信他比自己更爱她，他就会仅仅出于他对真理的热爱，并作为一个历史点，他能让自己满意地向她解释清楚，那天福什维尔按响了她的门铃，敲了敲她的窗户，却没有让她进来，她是否有福什维尔在她的房间里，并且她写信给福什维尔说是她叔叔打来的电话。但这个如此有趣的问题，他一直等到他的嫉妒消退才试图解决这个问题，而当斯万不再嫉妒时，他却对这个问题失去了所有的兴趣。然而，不是立即。现在，他对奥黛特不再感到嫉妒，只是那天下午，徒劳地敲着拉佩鲁斯街的小房子的记忆继续在他心中兴奋着。就好像他的嫉妒心，在这方面与那些似乎有其根源的疾病没有什么不同，它们的传染中心似乎在某些人身上而不是在某些地方、某些房子里，其对象与其说是奥黛特本人，不如说是那天，在不可挽回的过去的那个时刻，斯万轮流敲打她家的每个入口。你可能会说，那一天，仅仅那一刻，就捕捉并保存了斯万曾经的多情个性的最后一些碎片，而现在他只能重新捕捉它们了。很长一段时间以来，他都觉得奥黛特对他不忠，而且仍然不忠。 然而，多年来他一直在寻找奥黛特的老仆人，他内心深处一直有一种痛苦的好奇心，想知道在很久以前的那天，六点钟，奥黛特是否已经和福什维尔上床了。然后，好奇心本身就消失了，但他并没有放弃调查。他继续尝试去发现他不再感兴趣的东西，因为他的旧自我虽然已经枯萎到了极点，但仍然机械地运作，遵循完全放弃的全神贯注的过程，以至于斯旺现在甚至无法成功地形成一个想法痛苦——如此强烈，以至于他无法预见自己能从痛苦中解脱出来，只有他所爱的她的死亡（死亡，正如本故事后面将通过一个残酷的例子所表明的那样，绝不是一种痛苦）减少嫉妒所造成的痛苦）在他看来似乎能够使他的生活道路变得平坦，而这条道路当时对他来说是不可逾越的障碍。

But to bring to light, some day, those passages in the life of Odette to which he owed his sufferings had not been Swann’s only ambition; he had in reserve that also of wreaking vengeance for his sufferings when, being no longer in love with Odette, he should no longer be afraid of her; and the opportunity of gratifying this second ambition had just occurred, for Swann was in love with another woman, a woman who gave him—grounds for jealousy, no, but who did all the same make him jealous, because he was not capable, now, of altering his way of making love, and it was the way he had used with Odette that must serve him now for another. To make Swann’s jealousy revive it was not essential that this woman should be unfaithful, it sufficed that for any reason she was separated from him, at a party for instance, where she was presumably enjoying herself. That was enough to reawaken in him the old anguish, that lamentable and inconsistent excrescence of his love, which held Swann ever at a distance from what she really was, like a yearning to attain the impossible (what this young woman really felt for him, the hidden longing that absorbed her days, the secret places of her heart), for between Swann and her whom he loved this anguish piled up an unyielding mass of already existing suspicions, having their cause in Odette, or in some other perhaps who had preceded Odette, allowing this now ageing lover to know his mistress of the moment only in the traditional and collective phantasm of the ‘woman who made him jealous,’ in which he had arbitrarily incarnated his new love. Often, however, Swann would charge his jealousy with the offence of making him believe in imaginary infidelities; but then he would remember that he had given Odette the benefit of the same argument and had in that been wrong. And so everything that the young woman whom he loved did in those hours when he was not with her appeared spoiled of its innocence in his eyes. But whereas at that other time he had made a vow that if ever he ceased to love her whom he did not then imagine to be his future wife, he would implacably exhibit to her an indifference that would at length be sincere, so as to avenge his pride that had so long been trampled upon by her—of those reprisals which he might now enforce without risk to himself (for what harm could it do him to be taken at his word and deprived of those intimate moments with Odette that had been so necessary to him once), of those reprisals he took no more thought; with his love had vanished the desire to shew that he was in love no longer. And he who, when he was suffering at the hands of Odette, would have looked forward so keenly to letting her see one day that he had fallen to a rival, now that he was in a position to do so took infinite precautions lest his wife should suspect the existence of this new love.
但有一天，要揭露奥黛特一生中那些让他遭受苦难的经历，并不是斯旺唯一的野心；当他不再爱奥黛特、不再害怕她时，他也保留了为自己所受的痛苦报仇的念头。满足第二个野心的机会刚刚出现，因为斯万爱上了另一个女人，这个女人给了他嫉妒的理由，不，但她仍然让他嫉妒，因为他现在没有能力。 ，改变他做爱的方式，而他与奥黛特使用的方式现在必须为他服务。要让斯旺的嫉妒心重新燃起来，这个女人并不一定要不忠，只要她出于某种原因与他分开就足够了，比如在一个聚会上，她可能正在那里玩得很开心。这足以让他重新唤醒昔日的痛苦，那种可悲的、前后矛盾的爱的赘肉，使斯旺与她的真实身份永远保持着距离，就像一种对实现不可能的事物的渴望（这个年轻女人对他的真实感受，隐藏的渴望占据了她的日子，她内心的秘密地方），因为在斯旺和他所爱的她之间，这种痛苦堆积了一大堆已经存在的猜疑，其原因在于奥黛特，或者也许是其他某个先前的人。奥黛特只允许这位现在年迈的情人在“让他嫉妒的女人”的传统和集体幻想中认识他当下的情人，在这个幻想中，他任意地化身为他的新爱。 然而，斯万经常指责他的嫉妒心让他相信想象中的不忠。但随后他会想起，他曾从同样的论点中给了奥黛特好处，但他错了。因此，他所爱的年轻女子在他不在的时候所做的一切，在他眼中都显得天真无邪。但是，当时他曾发誓，如果他不再爱她，而他当时并没有想象她是他未来的妻子，他就会毫不留情地向她表现出一种最终是真诚的冷漠，以便报复他的自尊心早已被她践踏了——他现在可以在不冒任何风险的情况下实施报复（如果他听信了自己的话，被剥夺了与奥黛特的那些亲密时刻，这对他有什么坏处呢？曾经对他来说是必要的），他不再考虑那些报复；随着他的爱消失了，他不再想表明自己不再相爱了。当他在奥黛特手中受苦时，他会如此热切地盼望有一天让她看到他已经落入了一个竞争对手的手中，现在他有能力这样做，他采取了无限的预防措施，以免他的妻子应该怀疑这段新恋情的存在。

*****

It was not only in those tea-parties, on account of which I had formerly had the sorrow of seeing Gilberte leave me and go home earlier than usual, that I was henceforth to take part, but the engagements that she had with her mother, to go for a walk or to some afternoon party, which by preventing her from coming to the Champs-Elysées had deprived me of her, on those days when I loitered alone upon the lawn or stood before the wooden horses,—to these outings M. and Mme. Swann henceforth admitted me, I had a seat in their landau, and indeed it was me that they asked if I would rather go to the theatre, to a dancing lesson at the house of one of Gilberte’s friends, to some social gathering given by friends of her parents (what Odette called ‘a little meeting’) or to visit the tombs at Saint-Denis.
从此以后，我不仅要参加那些茶会，因为看到希尔贝特离开我，比平时更早回家，我曾为此感到悲伤，而且她和她母亲的约会，去散步或参加某个下午的聚会，因为阻止她来香榭丽舍大街，我就失去了她，在那些日子里，当我独自漫步在草坪上或站在木马前时，——这些郊游M .和夫人。斯旺从此接纳了我，我在他们的四轮大篷车里有一个座位，事实上，他们问我是否愿意去剧院，去吉尔贝特的一位朋友家里上舞蹈课，参加朋友举办的一些社交聚会她的父母（奥黛特称之为“一次小聚会”）或参观圣但尼的坟墓。

On days when I was going anywhere with the Swanns I would arrive at the house in time for déjeuner, which Mme. Swann called ‘le lunch’; as one was not expected before half-past twelve, while my parents in those days had their meal at a quarter past eleven, it was not until they had risen from the table that I made my way towards that sumptuous quarter, deserted enough at any hour, but more particularly just then, when everyone had gone indoors. Even on winter days of frost, if the weather held, tightening every few minutes the knot of a gorgeous necktie from Charvet’s and looking to see that my varnished boots were not getting dirty, I would roam to and fro among the avenues, waiting until twenty-seven minutes past the hour. I could see from afar in the Swanns’ little garden-plot the sunlight glittering like hoar frost from the bare-boughed trees. It is true that the garden boasted but a pair of them. The unusual hour presented the scene in a new light. Into these pleasures of nature (intensified by the suppression of habit and indeed by my physical hunger) the thrilling prospect of sitting down to luncheon with Mme. Swann was infused; it did not diminish them, but taking command of them trained them to its service; so that if, at this hour when ordinarily I did not perceive them, I seemed now to be discovering the fine weather, the cold, the wintry sunlight, it was all as a sort of preface to the creamed eggs, as a patina, a cool and coloured glaze applied to the decoration of that mystic chapel which was the habitation of Mme. Swann, and in the heart of which there were, by contrast, so much warmth, so many scents and flowers.
当我和斯旺一家去任何地方的时候，我都会准时到达家里参加午宴。斯旺称其为“le Lunch”；因为预计十二点半之前不会有客人，而那时我的父母十一点一刻才吃饭，直到他们从餐桌上站起来后，我才向那个豪华的地方走去，那里任何时候都冷清得很。一个小时，但更特别的是就在那时，当每个人都进入室内时。即使是在霜冻的冬日，如果天气好的话，我也会每隔几分钟就系一下查维特的华丽领带，看看我的漆皮靴子有没有被弄脏，我就会在大街上来回漫步，等到二十点。 -整点过七分。我远远地就能看到斯旺家的小园地里阳光闪闪发光，就像光秃秃的树上的白霜一样。确实，花园里只有一对。这个不寻常的时刻让这一场景焕然一新。在这些自然的乐趣中（由于习惯的抑制，实际上是由于我的身体饥饿而加剧），与夫人坐下来共进午餐的令人兴奋的前景。斯旺被注入了力量；它并没有削弱他们，而是指挥他们训练他们为它服务。因此，如果说，在这个平时我没有察觉到它们的时刻，我现在似乎发现了好天气、寒冷、冬日的阳光，这一切都像是奶油鸡蛋的序言，像是一种铜绿，一种这座神秘的教堂是夫人的住所，其装饰采用了凉爽的彩色釉料。相比之下，斯旺的中心充满了温暖、香气和花朵。

At half-past twelve I would finally make up my mind to enter that house which, like an immense Christmas stocking, seemed ready to bestow upon me supernatural delights. (The French name ‘Noël’ was, by the way, unknown to Mme. Swann and Gilberte, who had substituted for it the English ‘Christmas,’ and would speak of nothing but ‘Christmas pudding,’ what people had given them as ‘Christmas presents’ and of going away—the thought of which maddened me with grief—‘for Christmas.’ At home even, I should have thought it degrading to use the word ‘Noël,’ and always said ‘Christmas,’ which my father considered extremely silly.)
十二点半，我终于下定决心要走进那所房子，它就像一只巨大的圣诞袜，似乎准备好给我带来超自然的快乐。 （顺便说一下，斯旺夫人和吉尔伯特不知道法语名字“Noël”，她们用英语“Christmas”来代替它，除了“圣诞布丁”之外什么也不说，人们给他们的称呼是“圣诞布丁”。圣诞礼物”和离开——想到这一点让我悲伤得发疯——“为了圣诞节。”即使在家里，我也认为使用“诺埃尔”这个词是有辱人格的，所以总是说“圣诞节”，这是我父亲的说法被认为非常愚蠢。）

I encountered no one at first but a footman who after leading me through several large drawing-rooms shewed me into one that was quite small, empty, its windows beginning to dream already in the blue light of afternoon; I was left alone there in the company of orchids, roses and violets, which, like people who are kept waiting in a room beside you but do not know you, preserved a silence which their individuality as living things made all the more impressive, and received coldly the warmth of a glowing fire of coals, preciously displayed behind a screen of crystal, in a basin of white marble over which it spilled, now and again, its perilous rubies.
一开始我只遇到了一个男仆，他领着我穿过几间大客厅后，带我走进一间相当小、空荡荡的房间，它的窗户在午后的蓝光中已经开始进入梦境。我独自一人留在兰花、玫瑰和紫罗兰的陪伴下，它们就像在你旁边的房间里等待但不认识你的人一样，保持着沉默，它们作为生物的个性使之更加令人印象深刻。冰冷地接收着煤火的温暖，在水晶屏风后面，在白色大理石盆里，它时不时地洒满了危险的红宝石。

I had sat down, but I rose hurriedly on hearing the door opened; it was only another footman, and then a third, and the minute result chat their vainly alarming entrances and exits achieved was to put a little more coal on the fire or water in the vases. They departed, I found myself alone, once that door was shut which Mme. Swann was surely soon going to open. Of a truth, I should have been less ill at ease in a magician’s cave than in this little waiting-room where the fire appeared to me to be performing alchemical transmutations as in Klingsor’s laboratory. Footsteps sounded afresh, I did not rise, it was sure to be just another footman; it was M. Swann. ‘What! All by yourself? What is one to do; that poor wife of mine has never been able to remember what time means! Ten minutes to one. She gets later every day. And you’ll see, she will come sailing in without the least hurry, and imagine she’s in heaps of time.’ And as he was still subject to neuritis, and as he was becoming a trifle ridiculous, the fact of possessing so unpunctual a wife, who came in so late from the Bois, forgot everything at her dressmaker’s and was never in time for luncheon made Swann anxious for his digestion but flattered his self-esteem.
我已经坐下了，但听到开门声，我赶紧站起来。只是另一个仆人，然后是第三个，他们徒劳地令人惊慌的入口和出口所达到的微小结果就是在火上多放了一点煤，或者在花瓶里加了水。他们走了，我发现我独自一人，一旦那扇门关上，夫人。斯旺肯定很快就会开业。事实上，我在魔术师的洞穴里应该不会比在这个小候诊室里更不自在，在我看来，那里的火就像在克林索尔的实验室里一样，正在进行炼金术的转变。脚步声又响起，我没有起身，肯定是又一个男仆；是斯旺先生。 '什么！靠你自己？一个人该做什么；我那个可怜的妻子从来不记得时间意味着什么！十分钟一分。她每天都迟到。你会看到，她会毫不匆忙地航行过来，想象她有很多时间。”由于他仍然患有神经炎，而且他变得有点可笑，事实上拥有如此不守时的妻子从布瓦回来得太晚了，把裁缝店里的一切都忘记了，而且从来没有来得及吃午饭，这让斯旺担心自己的消化问题，但也让他的自尊心受宠若惊。

He shewed me his latest acquisitions and explained their interest to me, but my emotion, added to the unfamiliarity of being still without food at this hour, sweeping through my mind left it void, so that while able to speak I was incapable of hearing. Anyhow, so far as the works of art in Swann’s possession were concerned, it was enough for me that they were contained in his house, formed a part there of the delicious hour that preceded luncheon. The Gioconda herself might have appeared there without giving me any more pleasure than one of Mme. Swann’s indoor gowns, or her scent bottles.
他向我展示了他最新购买的物品，并向我解释了它们的兴趣，但我的情绪，再加上此时没有食物的陌生感，席卷了我的大脑，让我的大脑一片空白，所以虽然能说话，但我却听不见。无论如何，就斯万拥有的艺术品而言，对我来说，它们被放在他的家里就足够了，成为午餐前美好时光的一部分。乔康达本人可能出现在那里，但不会给我带来比乔康达夫人更多的乐趣。斯旺的室内礼服，或者她的香水瓶。

I continued to wait, alone or with Swann, and often with Gilberte, come in to keep us company. The arrival of Mme. Swann, prepared for me by all those majestic apparitions, must (so it seemed to me) be something truly immense. I strained my ears to catch the slightest sound. But one never finds quite as high as one has been expecting a cathedral, a wave in a storm, a dancer’s leap in the air; after those liveried footmen, suggesting the chorus whose processional entry upon the stage leads up to and at the same time diminishes the final appearance of the queen, Mme. Swann, creeping furtively in, with a little otter-skin coat, her veil lowered to cover a nose pink-tipped by the cold, did not fulfil the promises lavished, while I had been waiting, upon my imagination.
我继续等待，独自一人或与斯旺一起，并经常与吉尔贝特一起进来陪伴我们。夫人的到来。斯旺，所有那些雄伟的幽灵为我准备的，一定（在我看来）是真正巨大的东西。我竖起耳朵，试图捕捉最轻微的声音。但人们永远不会发现一座大教堂、暴风雨中的波浪、舞者在空中跳跃的高度；在那些穿着制服的男仆之后，暗示着合唱团的游行进入舞台导致了女王，夫人的最后出现，同时也减少了这一点。斯旺穿着一件水獭皮小外套，偷偷地溜了进来，面纱拉低，盖住了因寒冷而尖成粉红色的鼻子，她并没有兑现我在等待时所许下的诺言。

But if she had stayed at home all morning, when she arrived in the drawing-room she would be clad in a wrapper of crêpe-de-Chine, brightly coloured, which seemed to me more exquisite than any of her dresses.
但如果她整个早上都待在家里，当她到达客厅时，她会穿着一件色彩鲜艳的双绉裹布，在我看来，这比她的任何衣服都精致。

Sometimes the Swanns decided to remain in the house all afternoon, and then, as we had had luncheon so late, very soon I must watch setting, beyond the garden-wall, the sun of that day which had seemed to me bound to be different from other days; then in vain might the servants bring in lamps of every size and shape, burning each upon the consecrated altar of a console, a card-table, a corner-cupboard, a bracket, as though for the celebration of some strange and secret rite; nothing extraordinary transpired in the conversation, and I went home disappointed, as one often is in one’s childhood after the midnight mass.
有时斯旺夫妇决定整个下午都待在房子里，然后，由于我们吃午饭的时间太晚了，很快我就必须在花园墙外观看落日，那天的太阳在我看来注定是不同的其他日子；然后，仆人们徒劳地把各种大小和形状的灯带进来，在控制台、牌桌、角柜、支架的神圣祭坛上燃烧，好像是为了庆祝某种奇怪而秘密的仪式；谈话中并没有发生什么特别的事情，我失望地回家了，就像小时候在午夜弥撒后经常遇到的情况一样。

But my disappointment was scarcely more than mental. I was radiant with happiness in this house where Gilberte, when she was still not with us, was about to appear and would bestow on me in a moment, and for hours to come, her speech, her smiling and attentive gaze, just as I had caught it, that first time, at Combray. At the most I was a trifle jealous when I saw her so often disappear into vast rooms above, reached by a private staircase. Obliged myself to remain in the drawing-room, like a man in love with an actress who is confined to his stall ‘in front’ and wonders anxiously what is going on behind the scenes, in the green-room, I put to Swann, with regard to this other part of the house questions artfully veiled, but in a tone from which I could not quite succeed in banishing the note of uneasiness. He explained to me that the place to which Gilberte had gone was the linen-room, offered himself to shew it to me, and promised me that whenever Gilberte Had occasion to go there again he would insist upon her taking me with her. By these last words and the relief which they brought me Swann at once annihilated for me one of those terrifying interior perspectives at the end of which a woman with whom we are in love appears so remote. At that moment I felt for him an affection which I believed to be deeper than my affection for Gilberte. For he, being the master over his daughter, was giving her to me, whereas she, she withheld herself now and then, I had not the same direct control over her as I had indirectly through Swann. Besides, it was she whom I loved and could not, therefore look upon without that disturbance, without that desire for something more which destroys in us, in the presence of one whom we love, the sensation of loving.
但我的失望仅仅只是精神上的。在这栋房子里，我洋溢着幸福的光芒，希尔贝特（Gilberte）还没和我们在一起时，她就要出现了，她会在接下来的几个小时里给我带来她的演讲、她的微笑和专注的目光，就像我一样第一次是在贡布雷捕获的。当我看到她经常消失在上面的巨大房间里，通过私人楼梯到达时，我至多有一点嫉妒。我强迫自己留在客厅里，就像一个男人爱上了一位女演员，她被限制在“前面”的摊位里，焦急地想知道在幕后、在演员休息室里发生了什么，我对斯旺说，关于房子的另一部分的问题被巧妙地掩盖了，但我无法完全消除不安的语气。他向我解释说，吉尔贝特去的地方是亚麻布房，主动提出要带我去看，并向我保证，每当吉尔贝特有机会再去那里时，他都会坚持让她带我一起去。斯万的这最后一句话以及它们给我带来的解脱，立刻为我消灭了一种可怕的内心视角，在这种视角的结尾，我们所爱的女人显得如此遥远。在那一刻，我对他产生了一种感情，我相信这种感情比我对希尔贝特的感情更深。因为他作为他女儿的主人，把她交给了我，而她，她时不时地克制自己，我对她的直接控制不像我通过斯旺间接控制的那样。此外，我爱的是她，但我不能在看着她时没有那种干扰，没有那种对更多东西的渴望，这种渴望会在我们所爱的人面前摧毁我们的爱的感觉。

As a rule, however, we did not stay indoors, we went out. Sometimes, before going to dress, Mme. Swann would sit down at the piano. Her lovely hands, escaping from the pink, or white, or, often, vividly coloured sleeves of her crêpe-de-Chine wrapper, drooped over the keys with that same melancholy which was in her eyes but was not in her heart. It was on one of those days that she happened to play me the part of Vinteuil’s sonata that contained the little phrase of which Swann had been so fond. But often one listens and hears nothing, if it is a piece of music at all complicated to which one is listening for the first time. And yet when, later on, this sonata had been played over to me two or three times I found that I knew it quite well. And so it is not wrong to speak of hearing a thing for the first time. If one had indeed, as one supposes, received no impression from the first hearing, the second, the third would be equally ‘first hearings’ and there would be no reason why one should understand it any better after the tenth. Probably what is wanting, the first time, is not comprehension but memory. For our memory, compared to the complexity of the impressions which it has to face while we are listening, is infinitesimal, as brief as the memory of a man who in his sleep thinks of a thousand things and at once forgets them, or as that of a man in his second childhood who cannot recall, a minute afterwards, what one has just been saying to him. Of these multiple impressions our memory is not capable of furnishing us with an immediate picture. But that picture gradually takes shape, and, with regard to works which we have heard more than once, we are like the schoolboy who has read several times over before going to sleep a lesson which he supposed himself not to know, and finds that he can repeat it by heart next morning. It was only that I had not, until then, heard a note of the sonata, whereas Swann and his wife could make out a distinct phrase that was as far beyond the range of my perception as a name which one endeavours to recall and in place of which one discovers only a void, a void from which, an hour later, when one is not thinking about them, will spring of their own accord, in one continuous flight, the syllables that one has solicited in vain. And not only does one not seize at once and retain an impression of works that are really great, but even in the content of any such work (as befell me in the case of Vinteuil’s sonata) it is the least valuable parts that one at first perceives. Thus it was that I was mistaken not only in thinking that this work held nothing further in store for me (so that for a long time I made no effort to hear it again) from the moment in which Mme. Swann had played over to me its most famous passage; I was in this respect as stupid as people are who expect to feel no astonishment when they stand in Venice before the front of Saint Mark’s, because photography has already acquainted them with the outline of its domes. Far more than that, even when I had heard the sonata played from beginning to end, it remained almost wholly invisible to me, like a monument of which its distance or a haze in the atmosphere allows us to catch but a faint and fragmentary glimpse. Hence the depression inseparable from one’s knowledge of such works, as of everything that acquires reality in time. When the least obvious beauties of Vinteuil’s sonata were revealed to me, already, borne by the force of habit beyond the reach of my sensibility, those that I had from the first distinguished and preferred in it were beginning to escape, to avoid me. Since I was able only in successive moments to enjoy all the pleasures that this sonata gave me, I never possessed it in its entirety: it was like life itself. But, less disappointing than life is, great works of art do not begin by giving us all their best. In Vinteuil’s sonata the beauties that one discovers at once are those also of which one most soon grows tired, and for the same reason, no doubt, namely that they are less different from what one already knows. But when those first apparitions have withdrawn, there is left for our enjoyment some passage which its composition, too new and strange to offer anything but confusion to our mind, had made indistinguishable and so preserved intact; and this, which we have been meeting every day and have not guessed it, which has thus been held in reserve for us, which by the sheer force of its beauty has become invisible and has remained unknown, this comes to us last of all. But this also must be the last that we shall relinquish. And we shall love it longer than the rest because we have taken longer to get to love it. The time, moreover, that a person requires—as I required in the matter of this sonata—to penetrate a work of any depth is merely an epitome, a symbol, one might say, of the years, the centuries even that must elapse before the public can begin to cherish a masterpiece that is really new. So that the man of genius, to shelter himself from the ignorant contempt of the world, may say to himself that, since one’s contemporaries are incapable of the necessary detachment, works written for posterity should be read by posterity alone, like certain pictures which one cannot appreciate when one stands too close to them. But, as it happens, any such cowardly precaution to avoid false judgments is doomed to failure; they are inevitable. The reason for which a work of genius is not easily admired from the first is that the man who has created it is extraordinary, that few other men resemble him. It was Beethoven’s Quartets themselves (the Twelfth, Thirteenth, Fourteenth and Fifteenth) that devoted half a century to forming, fashioning and enlarging a public for Beethoven’s Quartets, marking in this way, like every great work of art, an advance if not in artistic merit at least in intellectual society, largely composed to-day of what was not to be found when the work first appeared, that is to say of persons capable of enjoying it. What artists call posterity is the posterity of the work of art. It is essential that the work (leaving out of account, for brevity’s sake, the contingency that several men of genius may at the same time be working along parallel lines to create a more instructed public in the future, a public from which other men of genius shall reap the benefit) shall create its own posterity. For if the work were held in reserve, were revealed only to posterity, that audience, for that particular work, would be not posterity but a group of contemporaries who were merely living half-a-century later in time. And so it is essential that the artist (and this is what Vinteuil had done), if he wishes his work to be free to follow its own course, shall launch it, wherever he may find sufficient depth, confidently outward bound towards the future. And yet this interval of time, the true perspective in which to behold a work of art, if leaving it out of account is the mistake made by bad judges, taking it into account is at times a dangerous precaution of the good. No doubt one can easily imagine, by an illusion similar to that which makes everything on the horizon appear equidistant, that all the revolutions which have hitherto occurred in painting or in music did at least shew respect for certain rules, whereas that which immediately confronts us, be it impressionism, a striving after discord, an exclusive use of the Chinese scale, cubism, futurism or what you will, differs outrageously from all that have occurred before. Simply because those that have occurred before we are apt to regard as a whole, forgetting that a long process of assimilation has melted them into a continuous substance, varied of course but, taking it as a whole, homogeneous, in which Hugo blends with Molière. Let us try to imagine the shocking incoherence that we should find, if we did not take into account the future, and the changes that it must bring about, in a horoscope of our own riper years, drawn and presented to us in our youth. Only horoscopes are not always accurate, and the necessity, when judging a work of art, of including the temporal factor in the sum total of its beauty introduces, to our way of thinking, something as hazardous, and consequently as barren of interest, as every prophecy the non-fulfilment of which will not at all imply any inadequacy on the prophet’s part, for the power to summon possibilities into existence or to exclude them from it is not necessarily within the competence of genius; one may have had genius and yet not have believed in the future of railways or of flight, or, although a brilliant psychologist, in the infidelity of a mistress or of a friend whose treachery persons far less gifted would have foreseen.
然而，通常我们不会呆在室内，而是出去了。有时，在穿衣服之前，夫人。斯旺会坐在钢琴前。她那双可爱的手，从她的双绉包装纸的粉色、白色，或者常常是色彩鲜艳的袖子里伸出来，垂在琴键上，带着她眼中却不在心里的同样的忧郁。就在那些日子里，她碰巧给我扮演了万特伊奏鸣曲中的一个角色，其中包含斯旺非常喜欢的一小段乐句。但如果是第一次听的一首非常复杂的音乐，人们通常会听却什么也听不到。然而后来，当这首奏鸣曲给我演奏了两三遍时，我发现我对它已经很熟悉了。因此，说第一次听到某件事并没有错。如果确实像人们想象的那样，第一次听证会没有得到任何印象，那么第二次、第三次就同样是“第一次听证会”，没有理由在第十次之后人们会更好地理解它。也许，第一次所需要的不是理解，而是记忆。因为我们的记忆，与我们在聆听时必须面对的印象的复杂性相比，是无限小的，就像一个人在睡梦中想到一千件事然后立即忘记它们的记忆一样短暂，或者就像一个人的记忆一样短暂。一个处于第二个童年的男人，一分钟后就记不起别人刚刚对他说了些什么。对于这些多重印象，我们的记忆无法立即为我们提供一幅画面。 但这样的画面逐渐成形，对于我们不止一次听过的作品，我们就像一个小学生，在睡觉前读了几遍他认为自己不知道的课程，然后发现他第二天早上可以背诵。只是直到那时我才听到奏鸣曲的一个音符，而斯旺和他的妻子却能听出一个明显的短语，它远远超出了我的感知范围，就像一个人努力回忆和到位的名字一样。人们只发现其中的一个空洞，一个小时后，当一个人不去想它们时，这个空洞就会从这个空洞中，在一次连续的飞翔中，自动地跳出人们徒劳地请求的音节。人们不仅不会立即抓住并保留真正伟大的作品的印象，而且即使在任何此类作品的内容中（正如我在凡特伊奏鸣曲的情况下发生的那样），它也是人们一开始认为最不有价值的部分。察觉到。因此，我不仅错误地认为这部作品对我来说没有任何进一步的意义（因此很长一段时间我没有努力再听一遍）。斯旺向我播放了其中最著名的一段；在这方面，我和那些希望站在威尼斯圣马可大教堂前不会感到惊讶的人一样愚蠢，因为摄影已经让他们熟悉了它圆顶的轮廓。更重要的是，即使我从头到尾听了这首奏鸣曲，它对我来说仍然几乎是完全看不见的，就像一座纪念碑，它的距离或大气中的薄雾使我们只能瞥见微弱而零碎的一瞥。 因此，抑郁症与人们对这些作品的了解密不可分，就像对一切及时获得现实的东西的了解密不可分。当万特伊奏鸣曲中最不明显的美感展现在我面前时，已经被习惯的力量所承受，超出了我的感觉范围，那些我从一开始就在其中所区分和偏爱的美感开始逃避，避开我。由于我只能在连续的时刻享受这首奏鸣曲给我的所有乐趣，所以我从未完全拥有它：它就像生活本身。但是，比生活更令人失望的是，伟大的艺术作品并不是一开始就把最好的东西都给了我们。在万特伊的奏鸣曲中，人们立刻发现的美也是人们很快就会厌倦的，毫无疑问，出于同样的原因，即它们与人们已经知道的东西没有什么不同。但是，当那些最初的幻影消失后，留下了一些段落供我们欣赏，它的构成太新奇了，除了给我们的头脑带来混乱之外，无法给我们带来任何东西，已经使我们难以区分，因此完好无损地保存下来；而这个我们每天都在遇见却没有猜到的东西，因此为我们保留着，它凭借其美丽的纯粹力量而变得不可见，并且一直不为人知，它是最后才来到我们身边的。但这也必须是我们最后要放弃的。我们会比其他人更爱它，因为我们花了更长的时间才爱上它。此外，一个人所需要的时间——正如我在这首奏鸣曲中所要求的那样——穿透任何深度的一部作品，都只是一个缩影，一个象征，人们可能会说，是岁月、世纪的象征，甚至是在此之前必须经过的岁月、世纪的象征。公众可以开始珍惜真正新颖的杰作。 因此，天才的人，为了保护自己免受世人无知的蔑视，可以对自己说，既然一个人的同时代人无法保持必要的超然，那么为后人写的作品就应该只由后人来阅读，就像一个人所欣赏的某些图画一样。当一个人离他们太近时，就无法欣赏。但事实上，任何这种为避免错误判断而采取的怯懦的预防措施都注定会失败。它们是不可避免的。一件天才的作品之所以不容易被人欣赏，是因为创造它的人是非凡的，很少有人能与他相媲美。正是贝多芬的四重奏本身（第十二、十三、十四和十五）花费了半个世纪的时间来形成、塑造和扩大贝多芬四重奏的受众，以这种方式，像每一件伟大的艺术作品一样，标志着即使不是艺术上的进步，也标志着贝多芬四重奏的进步。至少在知识界，优点在今天主要由作品首次出现时所没有的东西组成，也就是说，由有能力欣赏它的人组成。艺术家所谓的后代，就是艺术作品的后代。至关重要的是，这项工作（为了简洁起见，不考虑这样的偶然情况，即几个天才可能同时沿着并行的路线工作，以在未来创造一个更有教养的公众，一个可以让其他天才人士从中受益的公众）。天才将受益）将创造自己的后代。因为如果这部作品被保留下来，只向后人展示，那么这部特定作品的观众将不是后人，而是一群仅仅生活在半个世纪后的同时代人。 因此，如果艺术家希望他的作品能够自由地遵循自己的路线，那么艺术家（这就是万特伊所做的）就必须在任何他能找到足够深度的地方展开它，自信地向外走向未来。然而，这段时间，即观看一件艺术品的真正视角，如果不考虑它是坏评判者所犯的错误，那么考虑它有时是对好人的危险预防措施。毫无疑问，人们可以很容易地想象，通过一种类似于使地平线上的一切看起来等距的幻觉，迄今为止在绘画或音乐中发生的所有革命至少表现出对某些规则的尊重，而我们立即面临的规则无论是印象主义、追求不和谐、独占中国尺度、立体主义、未来主义或其他任何你所想的艺术，都与之前发生的一切大相径庭。仅仅因为那些发生在我们之前的事情我们很容易将其视为一个整体，而忘记了漫长的同化过程已将它们融化成一个连续的物质，当然各不相同，但将其视为一个整体，是同质的，雨果与莫里哀在其中融合在一起。让我们试着想象一下，如果我们不考虑未来，以及它必然带来的变化，在我们年轻时绘制和呈现的我们成熟时期的星象中，我们会发现令人震惊的不连贯性。 只有占星术并不总是准确的，在评判一件艺术作品时，必须将时间因素纳入其美感的总和中，这给我们的思维方式带来了一些危险的东西，因此毫无兴趣，就像每一个未实现的预言都绝不意味着先知有任何不足，因为召唤可能性存在或将其排除在外的能力不一定属于天才的能力范围。一个人可能有天才，但不相信铁路或飞行的未来，或者，尽管他是一位出色的心理学家，但不相信情妇或朋友的不忠，而他们的背叛行为，远没有那么有天赋的人会预见到。

If I did not understand the sonata, it enchanted me to hear Mme. Swann play. Her touch appeared to me (like her wrappers, like the scent of her staircase, her cloaks, her chrysanthemums) to form part of an individual and mysterious whole, in a world infinitely superior to that in which the mind is capable of analysing talent. ‘Attractive, isn’t it, that Vinteuil sonata?’ Swann asked me. ‘The moment when night is darkening among the trees, when the arpeggios of the violin call down a cooling dew upon the earth. You must admit that it is rather charming; it shews all the static side of moonlight, which is the essential part. It is not surprising that a course of radiant heat such as my wife is taking, should act on the muscles, since moonlight can prevent the leaves from stirring. That is what he expresses so well in that little phrase, the Bois de Boulogne plunged in a cataleptic trance. By the sea it is even more striking, because you have there the faint response of the waves, which, of course, you can hear quite distinctly, since nothing else dares to move. In Paris it is the other way; at the most, you may notice unfamiliar lights among the old buildings, the sky brightened as though by a colourless and harmless conflagration, that sort of vast variety show of which you get a hint here and there. But in Vinteuil’s little phrase, and in the whole sonata for that matter, it is not like that; the scene is laid in the Bois; in the gruppetto you can distinctly hear a voice saying: ‘I can almost see to read the paper!’’ These words from Swann might have falsified, later on, my impression of the sonata, music being too little exclusive to inhibit absolutely what other people suggest that we should find in it. But I understood from other words which he let fall that this nocturnal foliage was simply that beneath whose shade in many a restaurant on the outskirts of Paris he had listened on many an evening to the little phrase. In place of the profound significance that he had so often sought in it, what it recalled now to Swann were the leafy boughs, arranged, wreathed, painted round about it (which it gave him the desire to see again because it seemed to him to be their inner, their hidden self, as it were their soul); was the whole of one spring season which he had not been able to enjoy before, not having had—feverish and moody as he then was—enough strength of body and mind for its enjoyment, which, as one puts by for an invalid the dainties that he has not been able to eat, it had kept in store for him. The charm that he had been made to feel by certain evenings in the Bois, a charm of which Vinteuil’s sonata served to remind him, he could not have recaptured by questioning Odette, although she, as well as the little phrase, had been his companion there. But Odette had been merely his companion, by his side, not (as the phrase had been) within him, and so had seen nothing—nor would she, had she been a thousand times as comprehending, have seen anything of that vision which for no one among us (or at least I was long under the impression that this rule admitted no exception) can be made externally visible. ‘It is rather charming, don’t you think,’ Swann continued, ‘that sound can give a reflection, like water, or glass. It is curious, too, that Vinteuil’s phrase now shews me only the things to which I paid no attention then. Of my troubles, my loves of those days it recalls nothing, it has altered all my values.’ ‘Charles, I don’t think that’s very polite to me, what you’re saying.’ ‘Not polite? Really, you women are superb! I was simply trying to explain to this young man that what the music shews—to me, at least—is not for a moment ‘Free-will’ or ‘In Tune with the Infinite,’ but shall we say old Verdurin in his frock coat in the palm-house at the Jardin d’Acclimatation. Hundreds of times, without my leaving this room, the little phrase has carried me off to dine with it at Armenonville. Gad, it is less boring, anyhow, than having to go there with Mme. de Cambremer.’ Mme. Swann laughed. ‘That is a lady who is supposed to have been violently in love with Charles,’ she explained, in the same tone in which, shortly before, when we were speaking of Vermeer of Delft, of whose existence I had been surprised to find her conscious, she had answered me with: ‘I ought to explain that M. Swann was very much taken up with that painter at the time he was courting me. Isn’t that so, Charles dear?’ ‘You’re not to start saying things about Mme. de Cambremer!’ Swann checked her, secretly flattered. ‘But I’m only repeating what I’ve been told. Besides, it seems that she’s an extremely clever woman; I don’t know her myself. I believe she’s very pushing, which surprises me rather in a clever woman. But everyone says that she was quite mad about you; there’s no harm in repeating that.’ Swann remained silent as a deaf-mute which was in a way a confirmation of what she had said, and a proof of his own fatuity. ‘Since what I’m playing reminds you of the Jardin d’Acclimatation,’ his wife went on, with a playful semblance of being offended, ‘we might take him there some day in the carriage, if it would amuse him. It’s lovely there just now, and you can recapture your fond impressions! Which reminds me, talking of the Jardin d’Acclimatation, do you know, this young man thought that we were devotedly attached to a person whom I cut, as a matter of fact, whenever I possibly can, Mme. Blatin! I think it is rather crushing for us, that she should be taken for a friend of ours. Just fancy, dear Dr. Cottard, who never says a harsh word about anyone, declares that she’s positively contagious.’ ‘A frightful woman! The one thing to be said for her is that she is exactly like Savonarola. She is the very image of that portrait of Savonarola, by Fra Bartolomeo.’ This mania which Swann had for finding likenesses to people in pictures was defensible, for even what we call individual expression is—as we so painfully discover when we are in love and would fain believe in the unique reality of the beloved—something diffused and general, which can be found existing at different periods. But if one had listened to Swann, the processions of the Kings of the East, already so anachronistic when Benozzo Gozzoli introduced in their midst various Medici, would have been even more so, since they would have included the portraits of a whole crowd of men, contemporaries not of Gozzoli but of Swann, subsequent, that is to say not only by fifteen centuries to the Nativity but by four more to the painter himself. There was not missing from those trains, according to Swann, a single living Parisian of any note, any more than there was from that act in one of Sardou’s plays, in which, out of friendship for the author and for the leading lady, and also because it was the fashion, all the best known men in Paris, famous doctors, politicians, barristers, amused themselves, each on a different evening, by ‘walking on.’ ‘But what has she got to do with the Jardin d’Acclimatation?’ ‘Everything!’ ‘What? You don’t suggest that she’s got a sky-blue behind, like the monkeys?’ ‘Charles, you really are too dreadful! I was thinking of what the Cingalese said to her. Do tell him, Charles; it really is a gem.’ ‘Oh, it’s too silly. You know, Mme. Blatin loves asking people questions, in a tone which she thinks friendly, but which is really overpowering.’ ‘What our good friends on the Thames call ‘patronising,’’ interrupted Odette. ‘Exactly. Well, she went the other day to the Jardin d’Acclimatation, where they have some blackamoors—Cingalese, I think I heard my wife say; she is much ‘better up’ in ethnology than I am.’ ‘Now, Charles, you’re not to make fun of poor me.’
如果我听不懂奏鸣曲，那么听到夫人的演奏让我着迷。斯旺演奏。在我看来，她的触摸（就像她的包装纸，就像她楼梯上的气味、她的斗篷、她的菊花）构成了一个个体而神秘的整体的一部分，在一个比心灵能够分析天赋的世界无限优越的世界中。 “那首凡特伊奏鸣曲很有吸引力，不是吗？”斯旺问我。 “当夜色在树林间变暗的那一刻，当小提琴的琶音召唤着大地凉爽的露珠时。你必须承认它是相当迷人的；它展现了月光所有静态的一面，这是最本质的部分。像我妻子这样的辐射热疗程对肌肉产生作用并不奇怪，因为月光可以防止树叶搅拌。这就是他在布洛涅森林陷入昏厥恍惚的那句话中表达得如此出色的原因。在海边，情况更加引人注目，因为那里有海浪的微弱反应，当然，你可以清楚地听到，因为没有其他东西敢移动。在巴黎则相反。顶多你会注意到古老建筑中的陌生灯光，天空仿佛被一场无色无害的大火照亮，那种浩大的综艺表演随处可见。但在凡特伊的小乐句中，以及在整个奏鸣曲中，情况并非如此。场景发生在森林里；在gruppetto中，你可以清楚地听到一个声音说：“我几乎可以看清报纸了！”斯旺的这些话后来可能会歪曲我对奏鸣曲的印象，音乐太不排他性，无法绝对抑制其他什么人们建议我们应该在里面找到。 但我从他说出的其他话语中了解到，这片夜行树叶只不过是他在巴黎郊区的许多餐馆里在其树荫下听过的许多个晚上的那句小短语。斯万现在所想起的，不再是他经常在其中寻找的深刻意义，而是周围排列着、缠绕着、画着的绿叶树枝（这让他渴望再次看到它们，因为在他看来，它们成为他们内在的、隐藏的自我，就像他们的灵魂一样）；整整一个春天的季节，他以前都无法享受，因为当时他发烧又喜怒无常，身体和精神都没有足够的力量来享受它，就像一个病人把美味佳肴放在一边一样。他一直没能吃东西，它已经为他准备好了。他在布瓦的某些夜晚所感受到的魅力，万特伊的奏鸣曲提醒他的魅力，他无法通过询问奥黛特来重新获得，尽管她和那句小短语都是他的伴侣。那里。但奥黛特只是他的同伴，在他身边，而不是（正如这句话所指的那样）在他内心，所以她什么也没有看到——即使她有一千倍的理解力，她也不会看到那个幻象的任何东西。我们当中没有人（或者至少我长期以来一直认为这条规则不允许例外）可以被公开。 “这很迷人，你不觉得吗？”斯旺继续说道，“声音可以产生反射，就像水或玻璃一样。同样奇怪的是，万特伊的这句话现在只向我展示了我当时没有注意到的事情。我的烦恼、我那些日子的爱情都已不记得了，它改变了我所有的价值观。” “查尔斯，我认为你所说的话对我来说不太礼貌。” “不礼貌？真的，你们女人真是太棒了！我只是想向这个年轻人解释，音乐所展现的——至少对我来说——暂时不是“自由意志”或“与无限合拍”，而是我们应该说是穿着连衣裙的老维尔迪兰吗？在驯化花园的棕榈屋里穿外套。数百次，我没有离开这个房间，这句话就带我去阿默农维尔和它一起吃饭。哎呀，无论如何，这比和夫人一起去那里没那么无聊。德·康布尔梅尔女士。斯旺笑了。 “那是一位据说深深地爱着查尔斯的女士，”她解释道，语气与不久前我们谈论代尔夫特的维米尔时的语气相同，我惊讶地发现她的存在她意识清醒地回答我：“我应该解释一下，当斯万先生向我求爱时，他对那位画家非常着迷。”不是这样吗，亲爱的查尔斯？”德·康布勒梅！”斯旺打量着她，心里暗自受宠若惊。 “但我只是重复别人告诉我的话。而且，看起来她还是一个非常聪明的女人，我自己也不认识她。我相信她很有进取心，这让我对一个聪明的女人感到惊讶。但每个人都说她很生你的气；斯万像聋哑人一样保持沉默，这在某种程度上证实了她所说的话，也证明了他自己的愚蠢。 “因为我正在演奏的东西让你想起了驯化园，”他的妻子继续说道，脸上带着一种被冒犯的顽皮的表情，“如果他觉得有趣的话，我们也许有一天会乘马车带他去那里。”刚才那里很可爱，你可以重拾你的美好印象！ 这让我想起，谈到驯化花园，你知道吗，这个年轻人认为我们忠诚地依恋着一个被我割伤的人，事实上，只要我有可能，夫人。布拉廷！我认为她被当作我们的朋友，这对我们来说是相当令人沮丧的。只是想象一下，亲爱的科塔德医生，她从来没有对任何人说过严厉的话，却宣称她具有传染性。” “一个可怕的女人！值得一提的是，她和萨沃纳罗拉一模一样。她就是弗拉·巴托洛梅奥 (Fra Bartolomeo) 所画的萨沃纳罗拉 (Savonarola) 肖像的形象。”斯万对寻找与照片中的人物相似的狂热是有道理的，因为即使我们所说的个人表达也是如此——正如我们在恋爱时痛苦地发现的那样并且愿意相信所爱之人的独特现实——某种分散的、普遍的东西，可以发现它存在于不同的时期。但如果有人听了斯万的话，当贝诺佐·戈佐利在他们中间引入各种美第奇时，东方国王的游行就已经非常不合时宜了，因为他们会包括一大群男人的肖像，不是戈佐利的同时代人，而是斯旺的同时代人，也就是说，不仅比耶稣诞生还要早十五个世纪，而且比画家本人还要晚四个世纪。据斯万（一位在世的巴黎人）说，那些火车上并没有失踪，就像萨杜的一部戏剧中的那一幕一样，在这部戏剧中，出于对作者和女主角的友谊，也因为这是一种时尚，巴黎所有最知名的男人、著名医生、政治家、大律师，都在不同的晚上以“继续走”来取乐。“但是她和花园有什么关系呢？”适应环境？” “一切！” “什么？ “查尔斯，你真的太可怕了！”我在想辛加拉人对她说的话。一定要告诉他，查尔斯； “哦，这太傻了。它真的是一颗宝石。”你知道，女士。布拉廷喜欢问别人问题，语气她认为很友善，但实际上却让人难以承受。“我们泰晤士河畔的好朋友称之为‘居高临下’，”奥黛特打断道。 '确切地。嗯，前几天她去了Jardin d’Acclimatation，那里有一些blackamoors——Cingalese，我想我听到我妻子说； “查尔斯，你不许取笑可怜的我。”’

‘I’ve no intention of making fun, I assure you. Well, to continue, she went up to one of these black fellows with ‘Good morning, nigger!’...’ ‘Oh, it’s too absurd!’ ‘Anyhow, this classification seems to have displeased the black. ‘Me nigger,’ he shouted (quite furious, don’t you know), to Mme. Blatin, ‘me nigger; you, old cow!’’ ‘I do think that’s so delightful! I adore that story. Do say it’s a good one. Can’t you see old Blatin standing there, and hearing him: ‘Me nigger; you, old cow’?’ I expressed an intense desire to go there and see these Cingalese, one of whom had called Mme. Blatin an old cow. They did not interest me in the least. But I reflected that in going to the Jardin d’Acclimatation, and again on our way home, we should pass along that Allée des Acacias in which I had loved so, once, to gaze on Mme. Swann, and that perhaps Coquelin’s mulatto friend, to whom I had never managed to exhibit myself in the act of saluting her, would see me there, seated at her side, as the victoria swept by.
“我向你保证，我无意取笑。好吧，继续说下去，她走到其中一个黑人面前，说道：“早上好，黑鬼！”……“哦，这太荒谬了！”“无论如何，这种分类似乎让黑人很不高兴。 “我这个黑鬼，”他对着夫人喊道（非常愤怒，你不知道吗）。布拉廷，‘我黑鬼；你，老牛！” “我确实觉得那太令人愉快了！我喜欢那个故事。一定要说这是一件好事。你难道没看到老布拉廷站在那里，听着他说：“我黑鬼；我是黑鬼吗？”你，老牛？”我表达了强烈的愿望，想去那里看看这些辛加拉人，其中一个人称呼我为夫人。布拉廷是一头老牛。他们对我一点也不感兴趣。但我想到，在去驯化园和回家的路上，我们应该经过我曾经如此喜爱的金合欢大道，凝视夫人。当维多利亚号驶过时，斯旺，也许还有科克林的混血儿朋友，我从未向她展示过自己的敬意，他们会看到我坐在她身边。

During those minutes in which Gilberte, having gone to ‘get ready,’ was not in the room with us, M. and Mme. Swann would take delight in revealing to me all the rare virtues of their child. And everything that I myself observed seemed to prove the truth of what they said. I remarked that, as her mother had told me, she had not only for her friends but for the servants, for the poor, the most delicate attentions carefully thought out, a desire to give pleasure, a fear of causing annoyance, translated into all sorts of trifling actions which must often have meant great inconvenience to her. She had done some ‘work’ for our stall-keeper in the Champs-Elysées, and went out in the snow to give it to her with her own hands, so as not to lose a day. ‘You have no idea how kind-hearted she is, she won’t let it be seen,’ her father assured me. Young as she was, she appeared far more sensible already than her parents. When Swann boasted of his wife’s grand friends Gilberte would turn away, and remain silent, but without any air of reproaching him, for it seemed inconceivable to her that her father could be subjected to the slightest criticism. One day, when I had spoken to her of Mlle. Vinteuil, she said to me:
在吉尔贝特去“准备”的那几分钟里，他没有和我们先生和夫人一起在房间里。斯旺会很高兴向我展示他们孩子的所有罕见的美德。我自己观察到的一切似乎都证明了他们所说的真理。我说，正如她母亲告诉我的那样，她不仅对她的朋友，而且对仆人，对穷人，都经过深思熟虑，给予最细致的关注，渴望给予快乐，害怕引起烦恼，这一切都转化为一切。诸如此类的琐碎行为，往往会给她带来很大的不便。她在香榭丽舍大街上为我们的摊主做了一些“工作”，冒着雪亲自出去给她，以免耽误一天。 “你不知道她有多善良，她不会让别人看到，”她父亲向我保证。虽然她年纪还小，但看上去却比她的父母懂事得多。当斯旺夸耀他妻子的好朋友时，希尔贝特会转过身去，保持沉默，但没有任何责备他的神情，因为她认为她的父亲会受到最轻微的批评，这似乎是不可想象的。有一天，当我跟她谈到Mlle时。 Vinteuil，她对我说：

‘I shall never know her, for a very good reason, and that is that she was not nice to her father, by what one hears, she gave him a lot of trouble. You can’t understand that any more than I, can you; I’m sure you could no more live without your papa than I could, which is quite natural after all. How can one ever forget a person one has loved all one’s life?’
“我永远不会认识她，有一个很好的理由，那就是她对她父亲不好，据人们所知，她给他带来了很多麻烦。你和我一样无法理解这一点，不是吗？我确信你和我一样没有爸爸就无法生活，这毕竟是很自然的。一个人怎么能忘记一个一生所爱的人呢？

And once when she was making herself particularly endearing to Swann, as I mentioned this to her when he was out of the room:
有一次，当她表现得对斯万特别讨人喜欢时，当他离开房间时我向她提到了这一点：

‘Yes, poor Papa, it is the anniversary of his father’s death, just now. You can understand what he must be feeling; you do understand, don’t you; you and I feel the same about things like that. So I just try to be a little less naughty than usual.’ ‘But he doesn’t ever think you naughty. He thinks you’re quite perfect.’ ‘Poor Papa, that’s because he’s far too good himself.’
“是的，可怜的爸爸，现在是他父亲的忌日。你能理解他的感受；你确实明白，不是吗？你和我对类似的事情有同样的感觉。所以我只是尽量比平时少一点调皮。” “但他从来不认为你调皮。 “可怜的爸爸，那是因为他自己太优秀了。”

But her parents were not content with singing the praises of Gilberte—that same Gilberte, who, even, before I had set eyes on her, used to appear to me standing before a church, in a landscape of the He de France, and later, awakening in me not dreams now but memories, was embowered always in a hedge of pink hawthorn, in the little lane that I took when I was going the Méséglise way. Once when I had asked Mme. Swann (and had made an effort to assume the indifferent tone of a friend of the family, curious to know the preferences of a child), which among all her playmates Gilberte liked the best, Mme. Swann replied: ‘But you ought to know a great deal better than I do. You are in her confidence, her great favourite, her ‘chum,’ as the English say.’
但她的父母并不满足于歌颂希尔贝特——就是那个希尔贝特，甚至在我见到她之前，她就经常出现在我面前，站在一座教堂前，在法兰西的风景中，后来现在，在我心中苏醒的不是梦，而是回忆，它总是被粉红色的山楂树篱所包围，在我去梅塞格利斯的路上时所走的小巷里。有一次我问过夫人。斯万（并努力表现出家庭朋友的冷漠语气，好奇地想知道孩子的喜好），希尔贝特女士在她所有的玩伴中最喜欢这种语气。斯旺回答道：“但你应该比我了解得多。”正如英国人所说，你是她的秘密，她的最爱，她的“密友”。

It appears that in a coincidence as perfect as this was, when reality is folded over to cover the ideal of which we have so long been dreaming, it completely hides that ideal, absorbing it in itself, as when two geometrical figures that are congruent are made to coincide, so that there is but one, whereas we would rather, so as to give its full significance to our enjoyment, preserve for all those separate points of our desire, at the very moment in which we succeed in touching them, and so as to be quite certain that they are indeed themselves, the distinction of being intangible. And our thought cannot even reconstruct the old state so as to confront the new with it, for it has no longer a clear field: the acquaintance that we have made, the memory of those first, unhoped-for moments, the talk to which we have listened are there now to block the passage of our consciousness, and as they control the outlets of our memory far more than those of our imagination, they react more forcibly upon our past, which we are no longer able to visualise without taking them into account, than upon the form, still unshaped, of our future. I had been able to believe, year after year, that the right to visit Mme. Swann was a vague and fantastic privilege to which I should never attain; after I had spent a quarter of an hour in her drawing-room, it was the period in which I did not yet know her that was become fantastic and vague like a possibility which the realisation of an alternative possibility has made impossible. How was I ever to dream again of her dining-room as of an inconceivable place, when I could not make the least movement in my mind without crossing the path of that inextinguishable ray cast backwards to infinity, even in*o my own most distant past, by the lobster à l’Américaine which I had just been eating? And Swann must have observed in his own case a similar phenomenon; for this house in which he entertained me might be regarded as the place into which had flowed, to coincide and be lost in one another, not only the ideal dwelling that my imagination had constructed, but another still, that which his jealous love, as inventive as any fantasy of mine, had so often depicted to him, that dwelling common to Odette and himself which had appeared so inaccessible once, on evenings when Odette had taken him home with Forcheville to drink orangeade with her; and what had flowed in to be absorbed, for him, in the walls and furniture of the dining-room in which we now sat down to luncheon was that unhoped-for paradise in which, in the old days, he could not without a pang imagine that he would one day be saying to their butler those very words, ‘Is Madame ready yet?’ which I now heard him utter with a touch of impatience mingled with self-satisfaction. No more than, probably, Swann himself could I succeed in knowing my own happiness, and when Gilberte once broke out: ‘Who would ever have said that the little girl you watched playing prisoners’ base, without daring to speak to her, would one day be your greatest friend, and you would go to her house whenever you liked?’ she spoke of a change the occurrence of which I could verify only by observing it from without, finding no trace of it within myself, for it was composed of two separate states on both of which I could not, without their ceasing to be distinct from one another, succeed in keeping my thoughts fixed at one and the same time.
看来，在如此完美的巧合中，当现实被折叠起来以覆盖我们长期以来梦想的理想时，它完全隐藏了那个理想，将其吸收在自身中，就像当两个全等的几何图形被折叠在一起时一样。使之一致，因此只有一个，而我们宁愿在我们成功触及它们的那一刻，为我们的欲望保留所有这些单独的点，以便赋予其充分的意义给我们的享受，并且以便完全确定它们确实是它们本身，这是无形的区别。我们的思想甚至无法重建旧的状态，以便用它来面对新的状态，因为它不再有一个清晰的领域：我们所结识的人，那些最初的、意想不到的时刻的记忆，我们所谈论的话题。听过之后，它们现在就在那里阻止我们意识的通过，并且由于它们对我们记忆的出口的控制远远超过我们对想象力的控制，它们对我们的过去的反应更加强烈，如果不将它们纳入其中，我们就无法再将其形象化。考虑，而不是考虑我们未来尚未成型的形式。年复一年，我一直相信，探望夫人的权利。斯旺是一种模糊而奇妙的特权，我永远不应该获得。当我在她的客厅待了一刻钟之后，正是在我还不认识她的那段时间里，我变得奇异而模糊，就像一种可能性，而另一种可能性的实现使之变得不可能。 我怎么可能再次梦见她的餐厅，就像梦到一个不可思议的地方一样，当我无法在脑海中做出哪怕是最轻微的移动时，就会穿过那条向后投射到无限远的不灭光线的路径，即使是在我自己最遥远的地方。过去，是我刚刚吃过的龙虾 à l'Américaine 吗？斯万一定在他自己的案例中观察到了类似的现象。因为他招待我的这所房子可以被视为一个地方，它不仅是我想象中建造的理想居所，而且是他嫉妒的爱所建造的另一个地方，彼此重合并迷失在其中。奥黛特和他自己共同的住所，曾经在晚上奥黛特带他和福什维尔一起喝橙水时，显得如此难以接近，就像我经常向他描绘的任何幻想一样富有创意；对他来说，我们现在坐下来吃午饭的餐厅的墙壁和家具中流入的东西是他意想不到的天堂，在过去的日子里，他不能不感到痛苦想象一下，有一天他会对他们的管家说这样的话：“夫人准备好了吗？”我现在听到他说这句话时，带着一丝不耐烦和自我满足。也许，就像斯旺本人一样，我无法成功地了解自己的幸福，当希尔贝特有一次爆发时：“谁会说你看着那个在囚犯基地玩耍的小女孩，却不敢和她说话，有一天成为你最好的朋友，你会随时去她家吗？她谈到了一种变化的发生，我只能通过从外部观察它来验证它的发生，在我体内找不到它的踪迹，因为它是由两种独立的状态组成的，我无法同时观察这两种状态，除非它们不再是不同的。彼此之间的交流，成功地使我的思想同时固定下来。

And yet this house, because it had been so passionately desired by Swann, must have kept for him some of its attraction, if I was to judge by myself for whom it had not lost all its mystery. That singular charm in which I had for so long supposed the life of the Swanns to be bathed I had not completely exorcised from their house on making my own way into it; I had made it, that charm, recoil, overpowered as it must be by the sight of the stranger, the pariah that I had been, to whom now Mme. Swann pushed forward graciously for him to sit in it an armchair exquisite, hostile, scandalised; but all round me that charm, in my memory, I can still distinguish. Is it because, on those days on which M. and Mme. Swann invited me to luncheon, to go out afterwards with them and Gilberte, I imprinted with my gaze,—while I sat waiting for them there alone—on the carpet, the sofas, the tables, the screens, the pictures, the idea engraved upon my mind that Mme. Swann, or her husband, or Gilberte was about to enter the room? Is it because those objects have dwelt ever since in my memory side by side with the Swanns, and have gradually acquired something of their personal character? Is it because, knowing that the Swanns passed their existence among all those things, I made of all of them as it were emblems of the private lives, of those habits of the Swanns from which I had too long been excluded for them not to continue to appear strange to me, even when I was allowed the privilege of sharing in them? However it may be, always when I think of that drawing-room which Swann (not that the criticism implied on his part any intention to find fault with his wife’s taste) found so incongruous—because, while it was still planned and carried out in the style, half conservatory, half studio, which had been that of the rooms in which he had first known Odette, she had, none the less, begun to replace in its medley a quantity of the Chinese ornaments, which she now felt to be rather gimcrack, a trifle dowdy, by a swarm of little chairs and stools and things upholstered in old Louis XIV silks; not to mention the works of art brought by Swann himself from his house on the Quai d’Orléans—it has kept in my memory, on the contrary, that composite, heterogeneous room, a cohesion, a unity, an individual charm never possessed even by the most complete, the least spoiled of such collections that the past has bequeathed to us, or the most modern, alive and stamped with the imprint of a living personality; for we alone can, by our belief that they have an existence of their own, give to certain of the things that we see a soul which they afterwards keep, which they develop in our minds. All the ideas that I had formed of the hours, different from those that exist for other men, passed by the Swanns in that house which was to their life what the body is to the soul, and must give expression to its singularity, all those ideas were rearranged, amalgamated—equally disturbing and indefinite throughout—in the arrangement of the furniture, the thickness of the carpets, the position of the windows, the ministrations of the servants. When, after luncheon, we went in the sunshine to drink our coffee in the great bay window of the drawing-room, while Mme. Swann was asking me how many lumps of sugar I took, it was not only the silk-covered stool which she pushed towards me that emitted, with the agonising charm that I had long ago felt—first among the pink hawthorn and then beside the clump of laurels—in the name of Gilberte, the hostility that her parents had shewn to me, which this little piece of furniture seemed to have so well understood, to have so completely shared that I felt myself unworthy, and found myself almost reluctant to set my feet on its defenceless cushion; a personality, a soul was latent there which linked it secretly to the light of two o’clock in the afternoon, so different from any other light, in the gulf in which there played about our feet its sparkling tide of gold out of which the bluish crags of sofas and vaporous carpet beaches emerged like enchanted islands; and there was nothing, even to the painting by Rubens hung above the chimney-piece, that was not endowed with the same quality and almost the same intensity of charm as the laced boots of M. Swann, and that hooded cape, the like of which I had so dearly longed to wear, whereas now Odette would beg her husband to go and put on another, so as to appear more smart, whenever I did them the honour of driving out with them. She too went away to change her dress—not heeding my protestations that no ‘outdoor’ clothes could be nearly so becoming as the marvellous garment of crêpe-de-Chine or silk, old rose, cherry-coloured, Tiepolo pink, white, mauve, green, red or yellow, plain or patterned, in which Mme. Swann had sat down to luncheon and which she was now going to take off. When I assured her that she ought to go out in that costume, she laughed, either in scorn of my ignorance or from delight in my compliment. She apologised for having so many wrappers, explaining that they were the only kind of dress in which she felt comfortable, and left us, to go and array herself in one of those regal toilets which imposed their majesty on all beholders, and yet among which I was sometimes summoned to decide which of them I preferred that she should put on.
然而，由于斯万如此热切地想要这座房子，如果我自己判断它对谁来说还没有失去所有的神秘感的话，那么它一定对他保留了一些吸引力。长期以来，我一直认为斯旺一家的生活充满了那种奇异的魅力，但当我自己走进他们的房子时，我并没有完全从他们的房子里驱除。我已经做到了，那种魅力，那种反感，一定会被陌生人的视线所压倒，我曾经是一个贱民，现在对她来说。斯旺大方地向前推了他一把，让他坐在一把精致、充满敌意、充满愤慨的扶手椅上。但在我的记忆中，我仍能辨别出我周围的那种魅力。是因为，在那些日子里，M.和Mme。斯旺邀请我去吃午饭，然后和他们还有希尔贝特一起出去，当我独自坐在那里等待他们时，我用目光印在地毯上、沙发上、桌子上、屏幕上、图片上、刻在这个想法上。在我看来，女士。斯旺，或者她的丈夫，或者吉尔贝特正要走进房间？是不是因为这些东西从那时起就和斯旺夫妇一起存在于我的记忆中，并逐渐具有了它们的个人特征？是不是因为，我知道斯旺一家在所有这些事物中存在过，所以我把它们当作私人生活的象征，是斯旺一家的习惯的象征，而我长期以来被排除在外，无法让他们继续下去即使我有幸分享它们，我也会觉得很奇怪吗？ 不管怎样，每当我想到斯旺（并不是说他的批评暗示他有意挑剔他妻子的品味）的那间客厅时，总是觉得它很不协调——因为，尽管它仍在计划和实施中，半温室、半工作室的风格，就是他第一次认识奥黛特的房间的风格，尽管如此，她已经开始在混合风格中更换一些中国装饰品，她现在觉得这些装饰品是一大群小椅子、小凳子和用旧路易十四丝绸装饰的东西，相当花哨，有点邋遢。更不用说斯旺本人从奥尔良码头的家中带来的艺术作品了——相反，它在我的记忆中保留了那个复合的、异质的房间，一种凝聚力、一种统一、一种个人魅力，甚至从未拥有过。过去留给我们的藏品中最完整、最不受损坏的藏品，或者是最现代的、充满活力的、带有鲜活个性印记的藏品；因为只有我们相信它们有自己的存在，才能赋予我们看到的某些事物一个灵魂，然后它们保留并在我们的头脑中发展它。我对时间形成的所有想法，与其他人存在的想法不同，在那所房子里经过斯旺一家，这对他们的生活来说就像身体对灵魂一样，并且必须表达其独特性，所有这些家具的布置、地毯的厚度、窗户的位置、仆人的服务等方面的想法被重新排列、融合——同样令人不安和不确定。午餐后，我们在阳光下到客厅的大凸窗喝咖啡，而夫人。 斯旺问我吃了多少块糖，不仅是她推向我的那张丝质凳子散发出我早已感受到的痛苦魅力——先是在粉红色的山楂中，然后是在那一丛糖旁边。桂冠——以希尔贝特的名义，她父母对我表现出的敌意，这件小家具似乎非常理解，完全分享了，我觉得自己不配，发现自己几乎不愿意设置我的脚踩在毫无防备的垫子上；那里潜藏着一种个性、一个灵魂，它与下午两点钟的光秘密地联系在一起，与任何其他光都截然不同，在我们脚边的海湾里，闪闪发光的金色浪潮从其中流淌出来。蓝色的沙发峭壁和雾气腾腾的地毯海滩像施了魔法的岛屿一样浮现出来。就连挂在烟囱上方的鲁本斯的画，也没有什么不被赋予与斯旺先生的系带靴子相同的品质和几乎相同的魅力强度，以及那件连帽斗篷，就像我非常渴望穿上它，而现在，每当我有幸和他们一起开车出去时，奥黛特都会恳求她的丈夫去穿上另一件，以便显得更聪明。她也去换衣服了——没有理睬我的抗议，没有什么“户外”衣服能比这件奇妙的双绉或丝绸、旧玫瑰色、樱桃色、提埃波罗粉色、白色、紫红色的衣服更合适。 ，绿色，红色或黄色，素色或图案，其中女士。斯旺已经坐下来吃午饭了，现在她要起飞了。当我向她保证她应该穿着那件衣服出去时，她笑了，要么是嘲笑我的无知，要​​么是因为我的赞美而高兴。 她为有这么多包装纸而道歉，解释说这是唯一一种让她感到舒服的衣服，然后离开了我们，去那些富丽堂皇的厕所之一里装扮自己，这些厕所给所有旁观者带来了威严，但在其中有时我会被叫去决定我更喜欢她穿哪一件。

In the Jardin d’Acclimatation, how proud I was when we had left the carriage to be walking by the side of Mme. Swann! While she strolled carelessly on, letting her cloak stream on the air behind her, I kept eyeing her with an admiring gaze to which she coquettishly responded in a lingering smile. And now, were we to meet one or other of Gilberte’s friends, boy or girl, who saluted us from afar, I would in my turn be looked upon by them as one of those happy creatures whose lot I had envied, one of those friends of Gilberte who knew her family and had a share in that other part of her life, the part which was not spent in the Champs-Elysées.
在驯化花园里，当我们离开马车，走在夫人身边时，我是多么自豪。斯旺！当她漫不经心地走着，让斗篷在身后的空气中飘扬时，我一直用欣赏的目光看着她，而她则以迷人的微笑回应。现在，如果我们遇到希尔贝特的一位或另一位朋友，无论是男孩还是女孩，他们从远处向我们致意，我也会被他们视为幸福的生物之一，他们的命运是我羡慕的，那些朋友之一吉尔贝特了解她的家人，并参与了她生命的另一部分，即不在香榭丽舍大街度过的部分。

Often upon the paths of the Bois or the Jardin we passed, we were greeted by some great lady who was Swann’s friend, whom he perchance did not see, so that his wife must rally him with a ‘Charles! Don’t you see Mme. de Montmorency?’ And Swann, with that amicable smile, bred of a long and intimate friendship, bared his head, but with a slow sweeping gesture, with a grace peculiarly his own. Sometimes the lady would stop, glad of an opportunity to shew Mme. Swann a courtesy which would involve no tiresome consequences, by which they all knew that she would never seek to profit, so thoroughly had Swann trained her in reserve. She had none the less acquired all the manners of polite society, and however smart, however stately the lady might be, Mme. Swann was invariably a match for her; halting for a moment before the friend whom her husband had recognised and was addressing, she would introduce us, Gilberte and myself, with so much ease of manner, would remain so free, so tranquil in her exercise of courtesy, that it would have been hard to say, looking at them both, which of the two was the aristocrat. The day on which we went to inspect the Cingalese, on our way home we saw coming in our direction, and followed by two others who seemed to be acting as her escort, an elderly but still attractive woman cloaked in a dark mantle and capped with a little bonnet tied beneath her chin with a pair of ribbons. ‘Ah! Here is someone who will interest you!’ said Swann. The old lady, who had come within a few yards of us, now smiled at us with a caressing sweetness. Swann doffed his hat. Mme. Swann swept to the ground in a curtsey and made as if to kiss the hand of the lady, who, standing there like a Winterhalter portrait, drew her up again and kissed her cheek. ‘There, there; will you put your hat on, you!’ she scolded Swann in a thick and almost growling voice, speaking like an old and familiar friend. ‘I am going to present you to Her Imperial Highness,’ Mme. Swann whispered. Swann drew me aside for a moment while his wife talked of the weather and of the animals recently added to the Jardin d’Acclimatation, with the Princess. ‘That is the Princesse Mathilde,’ he told me; ‘you know who’ I mean, the friend of Flaubert, Sainte-Beuve, Dumas. Just fancy, she’s the niece of Napoleon I. She had offers of marriage from Napoleon III and the Emperor of Russia. Isn’t that interesting? Talk to her a little. But I hope she won’t keep us standing here for an hour!... I met Taine the other day,’ he went on, addressing the Princess, ‘and he told me that your Highness was vexed with him.’ ‘He’s behaved like a perfect peeg!’ she said gruffly, pronouncing the word cochon as though she referred to Joan of Arc’s contemporary, Bishop Cauchon. ‘After his article on the Emperor I left my card on him with p. p. c. on it.’ I felt the surprise that one feels on opening the Correspondence of that Duchesse d’Orléans who was by birth a Princess Palatine. And indeed Princesse Mathilde, animated by sentiments so entirely French, expressed them with a straightforward bluntness that recalled the Germany of an older generation, and was inherited, doubtless, from her Wuerttemberg mother. This somewhat rude and almost masculine frankness she softened, as soon as she began to smile, with an Italian languor. And the whole person was clothed in a dress so typically ‘Second Empire’ that—for all that the Princess wore it simply and solely, no doubt, from attachment to the fashions that she had loved when she was young—she seemed to have deliberately planned to avoid the slightest discrepancy in historic colour, and to be satisfying the expectations of those who looked to her to evoke the memory of another age. I whispered to Swann to ask her whether she had known Musset. ‘Very slightly, sir,’ was the answer, given in a tone which seemed to feign annoyance at the question, and of course it was by way of a joke that she called Swann ‘Sir,’ since they were intimate friends. ‘I had him to dine once. I had invited him for seven o’clock. At half-past seven, as he had not appeared, we sat down to dinner. He arrived at eight, bowed to me, took his seat, never opened his lips, went off after dinner without letting me hear the sound of his voice. Of course, he was dead drunk. That hardly encouraged me to make another attempt.’ We were standing a little way off, Swann and I. ‘I hope this little audience is not going to last much longer,’ he muttered, ‘the soles of my feet are hurting. I cannot think why my wife keeps on making conversation. When we get home it will be she that complains of being tired, and she knows I simply cannot go on standing like this.’ For Mme. Swann, who had had the news from Mme. Bontemps, was in the course of telling the Princess that the Government, having at last begun to realise the depth of its depravity, had decided to send her an invitation to be present on the platform in a few days’ time, when the Tsar Nicholas was to visit the Invalides. But the Princess who, in spite of appearances, in spite of the character of her circle, which consisted mainly of artists and literary people, had remained at heart and shewed herself, whenever she had to take action, the niece of Napoleon, replied: ‘Yes, Madame, I received it this morning, and I sent it back to the Minister, who must have had it by now. I told him that I had no need of an invitation to go to the Invalides. If the Government desires my presence there, it will not be on the platform, it will be in our vault, where the Emperor’s tomb is. I have no need of a card to admit me there. I have my keys. I go in and out when I choose. The Government has only to let me know whether it wishes me to be present or not. But if I do go to the Invalides, it will be down below there or nowhere at all.’ At that moment we were saluted, Mme. Swann and I, by a young man who greeted her without stopping, and whom I was not aware that she knew; it was Bloch. I inquired about him, and was told that he had been introduced to her by Mme. Bontemps, and that he was employed in the Minister’s secretariat, which was news to me. Anyhow, she could not have seen him often—or perhaps she had not cared to utter the name, hardly ‘smart’ enough for her liking, of Bloch, for she told me that he was called M. Moreul. I assured her that she was mistaken, that his name was Bloch. The Princess gathered up the train that flowed out behind her, while Mme. Swann gazed at it with admiring eyes. ‘It is only a fur that the Emperor of Russia sent me,’ she explained, ‘and as I have just been to see him I put it on, so as to shew him that I’d managed to have it made up as a mantle.’ ‘I hear that Prince Louis has joined the Russian Army; the Princess will be very sad at losing him,’ went on Mme. Swann, not noticing her husband’s signals of distress. ‘That was a fine thing to do. As I said to him, ‘Just because there’s been a soldier, before, in the family, that’s no reason!’’ replied the Princess, alluding with this abrupt simplicity to Napoleon the Great. But Swann could hold out no longer. ‘Ma’am, it is I that am going to play the Prince, and ask your permission to retire; but, you see, my wife has not been so well, and I do not like her to stand still for any time.’ Mme. Swann curtseyed again, and the Princess conferred upon us all a celestial smile, which she seemed to have summoned out of the past, from among the graces of her girlhood, from the evenings at Compiègne, a smile which glided, sweet and unbroken, over her hitherto so sullen face; then she went on her way, followed by the two ladies in waiting, who had confined themselves, in the manner of interpreters, of children’s or invalids’ nurses, to punctuating our conversation with insignificant sentences and superfluous explanations. ‘You should go and write your name in her book, one day this week,’ Mme. Swann counselled me. ‘One doesn’t leave cards upon these ‘Royalties,’ as the English call them, but she will invite you to her house if you put your name down.’
在我们经过的布瓦或花园小路上，我们经常受到斯万朋友的一位伟大女士的欢迎，但他可能没有看到她，因此他的妻子必须用“查尔斯！”来召集他。你没看到夫人吗？蒙莫朗西先生？”斯万露出了他的头，脸上带着友好的微笑，这是长期亲密友谊所孕育出来的。有时那位女士会停下来，很高兴有机会向夫人展示。斯万的礼貌不会带来令人厌烦的后果，他们都知道她永远不会寻求利益，斯万彻底训练她保持沉默。尽管如此，她还是掌握了上流社会的所有礼仪，无论这位女士多么聪明，多么庄严，夫人。斯旺总是很适合她。在她丈夫认出并正在讲话的朋友面前停了一会儿，她会以如此轻松的方式介绍我们，希尔贝特和我自己，在她的礼貌运用中会保持如此自由，如此平静，以至于看着他们两个，很难说，谁才是贵族。我们去视察辛加勒人的那天，在回家的路上，我们看到有人朝我们的方向走来，后面跟着另外两个人，似乎是她的护卫，一个年长但仍然有吸引力的女人，披着深色斗篷，戴着帽子。一顶小帽子，用两条丝带系在她的下巴下面。 '啊！这是一个你会感兴趣的人！”斯旺说。那位老太太刚刚来到离我们几码远的地方，现在正对我们微笑，带着爱抚般的甜蜜。斯旺脱下了帽子。女士。斯旺跪倒在地，行屈膝礼，仿佛要亲吻这位女士的手，而这位女士像温特哈尔特的肖像一样站在那里，又把她拉起来，亲吻她的脸颊。 ‘那儿，那儿；你能戴上帽子吗？你！”她用浑厚、近乎咆哮的声音斥责斯旺，语气就像一位熟悉的老朋友。 “我要把您介绍给太子殿下，”夫人说。斯旺低声说道。斯旺把我拉到一边一会儿，他的妻子和公主谈论了天气和最近添加到驯化花园的动物。 “那是玛蒂尔德公主，”他告诉我。我指的是“你知道谁”，福楼拜、圣伯夫、大仲马的朋友。只是想象一下，她是拿破仑一世的侄女。拿破仑三世和俄罗斯皇帝向她求婚。这不是很有趣吗？和她聊一会儿。但我希望她不会让我们在这里站一个小时！……前几天我遇见了泰恩，”他对公主继续说道，“他告诉我殿下对他很恼火。”她粗声粗气地说，念出“cochon”这个词，就好像她指的是与圣女贞德同时代的科雄主教。 “在他写完关于皇帝的文章后，我把我的名片留给了他，上面写着 p。 p。 C。我感受到了人们打开奥尔良公爵夫人的信件时所感受到的惊讶，她生来就是帕拉丁公主。事实上，玛蒂尔德公主完全被法国人的情感所激励，她以直率的直率表达了这些情感，让人想起老一代的德国，这无疑是从她的符腾堡母亲那里继承的。当她开始微笑时，这种有点粗鲁、近乎男性气概的坦率就软化了，带着一种意大利式的慵懒。 整个人穿着一件典型的“第二帝国”服装，尽管公主穿着简单而纯粹，无疑是出于对她年轻时喜爱的时尚的依恋，但她似乎是故意的计划避免历史色彩上的丝毫差异，并满足那些希望她唤起另一个时代记忆的人的期望。我低声对斯旺询问她是否认识缪塞。 “非常轻微，先生。”回答的语气似乎是对这个问题假装生气，当然，她称斯万为“先生”是开玩笑，因为他们是亲密的朋友。 “有一次我请他吃饭。我邀请他七点钟去。七点半，由于他还没有出现，我们坐下来吃晚饭。他八点到达，向我鞠躬，坐下来，没有张开嘴唇，晚饭后就走了，没有让我听到他的声音。当然，他已经喝醉了。这几乎没有鼓励我再做一次尝试。”斯旺和我站在稍远的地方。“我希望这群观众不会持续太久，”他嘀咕道，“我的脚底很疼。我不明白为什么我的妻子一直在说话。当我们回到家时，她会抱怨太累了，她知道我根本不能再这样站着了。斯旺从夫人那里得到了这个消息。邦当普斯正在告诉公主，政府终于开始意识到其堕落的严重性，决定向她发出几天后出席讲台的邀请，这时沙皇尼古拉斯是去参观荣军院。 然而，这位拿破仑的侄女，无论外表如何，尽管她的圈子主要由艺术家和文学家组成，她的内心仍然保持着，并在她必须采取行动时表现出自己，拿破仑的侄女回答道： “是的，夫人，我今天早上收到了它，我把它寄回给部长，他现在一定已经收到了。我告诉他我不需要邀请去荣军院。如果政府希望我在那里，我不会在平台上，而是在我们的金库里，那里是皇帝的陵墓。我不需要一张卡就可以进入那里。我有我的钥匙。我选择时进出。政府只需让我知道是否希望我出席即可。但如果我真的去荣军院，那会是在下面，或者根本就没有地方。”在那一刻，我们受到了致敬，夫人。斯旺和我，是一个年轻人不停地向她打招呼，我不知道她认识这个人。是布洛赫。我询问了他的情况，并被告知他是由夫人介绍给她的。邦当普斯，他受雇于部长秘书处，这对我来说是个新闻。无论如何，她不可能经常见到他——或者也许她不愿意说出布洛赫这个名字，这个名字对于她来说不太“聪明”，因为她告诉我他叫莫雷尔先生。我向她保证她弄错了，他的名字叫布洛赫。公主收起了在她身后流出的火车，而夫人。斯旺用钦佩的目光看着它。 “这只是俄罗斯皇帝送给我的一件毛皮，”她解释道，“因为我刚刚去见他，所以我把它穿上了，以便向他表明我已经设法把它编成了一件“我听说路易王子已经加入了俄罗斯军队；公主会因为失去他而感到非常悲伤，”夫人继续说道。 斯旺没有注意到她丈夫的痛苦信号。 ‘这是一件好事。正如我对他说的，“仅仅因为家里曾经有过一名士兵，这没有什么理由！”公主回答道，她用这种唐突的简单方式暗指拿破仑大帝。但斯旺再也坚持不住了。 ‘女士，我将扮演王子，请您允许我退休；但是，你看，我的妻子身体不太好，我不喜欢她一直站着不动。”斯万再次行了屈膝礼，公主向我们大家露出了一个神圣的微笑，她似乎从过去，从她少女时代的优雅中，从贡比涅的夜晚中召唤出来，这个微笑甜蜜而完整地滑过我们的全身。她那张迄今为止一直阴沉的脸；然后她就上路了，后面跟着两位侍候的女士，她们以翻译、儿童或病人护士的方式限制自己，只用无关紧要的句子和多余的解释来打断我们的谈话。 “这周的某一天，你应该去她的书上写下你的名字。”斯旺给了我建议。 “人们不会在英国人所说的‘版税’上留下卡片，但如果你写下名字，她就会邀请你去她家。’

Sometimes in those last days of winter we would go, before proceeding on our expedition, into one of the small picture-shows that were being given at that time, where Swann, as a collector of mark, was greeted with special deference by the dealers in whose galleries they were held. And in that still wintry weather the old longing to set out for the South of France and Venice would be reawakened in me by those rooms in which a springtime, already well advanced, and a blazing sun cast violet shadows upon the roseate Alpilles and gave the intense transparency of emeralds to the Grand Canal. If the weather were inclement, we would go to a concert or a theatre, and afterwards to one of the fashionable tearooms. There, whenever Mme. Swann had anything to say to me which she did not wish the people at the next table, or even the waiters who brought our tea, to understand, she would say it in English, as though that had been a secret language known to our two selves alone. As it happened everyone in the place knew English—I only had not yet learned the language, and was obliged to say so to Mme. Swann in order that she might cease to make, on the people who were drinking tea or were serving us with it, remarks which I guessed to be uncomplimentary without either my understanding or the person referred to losing a single word.
有时，在冬天的最后几天，在继续我们的探险之前，我们会去看当时正在举办的一场小型图片展，在那里，斯万作为马克收藏家，受到了经销商的特别尊重。它们在谁的画廊里举行。在寒冷的天气里，我对前往法国南部和威尼斯的古老渴望会被那些房间重新唤醒，在这些房间里，春天已经提前到来，炽热的阳光在玫瑰色的阿尔皮勒山上投下紫罗兰色的阴影，给我带来了温暖。祖母绿对大运河的强烈透明度。如果天气恶劣，我们会去看一场音乐会或剧院，然后去一间时尚的茶室。在那里，每当女士。斯旺有话要对我说，但她不希望邻桌的人，甚至是给我们送茶的服务员听懂，她会用英语说，就好像那是我们两个人都知道的秘密语言。自己一个人。碰巧这个地方的每个人都懂英语——只是我还没有学会这门语言，所以不得不对夫人说这句话。斯旺，以便她可以停止对正在喝茶或为我们提供茶的人发表评论，我猜这些评论是不恭维的，但我没有理解，也没有那个人提到丢失了一个字。

Once, in the matter of an afternoon at the theatre, Gilberte gave me a great surprise. It was precisely the day of which she had spoken to me some time back, on which fell the anniversary of her grandfather’s death. We were to go, she and I, with her governess, to hear selections from an opera, and Gilberte had dressed with a view to attending this performance, and wore the air of indifference with which she was in the habit of treating whatever we might be going to do, with the comment that it might be anything in the world, no matter what, provided that it amused me and had her parents’ approval. Before luncheon, her mother drew us aside to tell us that her father was vexed at the thought of our going to a theatre on that day. This seemed to me only natural. Gilberte remained impassive, but grew pale with an anger which she was unable to conceal; still she uttered not a word. When M. Swann joined us his wife took him to the other end of the room and said something in his ear. He called Gilberte, and they went together into the next room. We could hear their raised voices. And yet I could not bring myself to believe that Gilberte, so submissive, so loving, so thoughtful, would resist her father’s appeal, on such a day and for so trifling a matter. At length Swann reappeared with her, saying: ‘You heard what I said. Now you may do as you like.’
有一次，在剧院待了一个下午，吉尔贝特给了我一个很大的惊喜。正是她不久前对我说过的那一天，那天是她祖父的忌日。我们要去，她和我，以及她的家庭女教师，去听一场歌剧选段，希尔贝特的着装是为了参加这场演出，并且表现出冷漠的神情，这是她对待我们可能遇到的任何事情的习惯。她说，不管怎样，只要能让我开心并得到她父母的批准，这可能是世界上任何事情。午饭前，她妈妈把我们拉到一边，告诉我们，她爸爸一想到我们那天要去剧院就很恼火。在我看来，这是很自然的。希尔贝特依然面无表情，但她却因无法掩饰的愤怒而脸色苍白。她仍然一言不发。当斯旺先生加入我们时，他的妻子把他带到房间的另一端，在他耳边说了些什么。他打电话给希尔贝特，然后他们一起走进隔壁房间。我们可以听到他们提高的声音。然而，我无法让自己相信，如此顺从、如此慈爱、如此体贴的希尔贝特，会在这样的一天，为了这样一件微不足道的小事，拒绝她父亲的恳求。最后斯旺和她一起出现，说道：“你听到我说的话了。”现在你可以做你想做的事了。

Gilberte’s features remained compressed in a frown throughout luncheon, after which we retired to her room. Then suddenly, without hesitating and as though she had never at any point hesitated over her course of action: ‘Two o’clock!’ she exclaimed. ‘You know the concert begins at half past.’ And she told her governess to make haste.
整个午餐期间，吉尔贝特的表情一直紧皱着，之后我们就回到了她的房间。然后突然，她毫不犹豫地喊道：“两点了！” “你知道音乐会在半点半开始。”她告诉她的家庭教师要抓紧时间。

‘But,’ I reminded her, ‘won’t your father be cross with you?’
“但是，”我提醒她，“你父亲不会生你的气吗？”

‘Not the least little bit!’
“一点也没有！”

‘Surely, he was afraid it would look odd, because of the anniversary.’
“当然，因为是周年纪念日，他担心这看起来很奇怪。”

‘What difference can it make to me what people think? I think it’s perfectly absurd to worry about other people in matters of sentiment. We feel things for ourselves, not for the public. Mademoiselle has very few pleasures; she’s been looking forward to going to this concert. I am not going to deprive her of it just to satisfy public opinion.’
‘人们的想法对我有什么影响？我认为在感情问题上担心别人是完全荒谬的。我们为自己而不是为公众感受事物。小姐的快乐很少。她一直期待着去参加这场音乐会。我不会为了满足公众舆论而剥夺她的权利。

‘But, Gilberte,’ I protested, taking her by the arm, ‘it is not to satisfy public opinion, it is to please your father.’
“但是，希尔贝特，”我抓住她的手臂抗议道，“这不是为了满足公众舆论，而是为了取悦你的父亲。”

‘You are not going to pass remarks upon my conduct, I hope,’ she said sharply, plucking her arm away.
“我希望你不会对我的行为发表评论，”她严厉地说，抽开了手臂。

*****

A favour still more precious than their taking me with them to the Jardin d’Acclimatation, the Swanns did not exclude me even from their friendship with Bergotte, which had been at the root of the attraction that I had found in them when, before I had even seen Gilberte, I reflected that her intimacy with that godlike elder would have made her, for me, the most passionately enthralling of friends, had not the disdain that I was bound to inspire in her forbidden me to hope that she would ever take me, in his company, to visit the towns that he loved. And lo, one day, came an invitation from Mme. Swann to a big luncheon-party. I did not know who else were to be the guests. On my arrival I was disconcerted, as I crossed the hall, by an alarming incident. Mme. Swann seldom missed an opportunity of adopting any of those customs which pass as fashionable for a season, and then, failing to find support, are speedily abandoned (as, for instance, many years before, she had had her ‘private hansom,’ or now had, printed in English upon a card inviting you to luncheon, the words, ‘To meet,’ followed by the name of some more or less important personage). Often enough these usages implied nothing mysterious and required no initiation. Take, for instance, a minute innovation of those days, imported from England; Odette had made her husband have some visiting cards printed on which the name Charles Swann was preceded by ‘Mr.’. After the first visit that I paid her, Mme. Swann had left at my door one of these ‘pasteboards,’ as she called them. No one had ever left a card on me before; I felt at once so much pride, emotion, gratitude that, scraping together all the money I possessed, I ordered a superb basket of camellias and had it sent to Mme. Swann. I implored my father to go and leave a card on her, but first, quickly, to have some printed on which his name should bear the prefix ‘Mr.’. He vouchsafed neither of my prayers; I was in despair for some days, and then asked myself whether he might not after all have been right. But this use of ‘Mr.,’ if it meant nothing, was at least intelligible. Not so with another that was revealed to me on the occasion of this luncheon-party, but revealed without any indication of its purport. At the moment when I was about to step from the hall into the drawing-room the butler handed me a thin, oblong envelope upon which my name was inscribed. In my surprise I thanked him; but I eyed the envelope with misgivings. I no more knew what I was expected to do with it than a foreigner knows what to do with one of those little utensils that they lay by his place at a Chinese banquet. I noticed that it was gummed down; I was afraid of appearing indiscreet, were I to open it then and there; and so I thrust it into my pocket with an air of knowing all about it. Mme. Swann had written to me a few days before, asking me to come to luncheon with ‘just a few people.’ There were, however, sixteen of us, among whom I never suspected for a moment that I was to find Bergotte. Mme. Swann, who had already ‘named’ me, as she called it, to several of her guests, suddenly, after my name, in the same tone that she had used in uttering it (in fact, as though we were merely two of the guests at her party, who ought each to feel equally flattered on meeting the other), pronounced that of the sweet Singer with the snowy locks. The name Bergotte made me jump like the sound of a revolver fired at me point blank, but instinctively, for appearance’s sake, I bowed; there, straight in front of me, as by one of those conjurers whom we see standing whole and unharmed, in their frock coats, in the smoke of a pistol shot out of which a pigeon has just fluttered, my salute was returned by a young common little thick-set peering person, with a red nose curled like a snail-shell and a black tuft on his chin. I was cruelly disappointed, for what had just vanished in the dust of the explosion was not only the feeble old man, of whom no vestige now remained; there was also the beauty of an immense work which I had contrived to enshrine in the frail and hallowed organism that I had constructed, like a temple, expressly for itself, but for which no room was to be found in the squat figure, packed tight with blood-vessels, bones, muscles, sinews, of the little man with the snub nose and black beard who stood before me. All the Bergotte whom I had slowly and delicately elaborated for myself, drop by drop, like a stalactite, out of the transparent beauty of his books, ceased (I could see at once) to be of any use, the moment I was obliged to include in him the snail-shell nose and to utilise the little black beard; just as we must reject as worthless the solution of a problem the terms of which we have not read in full, having failed to observe that the total must amount to a specified figure. The nose and beard were elements similarly ineluctable, and all the more aggravating in that, while forcing me to reconstruct entirely the personage of Bergotte, they seemed further to imply, to produce, to secrete incessantly a certain quality of mind, alert and self-satisfied, which was not in the picture, for such a mind had no connexion whatever with the sort of intelligence that was diffused throughout those books, so intimately familiar to me, which were permeated by a gentle and godlike wisdom. Starting from them, I should never have arrived at that snail-shell nose; but starting from the nose, which did not appear to be in the slightest degree ashamed of itself, but stood out alone there like a grotesque ornament fastened on his face, I must proceed in a diametrically opposite direction from the work of Bergotte, I must arrive, it would seem, at the mentality of a busy and preoccupied engineer, of the sort who when you accost him in the street thinks it correct to say: ‘Thanks, and you?’ before you have actually inquired of them how they are, or else, if you assure them that you have been charmed to make their acquaintance, respond with an abbreviation which they imagine to be effective, intelligent and up-to-date, inasmuch as it avoids any waste of precious time on vain formalities: ‘Same here!’ Names are, no doubt, but whimsical draughtsmen, giving us of people as well as of places sketches so little like the reality that we often experience a kind of stupor when we have before our eyes, in place of the imagined, the visible world (which, for that matter, is not the true world, our senses being little more endowed than our imagination with the art of portraiture, so little, indeed, that the final and approximately lifelike pictures which we manage to obtain of reality are at least as different from the visible world as that was from the imagined). But in Bergotte’s case, my preconceived idea of him from his name troubled me far less than my familiarity with his work, to which I was obliged to attach, as to the cord of a balloon, the man with the little beard, without knowing whether it would still have the strength to raise him from the ground. It seemed quite clear, however, that it really was he who had written the books that I had so greatly enjoyed, for Mme. Swann having thought it incumbent upon her to tell him of my admiration for one of these, he shewed no surprise that she should have mentioned this to him rather than to any other of the party, nor did he seem to regard her action as due to a misapprehension, but, swelling out the frock coat which he had put on in honour of all these distinguished guests with a body distended in anticipation of the coming meal, while his mind was completely occupied by other, more real and more important considerations, it was only as at some finished episode in his early life, as though one had made an illusion to a costume of the Duc de Guise which he had worn, one season, at a fancy dress ball, that he smiled as he bore his mind back to the idea of his books; which at once began to fall in my estimation (dragging down with them the whole value of Beauty, of the world, of life itself), until they seemed to have been merely the casual amusement of a man with a little beard. I told myself that he must have taken great pains over them, but that, if he had lived upon an island surrounded by beds of pearl-oysters, he would instead have devoted himself to, and would have made a fortune out of, the pearling trade. His work no longer appeared to me so inevitable. And then I asked myself whether originality did indeed prove that great writers were gods, ruling each one over a kingdom that was his alone, or whether all that was not rather make-believe, whether the differences between one man’s book and another’s were not the result of their respective labours rather than the expression of a radical and essential difference between two contrasted personalities.
斯旺一家人甚至没有将我排除在他们与贝戈特的友谊之外，这比他们带我一起去驯化花园更珍贵，这就是我在他们身上发现吸引力的根源，在我之前当我什至见过希尔贝特时，我想到，如果不是我注定要激起她的蔑视，我不会希望她会接受，她与这位神一般的长者的亲密关系将使她成为我最热情迷人的朋友。我和他一起去参观他喜欢的城镇。瞧，有一天，我收到了一封来自夫人的邀请。斯旺去参加一个大型午餐会。我不知道还有谁会成为客人。当我到达大厅时，当我穿过大厅时，发生了一件令人震惊的事件，我感到很不安。女士。斯旺很少错过采用那些流行了一季的习俗的机会，然后，由于找不到支持，很快就被抛弃了（例如，很多年前，她就拥有了她的“私人双轮马车”，或者现在有一张英文印在一张邀请你参加午餐的卡片上，上面写着“见面”，后面跟着一些或多或少重要人物的名字）。这些用法通常并不意味着什么神秘的东西，也不需要任何启蒙。以当时从英国引进的一项微小创新为例；奥黛特给她丈夫印了一些名片，上面印有查尔斯·斯旺的名字“先生”。在我第一次拜访她之后，夫人。斯旺在我家门口留下了一张她所说的“粘贴板”。以前从来没有人在我身上留下过卡片；我立刻感到无比自豪、激动和感激，于是我凑足了所有的钱，订购了一篮精美的山茶花，并把它寄给了夫人。斯旺。 我恳求父亲去给她留下一张卡片，但首先要尽快印上一张卡片，上面写上他的名字，并加上前缀“先生”。他没有答应我的祈祷；我绝望了好几天，然后问自己他是否最终是对的。但这个“先生”的用法，即使没有任何意义，至少也是可以理解的。但在这次午餐聚会上向我透露的另一件事却并非如此，但在没有任何迹象表明其意图的情况下透露了这一点。当我正要从大厅走进客厅时，管家递给我一个薄薄的长方形信封，上面写着我的名字。我惊讶地向他表示感谢。但我疑惑地看着信封。我不知道我应该用它做什么，就像一个外国人不知道如何处理中国宴会上摆在他的位置上的那些小器具一样。我注意到它被粘住了；我害怕当场打开它会显得不检点。于是我装出一副无所不知的样子把它塞进口袋里。女士。几天前，斯旺写信给我，邀请我和“几个人”一起去参加午餐会。然而，我们有十六个人，我从来没有怀疑过我会在他们中间找到贝戈特。女士。斯旺已经向她的几位客人“命名”了我，正如她所说的那样，突然，用我的名字，用她说话时的语气（事实上，就好像我们只是其中的两个）她的聚会上的客人们，彼此见面时都应该感到同样受宠若惊），有着雪白头发的甜美歌手这样说道。 贝戈特这个名字让我跳了起来，就像左轮手枪向我射击的声音一样，但为了美观，我本能地鞠了一躬；在那里，就在我的正前方，就像我们看到的那些魔术师中的一个一样，他们穿着礼服，完好无损地站着，在一支手枪射出的烟雾中，一只鸽子刚刚在其中振翅飞翔，我的敬礼得到了一个年轻的回敬。常见的身材矮小、粗壮、凝视的人，红鼻子像蜗牛壳一样卷曲，下巴上有一簇黑色的毛。我感到非常失望，因为刚刚消失在爆炸尘埃中的不仅是那个虚弱的老人，现在他的踪迹已不复存在；还有他的尸体。还有一件巨大作品的美感，我想方设法将它供奉在我所建造的脆弱而神圣的有机体中，就像一座寺庙，专门为自己建造，但在矮胖的身材中却找不到空间，紧紧地包裹着它。有血管、骨头、肌肉、肌腱，就是站在我面前的那个长着扁鼻、黑胡子的小个子。我为自己慢慢而精致地阐述的所有贝戈特，像钟乳石一样，从他的书的透明之美中出来，在我不得不阅读的那一刻，就不再有任何用处了（我立刻就看到了）。他有蜗牛壳般的鼻子，还有黑色的小胡子；正如我们必须拒绝解决我们没有完全阅读其条款的问题的毫无价值的解决方案，因为我们没有注意到总数必须达到一个特定的数字。 鼻子和胡须同样是不可避免的元素，更令人恼火的是，在迫使我完全重建贝戈特的人物的同时，它们似乎进一步暗示、产生、不断分泌某种精神品质，警觉和自我——满意，这不在图片中，因为这样的思想与那些散布在我如此熟悉的书籍中的智慧没有任何联系，这些书籍充满了温柔和神圣的智慧。从他们开始，我就不应该到达那个蜗牛鼻子；但从鼻子开始，它似乎没有丝毫感到羞耻，而是像一个固定在脸上的怪诞装饰品一样孤零零地站在那里，我必须沿着与贝戈特的作品截然相反的方向前进，我必须看起来，这是一个忙碌而全神贯注的工程师的心态，当你在街上与他搭讪时，在你真正询问他们的情况之前，他认为应该说：“谢谢，你呢？” ，或者，如果你向他们保证你很想结识他们，请用他们认为有效、明智和最新的缩写来回应，因为它可以避免在无谓的手续上浪费宝贵的时间： '同样在这里！毫无疑问，名字只不过是异想天开的绘图员，给我们描绘的人物和地点的草图与现实相差甚远，以至于当我们眼前看到想象的、可见的世界时，我们常常会感到一种恍惚。 （就这一点而言，这并不是真实的世界，我们的感官与我们的想象力相比，在肖像画艺术方面的天赋并不多，事实上，我们设法获得的现实的最终的、近似栩栩如生的图片至少是与可见世界的不同与与想象世界的不同一样）。但就贝戈特而言，我从他的名字中对他的先入为主的想法远不如我对他的作品的熟悉程度更让我烦恼，我不得不像气球的绳子一样把那个留着小胡子的男人附加到他的作品上，而不知道是否它仍然有力量把他从地上拉起来。然而，很明显，确实是他为我夫人写了我非常喜欢的书。 斯旺认为她有责任告诉他我对其中一位的钦佩，他对她应该向他而不是其他任何人提到这一点并不感到惊讶，他似乎也不认为她的行为是由于这是一种误解，但是，他为招待所有这些尊贵的客人而穿的礼服膨胀起来，身体因期待即将到来的饭菜而膨胀，而他的心思完全被其他更真实、更重要的考虑所占据，只是在他早年生活中的某个已完成的插曲中，仿佛有人对他在一次化装舞会上穿着的吉斯公爵的服装产生了幻觉，当他收回思绪时，他微笑着他的书的想法；我对它们的评价立刻开始下降（随之而来的是美、世界、生命本身的全部价值），直到它们似乎只是一个留着小胡子的男人的休闲娱乐。我告诉自己，他一定为这些珍珠付出了巨大的努力，但是，如果他生活在一个被珍珠贝床包围的岛上，他就会全身心投入到珍珠贝养殖中，并会从中发家致富。贸易。在我看来，他的工作不再那么不可避免。然后我问自己，原创性是否确实证明了伟大的作家都是神，统治着每个人一个属于他自己的王国，或者这一切是否不是虚构的，一个人的书与另一个人的书之间的差异是否不是最重要的？他们各自劳动的结果，而不是两个截然不同的性格之间根本和本质差异的表达。

Meanwhile we had taken our places at the table. By the side of my plate I found a carnation, the stalk of which was wrapped in silver paper. It embarrassed me less than the envelope that had been handed to me in the hall, which, however, I had completely forgotten. This custom, strange as it was to me, became more intelligible when I saw all the male guests take up the similar carnations that were lying by their plates and slip them into the buttonholes of their coats. I did as they had done, with the air of spontaneity that a free-thinker assumes in church, who is not familiar with the order of service but rises when everyone else rises and kneels a moment after everyone else is on his knees. Another usage, equally strange to me but less ephemeral, disquieted me more. On the other side of my plate was a smaller plate, on which was heaped a blackish substance which I did not then know to be caviare. I was ignorant of what was to be done with it but firmly determined not to let it enter my mouth.
与此同时，我们已经在餐桌上就座了。在我的盘子旁边，我发现了一朵康乃馨，它的茎用银纸包裹着。它比大厅里递给我的信封更让我尴尬，但我已经完全忘记了。这种习俗对我来说很奇怪，但当我看到所有的男客人都拿起盘子旁的类似康乃馨，把它们塞进外套的扣眼里时，我就变得更加理解了。我像他们一样做了，带着一种自由思想者在教堂里所表现出的自发神情，他不熟悉服务顺序，但在其他人起立时起立，在其他人跪下后不久跪下。另一种用法对我来说同样奇怪，但不那么短暂，却更让我不安。我盘子的另一边是一个较小的盘子，上面堆着一种黑色的物质，当时我不知道那是鱼子酱。我不知道该怎么处理它，但坚决不让它进入我的嘴。

Bergotte was sitting not far from me and I could hear quite well everything that he said. I understood then the impression that M. de Norpois had formed of him. He had indeed a peculiar ‘organ’; there is nothing that so much alters the material qualities of the voice as the presence of thought behind what one is saying; the resonance of one’s diphthongs, the energy of one’s labials are profoundly affected—in fact, one’s whole way of speaking. His seemed to me to differ entirely from his way of writing, and even the things that he said from those with which he filled his books. But the voice issues from behind a mask through which it is not powerful enough to make us recognise, at first sight, a face which we have seen uncovered in the speaker’s literary style. At certain pobts in the conversation, when Bergotte, by force of habit, began to talk in a way which no one but M. de Norpois would have thought affected or unpleasant, it was a long time before I discovered an exact correspondence with the parts of his books in which his form became so poetic and so musical. At those points I could see in what he was saying a plastic beauty independent of whatever his sentences might mean, and as human speech reflects the human soul, though without expressing it as does literary style, Bergotte appeared almost to be talking nonsense, intoning certain words and, if he were secretly pursuing, beneath them, a single image, stringing them together uninterruptedly on one continuous note, with a wearisome monotony. So that a pretentious, emphatic and monotonous opening was a sign of the rare aesthetic value of what he was saying, and an effect, in his conversation, of the same power which, in his books, produced that harmonious flow of imagery. I had had all the more difficulty in discovering this at first since what he said at such moments, precisely because it was the authentic utterance of Bergotte, had not the appearance of being Bergotte’s. It was an abundant crop of clearly defined ideas, not included in that ‘Bergotte manner’ which so many story-tellers had appropriated to themselves; and this dissimilarity was probably but another aspect—made out with difficulty through the stream of conversation, as an eclipse is seen through a smoked glass—of the fact that when one read a page of Bergotte it was never just what would have been written by any of those lifeless imitators who, nevertheless, in newspapers and in books, adorned their prose with so many ‘Bergottish’ images and ideas. This difference in style arose from the fact that what was meant by ‘Bergottism’ was, first and foremost, a priceless element of truth hidden in the heart of everything, whence it was extracted by that great writer, by virtue of his genius, and that this extraction, and not simply the perpetration of ‘Bergottisms,’ was my sweet Singer’s aim in writing. Though, it must be added, he continued to perpetrate them in spite of himself, and because he was Bergotte, so that, in one sense, every fresh beauty in his work was the little drop of Bergotte buried at the heart of a thing which he had distilled from it. But if, for that reason, each of those beauties was related to all the rest, and had a ‘family likeness,’ yet each remained separate and individual, as was the act of discovery that had brought it to the light of day; new, and consequently different from what was called the Bergotte manner, which was a loose synthesis of all the ‘Bergottisms’ already invented and set forth by him in writing, with no indication by which men who lacked genius might forecast what would be his next discovery. So it is with all great writers, the beauty of their language is as incalculable as that of a woman whom we have never seen; it is creative, because it is applied to an external object of which, and not of their language or its beauty, they are thinking, to which they have not yet given expression. An author of memorials of our time, wishing to write without too obviously seeming to be writing like Saint-Simon, might, on occasion, give us the first line of his portrait of Villars: ‘He was a rather tall man, dark... with an alert, open, expressive physiognomy,’ but what law of determinism could bring him to the discovery of Saint-Simon’s next line, which begins with ‘and, to tell the truth, a trifle mad’? The true variety is in this abundance of real and unexpected elements, in the branch loaded with blue flowers which thrusts itself forward, against all reason, from the spring hedgerow that seemed already overcharged with blossoms, whereas the purely formal imitation of variety (and one might advance the same argument for all the other qualities of style) is but a barren uniformity, that is to say the very antithesis of variety, and cannot, in the work of imitators, give the illusion or recall other examples of variety save to a reader who has not acquired the sense of it from the masters themselves.
贝戈特坐在离我不远的地方，我可以清楚地听到他说的一切。我当时就明白德·诺布瓦先生对他的印象了。他确实有一种奇特的“器官”；没有什么比说话背后的思想更能改变声音的物质品质了。一个人的双元音的共鸣、一个人的唇音的能量都会受到深刻的影响——事实上，一个人的整个说话方式都会受到影响。在我看来，他的写作方式与他的写作方式完全不同，甚至他所说的内容也与他书中所写的内容完全不同。但声音是从面具后面发出的，透过面具，它的力量不足以让我们第一眼认出一张我们在说话者的文学风格中看到的面孔。在谈话中的某些时刻，当贝戈特出于习惯的力量开始以一种除了德·诺布瓦先生之外没有人会认为做作或令人不快的方式说话时，过了很长时间我才发现与这些部分的精确对应。在他的书中，他的形式变得如此富有诗意和音乐性。在那些点上，我可以从他所说的内容中看到一种独立于他的句子可能意味着什么的造型美，并且由于人类的言语反映了人类的灵魂，尽管没有像文学风格那样表达它，贝戈特似乎几乎是在胡说八道，吟诵着某些文字，如果他暗中追寻的话，在文字之下，是一个单一的图像，将它们不间断地串在一起，形成一个连续的音符，带着一种令人厌烦的单调。因此，自命不凡、强调和单调的开头是他所说的话罕见的审美价值的标志，并且在他的谈话中产生了同样的力量，在他的书中产生了和谐的意象流动。 自从他在这种时刻说的话以来，我一开始就更难以发现这一点，因为这是贝戈特的真实言论，而不是贝戈特的表象。这是一大堆明确定义的想法，但不包括许多讲故事的人所采用的“贝尔戈特方式”；这种差异可能只是另一个方面——通过谈话的连贯性很难看出，就像透过烟熏玻璃看到日食一样——当一个人读到贝戈特的一页时，它绝不只是作者所写的内容。那些毫无生气的模仿者，尽管如此，在报纸和书籍中却用如此多的“贝尔戈特式”图像和想法来装饰他们的散文。这种风格上的差异源于这样一个事实，即“贝戈蒂主义”的含义首先是隐藏在一切事物核心的无价真理元素，这位伟大的作家凭借他的天才从中提取了它，并且我亲爱的歌手的写作目的是这种提取，而不仅仅是“贝尔戈蒂主义”的犯下。必须补充的是，尽管他不由自主地继续犯下这些罪行，而且因为他是贝戈特，所以，从某种意义上说，他作品中的每一种新鲜的美都是贝戈特埋藏在事物核心的一小滴。他从中提炼出来。 但是，如果出于这个原因，这些美女中的每一位都与其他所有美女都有关联，并且具有“家族相似性”，但每一位仍然是独立的和个体的，就像将其带入光明的发现行为一样；新的，因此与所谓的贝戈特方式不同，贝戈特方式是他已经发明并以书面形式提出的所有“贝戈特主义”的松散综合，没有任何迹象表明缺乏天才的人可以预测他的下一步会是什么发现。所有伟大的作家都是如此，他们的语言之美就像我们从未见过的女人的语言一样难以估量。它是创造性的，因为它应用于一个外部对象，他们正在思考这个外部对象，而不是他们的语言或其美，他们还没有表达出来。我们这个时代的一位纪念碑作者，希望在写作时不显得过于明显地像圣西门一样，有时可能会给我们他对维拉尔的描绘的第一行：“他是一个相当高的男人，皮肤黝黑……” ......具有警觉、开放、富有表现力的相貌，”但是决定论的什么法则可以使他发现圣西门的下一句诗句，其开头是“而且，说实话，有点疯狂”？ 真正的多样性在于这种丰富的真实和意想不到的元素，在挂满蓝色花朵的树枝中，它违背一切理由，从似乎已经开满了花朵的春天树篱中向前推进，而纯粹形式上的多样性模仿（和一个可能对风格的所有其他品质提出相同的论点）只不过是一种贫瘠的统一性，也就是说，多样性的对立面，并且在模仿者的作品中，不能给出幻觉或回忆起其他多样性的例子，除非尚未从大师本人那里获得这种感觉的读者。

And so—just as Bergotte’s way of speaking would no doubt have been charming if he himself had been merely an amateur repeating imitations of Bergotte, whereas it was attached to the mind of Bergotte, at work and in action, by essential ties which the ear did not at once distinguish—so it was because Bergotte applied that mind with precision to the reality which pleased him that his language had in it something positive, something over-rich, disappointing those who expected to hear him speak only of the ‘eternal torrent of forms,’ and of the ‘mystic thrills of beauty.’ Moreover the quality, always rare and new, of what he wrote was expressed in his conversation by so subtle a manner of approaching a question, ignoring every aspect of it that was already familiar, that he appeared to be seizing hold of an unimportant detail, to be quite wrong about it, to be speaking in paradox, so that his ideas seemed as often as not to be in confusion, for each of us finds lucidity only in those ideas which are in the same state of confusion as his own. Besides, as all novelty depends upon the elimination, first, of the stereotyped attitude to which we have grown accustomed, and which has seemed to us to be reality itself, every new conversation, as well as all original painting and music, must always appear laboured and tedious. It is founded upon figures of speech with which we are not familiar, the speaker appears to us to be talking entirely in metaphors; and this wearies us, and gives us the impression of a want of truth. (After all, the old forms of speech must in their time have been images difficult to follow when the listener was not yet cognisant of the universe which they depicted. But he has long since decided that this must be the real universe, and so relies confidently upon it.) So when Bergotte—and his figures appear simple enough to-day—said of Cottard that he was a mannikin in a bottle, always trying to rise to the surface, and of Brichot that ‘to him even more than to Mme. Swann the arrangement of his hair was a matter for anxious deliberation, because, in his twofold preoccupation over his profile and his reputation, he had always to make sure that it was so brushed as to give him the air at once of a lion and of a philosopher,’ one immediately felt the strain, and sought a foothold upon something which one called more concrete, meaning by that more ordinary. These unintelligible words, issuing from the mask that I had before my eyes, it was indeed to the writer whom I admired that they must be attributed, and yet they could not have been inserted among his books, in the form of a puzzle set in a series of different puzzles, they occupied another plane and required a transposition by means of which, one day, when I was repeating to myself certain phrases that I had heard Bergotte use, I discovered in them the whole machinery of his literary style, the different elements of which I was able to recognise and to name in this spoken discourse which had struck me as being so different.
因此，正如如果贝戈特本人只是一个重复模仿贝戈特的业余爱好者，那么贝戈特的说话方式无疑会很迷人，而在工作和行动中，贝戈特的说话方式却通过耳朵所固有的联系与他的思想紧密相连。并没有立即区分——所以这是因为贝戈特将头脑精确地运用到现实中，这让他高兴，他的语言中有一些积极的东西，一些过于丰富的东西，让那些期望听到他只谈论“永恒的洪流”的人感到失望此外，他所写的东西总是罕见而新颖的品质，在他的谈话中通过如此微妙的处理问题的方式表达出来，忽略了已经存在的每个方面。熟悉的是，他似乎抓住了一个不重要的细节，对此完全错误，在悖论中说话，因此他的想法似乎常常不混乱，因为我们每个人都只能在那些这些想法和他自己的想法一样混乱。此外，由于所有的新颖性首先都取决于消除我们已经习惯的刻板态度，而这种态度对我们来说似乎就是现实本身，所以每一次新的对话，以及所有原创的绘画和音乐，都必须始终出现费力又乏味。它建立在我们不熟悉的修辞手法的基础上，在我们看来，说话者完全是在用隐喻说话；这让我们感到厌倦，并给我们留下缺乏真相的印象。 （毕竟，当听众尚未认识到它们所描绘的宇宙时，旧的言语形式在当时必定是难以理解的图像。 但他早就认定这一定是真实的宇宙，因此充满信心地依赖它。）因此，当贝戈特（以及他的人物今天看起来足够简单）谈到科塔尔时，他说他是瓶中的人体模型，总是在尝试浮出水面，而布里肖的这一点“对他来说甚至比对夫人更重要”。斯旺对他的头发的排列是一个焦急的深思熟虑的问题，因为，在他对自己的形象和声誉的双重关注中，他总是要确保头发梳理得既像狮子又像狮子。一位哲学家，”人们立即感到压力，并在人们所谓的更具体、更普通的东西上寻找立足点。这些难以理解的话语，从我眼前的面具中发出，确实是我所敬佩的作家的作品，但它们不可能以拼图的形式插入到他的书中。一系列不同的谜题，它们占据了另一个平面，需要一种换位，有一天，当我对自己重复听贝戈特用过的某些短语时，我在其中发现了他文学风格的全部机制，即在这段口语对话中，我能够识别并说出其中的不同元素，这些元素让我感到如此不同。

>From a less immediate point of view the special way, a little too meticulous, too intense, that he had of pronouncing certain words, certain adjectives which were constantly recurring in his conversation, and which he never uttered without a certain emphasis, giving to each of their syllables a separate force and intoning the last syllable (as for instance the word visage, which he always used in preference to figure, and enriched with a number of superfluous v’s and s’s and g’s, which seemed all to explode from his outstretched palm at such moments) corresponded exactly to the fine passages in which, in his prose, he brought those favourite words into the light, preceded by a sort of margin and composed in such a way in the metrical whole of the phrase that the reader was obliged, if he were not to make a false quantity, to give to each of them its full value. And yet one did not find in the speech of Bergotte a certain luminosity which in his books, as in those of some other writers, often modified in the written phrase the appearance of its words. This was doubtless because that light issues from so profound a depth that its rays do not penetrate to our spoken words in the hours in which, thrown open to others by the act of conversation, we are to a certain extent closed against ourselves. In this respect, there were more intonations, there was more accent in his books than in his talk; an accent independent of the beauty of style, which the author himself has possibly not perceived, for it is not separable from his most intimate personality. It was this accent which, at the moments when, in his books, Bergotte was entirely natural, gave a rhythm to the words—often at such times quite insignificant—that he wrote. This accent is not marked on the printed page, there is nothing there to indicate it, and yet it comes of its own accord to his phrases, one cannot pronounce them in any other way, it is what was most ephemeral and at the same time most profound in the writer, and it is what will bear witness to his true nature, what will say whether, despite all the austerity that he has expressed he was gentle, despite all his sensuality sentimental.
>从不太直接的角度来看，他在发音某些单词、某些形容词时所采用的特殊方式，有点过于细致、过于强烈，这些单词、形容词在他的谈话中不断重复出现，而且他从来没有在不强调的情况下说出这些词，给予他们的每个音节都有一个单独的力量，并吟诵最后一个音节（例如“visage”这个词，他总是优先使用这个词来表示数字，并用一些多余的v、s和g来丰富，这些词似乎都从他伸展的身体中爆发出来）手掌在这样的时刻）完全对应于他的散文中的精美段落，在这些段落中，他将那些最喜欢的词带入光中，前面有一种空白，并以这样的方式组成了整个短语的格律，读者会感到惊讶。如果他不想做出错误的数量，他就有义务给出每一个的全部价值。然而，人们在贝戈特的演讲中并没有发现某种光彩，而在他的书中，就像在其他一些作家的作品中一样，这种光彩经常在书面短语中修改其单词的外观。毫无疑问，这是因为光从如此深的深处射出，以至于在我们通过谈话行为向他人敞开心扉、在一定程度上对自己封闭起来的时间里，它的光线无法穿透我们所说的话语。在这方面，他的书中的语调、口音比他的演讲更多。一种独立于风格之美的口音，作者本人可能没有意识到，因为它与他最亲密的个性密不可分。正是这种口音，在贝戈特在他的书中完全自然的时刻，给他所写的文字赋予了节奏——通常在这种时候是相当微不足道的。 这种重音没有在印刷页上标记，没有任何东西可以表明它，但它本身就符合他的短语，人们无法以任何其他方式发音它们，它是最短暂的，同时也是最短暂的作家身上最深刻的东西，它将见证他的真实本性，说明尽管他表现出所有的朴素，但他是否温柔，尽管他所有的肉欲感伤。

Certain peculiarities of elocution, faint traces of which were to be found in Bergotte’s conversation, were not exclusively his own; for when, later on, I came to know his brothers and sisters, I found those peculiarities much more accentuated in their speech. There was something abrupt and harsh in the closing words of a light and spirited utterance, something faint and dying at the end of a sad one. Swann, who had known the Master as a boy, told me that in those days one used to hear on his lips, just as much as on his brothers’ and sisters’, those inflexions, almost a family type, shouts of violent merriment interspersed with murmurings of a long-drawn melancholy, and that in the room in which they all played together he used to perform his part, better than any of them, in their symphonies, alternately deafening and subdued. However characteristic it may be, the sound that escapes from human lips is fugitive and does not survive the speaker. But it was not so with the pronunciation of the Bergotte family. For if it is difficult ever to understand, even in the Meistersinger, how an artist can invent music by listening to the twittering of birds, yet Bergotte had transposed and fixed in his written language that manner of dwelling on words which repeat themselves in shouts of joy, or fall, drop by drop, in melancholy sighs. There are in his books just such closing phrases where the accumulated sounds are prolonged (as in the last chords of the overture of an opera which cannot come to an end, and repeats several times over its supreme cadence before the conductor finally lays down his baton), in which, later on, I was to find a musical equivalent for those phonetic ‘brasses’ of the Bergotte family. But in his own case, from the moment in which he transferred them to his books, he ceased instinctively to make use of them in his speech. From the day on which he had begun to write—all the more markedly, therefore, in the later years in which I first knew him—his voice had lost this orchestration for ever.
在贝戈特的谈话中可以发现一些演讲的独特之处，这些特点并不完全是他自己的。因为后来，当我认识他的兄弟姐妹时，我发现这些特点在他们的讲话中更加突出。轻松而充满活力的结束语中有一些突然而刺耳的东西，而在悲伤的结束语中却有一些微弱而濒临死亡的东西。斯旺小时候就认识大师，他告诉我，在那些日子里，人们经常从他的嘴里听到，就像从他的兄弟姐妹们嘴里听到的那样，那些音调变化，几乎是家庭式的，夹杂着暴力欢乐的叫喊声。带着拖长的忧郁低语，在他们一起演奏的房间里，他常常比他们中的任何人都更好地表演自己的部分，在他们的交响乐中，时而震耳欲聋，时而压抑。无论声音多么有特色，从人的嘴唇中逸出的声音都是短暂的，无法在扬声器中幸存下来。但贝戈特家族的发音却并非如此。因为，即使在《名歌手》中，如果很难理解艺术家如何通过聆听鸟儿的鸣叫来发明音乐，但贝戈特却在他的书面语言中转换并固定了那种在人们的叫喊中重复出现的词语的方式。喜悦，或坠落，一滴一滴，在忧郁的叹息中。在他的书中就有这样的结束语，其中积累的声音被延长（就像一部歌剧序曲的最后和弦，它无法结束，在指挥最终放下指挥棒之前，它以最高的节奏重复了几次） ），后来我在其中找到了与贝戈特家族的那些语音“铜管乐器”相对应的音乐。 但就他自己而言，从他将它们转移到书本上的那一刻起，他就本能地不再在演讲中使用它们。从他开始写作的那一天起——因此，在我第一次认识他的后来几年里，这一点更加明显——他的声音​​就永远失去了这种管弦乐效果。

These young Bergottes—the future writer and his brothers and sisters—were doubtless in no way superior, far from it, to other young people, more refined, more intellectual than themselves, who found the Bergottes rather ‘loud that is to say a trifle vulgar, irritating one by the witticisms which characterised the tone, at once pretentious and puerile, of their household. But genius, and even what is only great talent, springs less from seeds of intellect and social refinement superior to those of other people than from the faculty of transposing, and so transforming them. To heat a liquid over an electric lamp one requires to have not the strongest lamp possible, but one of which the current can cease to illuminate, can be diverted so as instead of light to give heat. To mount the skies it is not necessary to have the most powerful of motors, one must have a motor which, instead of continuing to run along the earth’s surface, intersecting with a vertical line the horizontal which it began by following, is capable of converting its speed into ascending force. Similarly the men who produce works of genius are not those who live in the most delicate atmosphere, whose conversation is most brilliant or their culture broadest, but those who have had the power, ceasing in a moment to live only for themselves, to make use of their personality as of a mirror, m such a way that their life, however unimportant it may be socially, and even, in a sense, intellectually speaking, is reflected by it, genius consisting in the reflective power of the writer and not in the intrinsic quality of the scene reflected. The day on which young Bergotte succeeded in shewing to the world of his readers the tasteless household in which he had passed his childhood, and the not very amusing conversations between himself and his brothers, on that day he climbed far above the friends of his family, more intellectual and more distinguished than himself; they in their fine Rolls Royces might return home expressing due contempt for the vulgarity of the Bergottes; but he, with his modest engine which had at last left the ground, he soared above their heads.
这些年轻的贝戈特——未来的作家和他的兄弟姐妹——毫无疑问绝不比其他年轻人优越，远非如此，他们比他们自己更文雅、更有智慧，他们发现贝戈特一家相当“吵闹，也就是说，有点吵闹”。粗俗，令人恼火的是他们家里的语气，既自命不凡又幼稚，充满了俏皮话。但天才，甚至只是伟大的才能，与其说源自于优于其他人的智力种子和社会修养，不如说源自于转换和改造它们的能力。为了在电灯上加热液体，不需要使用最强的灯，但其中的一盏灯的电流可以停止发光，可以转移，以便代替光来加热。要登上天空，不需要拥有最强大的发动机，人们必须拥有一台发动机，它不是继续沿着地球表面运行，而是与它开始遵循的水平线相交的垂直线，能够将它的速度转化为上升的力量。同样，创造出天才作品的人，并不是那些生活在最微妙的气氛中、他们的谈吐最精彩、文化最博大的人，而是那些拥有力量的人，他们暂时停止只为自己而活，利用他们的个性就像一面镜子一样，这样一来，他们的生活，无论在社会上多么不重要，甚至从某种意义上说，从智力上来说，都可以被镜子反映出来，天才存在于作家的反思能力中，而不是存在于作家的反思能力中。反映了场景的内在质量。 年轻的贝戈特成功地向读者展示了他度过童年的无味家庭，以及他和兄弟之间不太有趣的谈话的那一天，在那一天，他远远超越了他家人的朋友，比他自己更聪明、更杰出；他们可能会开着精美的劳斯莱斯回家，表达对贝戈特家族粗俗的蔑视。但他，凭借他那部终于离开地面的简陋发动机，飞到了他们的头顶上方。

But there were other characteristics of his elocution which it was not with the members of his family, but with certain contemporary writers, that he must share. Younger men, who were beginning to repudiate him as a master and disclaimed any intellectual affinity to him in themselves, displayed their affinity without knowing it when they made use of the same adverbs, the same prepositions that he incessantly repeated, when they constructed their sentences in the same way, spoke in the same quiescent, lingering tone, by a reaction from the eloquent, easy language of an earlier generation. Perhaps these young men—we shall come across some of whom this may be said—had never known Bergotte. But his way of thinking, inoculated into them, had led them to those alterations of syntax and of accent which bear a necessary relation to originality of mind. A relation which, incidentally, requires to be traced. Thus Bergotte, if he owed nothing to any man for his manner of writing, derived his manner of speaking from one of his early associates, a marvellous talker to whose ascendancy he had succumbed, whom he imitated, unconsciously, in his conversation, but who himself, being less gifted, had never written any really outstanding book. So that if one had been in quest of originality in speech, Bergotte must have been labelled a disciple, a writer at second-hand, whereas, influenced by his friend only so far as talk went, he had been original and creative in his writings. Doubtless again, so as to distinguish himself from the previous generation, too fond as it had been of abstractions, of weighty commonplaces, when Bergotte wished to speak favourably of a book, what he would bring into prominence, what he would quote with approval would always be some scene that furnished the reader with an image, some picture that had no rational significance. ‘Ah, yes!’ he would exclaim, ‘it is quite admirable! There is a little girl in an orange shawl. It is excellent!’ or again, ‘Oh, yes, there is a passage in which there is a regiment marching along the street; yes, it is excellent!’ As for style, he was not altogether of his time (though he remained quite exclusively of his race, abominating Tolstoy, George Eliot, Ibsen and Dostoievsky), for the word that always came to his lips when he wished to praise the style of any writer was ‘mild.’ ‘Yes, you know I like Chateaubriand better in Atala than in René; he seems to me to be ‘milder.’’ He said the word like a doctor who, when his patient assures him that milk will give him indigestion, answers, ‘But, you know, it’s very ‘mild’.’ And it is true that there was in Bergotte’s style a kind of harmony similar to that for which the ancients used to praise certain of their orators in terms which we now find it hard to understand, accustomed as we are to our own modern tongues in which effects of that kind are not sought.
但他的演说还有其他一些特点，这些特点不是他的家庭成员所共有的，而是某些当代作家所共有的。年轻人开始否认他是一位大师，并否认自己与他有任何智力上的亲和力，当他们在构造句子时使用他不断重复的相同副词、相同介词时，他们不知不觉地表现出了他们的亲和力。同样，他们也用同样平静、缠绵的语气说话，这是对上一代人雄辩、轻松的语言的反应。也许这些年轻人——我们可能会遇到其中一些人——从来不认识贝戈特。但他的思维方式被灌输给他们，导致他们对句法和口音进行了改变，而这些改变与心灵的独创性有着必然的联系。顺便说一句，这种关系需要被追踪。因此，贝戈特的写作方式虽然不归功于任何人，但他的说话方式却是从他早期的一位同事那里学来的，他是一位出色的健谈者，他的优势是在他的影响下取得的，他在谈话中无意识地模仿了他，但他却是一位出色的健谈者。他自己由于天赋较差，从未写过任何真正杰出的书。因此，如果有人追求言论的独创性，贝戈特一定会被贴上门徒、二手作家的标签，而仅在谈话中受到他朋友的影响，他的作品就具有独创性和创造性。 。 毫无疑问，为了与上一代人区分开来，他们太喜欢抽象概念和沉重的陈词滥调，当贝戈特想要赞扬一本书时，他会突出什么，他会赞同地引用什么总是一些为读者提供图像的场景，一些没有理性意义的图画。 “啊，是的！”他惊叹道，“真是令人钦佩！”有一个披着橙色披肩的小女孩。太棒了！”或者再次，“哦，是的，有一段通道，有一个团在沿街行进；是的，它太棒了！”至于风格，他并不完全属于他的时代（尽管他仍然完全属于他的种族，厌恶托尔斯泰、乔治·艾略特、易卜生和陀思妥耶夫斯基），因为当他想要赞扬任何作家的风格都是“温和的”。“是的，你知道我更喜欢阿塔拉的夏多布里昂，而不是雷内；”在我看来，他‘比较温和’。”他说这个词的方式就像一位医生，当他的病人向他保证牛奶会导致他消化不良时，他回答道：“但是，你知道，它非常‘温和’。”诚然，贝戈特的风格中有一种和谐，类似于古人用来赞扬某些演说家的和谐，而我们现在却发现很难理解，因为我们已经习惯了我们自己的现代语言，而这种和谐的效果在我们现在看来很难理解。不寻求善良。

He would say also, with a shy smile, of pages of his own for which some one had expressed admiration: ‘I think it is more or less true, more or less accurate; it may be of some value perhaps,’ but he would say this simply from modesty, as a woman to whom one has said that her dress, or her daughter, is charming replies, ‘It is comfortable,’ or ‘She is a good girl.’ But the constructive instinct was too deeply implanted in Bergotte for him not to be aware that the sole proof that he had built usefully and on the lines of truth lay in the pleasure that his work had given, to himself first of all and afterwards to his readers. Only many years later, when he no longer had any talent, whenever he wrote anything with which he was not satisfied, so as not to have to suppress it, as he ought to have done, so as to be able to publish it with a clear conscience he would repeat, but to himself this time: ‘After all, it is more or less accurate, it must be of some value to the country.’ So that the phrase murmured long ago among his admirers by the insincere voice of modesty came in the end to be whispered in the secrecy of his heart by the uneasy tongue of pride. And the same words which had served Bergotte as an unwanted excuse for the excellence of his earliest works became as it were an ineffective consolation to him for the hopeless mediocrity of the latest.
当谈到有人对他自己的书页表示钦佩时，他也会带着害羞的微笑说道：也许它可能有一定的价值，”但他会这样说，只是出于谦虚，就像一个女人，如果有人对她说她的衣服或她的女儿很迷人，她会回答说，“很舒服”，或者“她是一个好人”。但建设性的本能在贝戈特身上根深蒂固，他不可能不知道，他的建设是有用的、基于真理的唯一证据，就在于他的工作给他带来的快乐，首先是给他自己，之后向他的读者。只是很多年以后，当他不再有任何才华的时候，每当他写出任何令他不满意的东西时，他就不必像他应该做的那样压抑它，以便能够以高的评价出版它。他会问心无愧地重复一遍，但这次是对自己说：“毕竟，它或多或少是准确的，它一定对国家有一定的价值。”因此，这句话很久以前就在他的崇拜者中以不真诚的谦虚声音低声响起。最后，骄傲的不安的舌头在他内心深处悄悄低语了这句话。贝戈特曾为他早期作品的卓越性提供不必要的借口，但对他最新作品的平庸无助来说，这句话却成了一种无效的安慰。

A kind of austerity of taste which he had, a kind of determination to write nothing of which he could not say that it was ‘mild,’ which had made people for so many years regard him as a sterile and precious artist, a chiseller of exquisite trifles, was on the contrary the secret of his strength, for habit forms the style of the writer just as much as the character of the man, and the author who has more than once been patient to attain, in the expression of his thoughts, to a certain kind of attractiveness, in so doing lays down unalterably the boundaries of his talent, just as if he yields too often to pleasure, to laziness, to the fear of being put to trouble, he will find himself describing in terms which no amount of revision can modify, the forms of his own vices and the limits of his virtue.
他所具有的一种朴素的品味，一种不写任何不能说是“温和”的东西的决心，使人们多年来把他视为一位贫瘠而珍贵的艺术家，一位雕刻家。相反，精致的小事才是他力量的秘密，因为习惯形成了作家的风格，就像这个人的性格一样，而作家则不止一次耐心地在表达他的思想时做到这一点。 ，为了某种吸引力，这样做不可改变地奠定了他的才能的界限，就像他经常屈服于快乐，懒惰，害怕陷入麻烦一样，他会发现自己用以下术语来描述：再多的修改也无法改变他自己的恶习的形式和他的美德的限度。

If, however, despite all the analogies which I was to perceive later on between the writer and the man, I had not at first sight, in Mme. Swann’s drawing-room, believed that this could be Bergotte, the author of so many divine books, who stood before me, perhaps I was not altogether wrong, for he himself did not, in the strict sense of the word, ‘believe’ it either. He did not believe it because he shewed a great assiduity in the presence of fashionable people (and yet he was not a snob), of literary men and journalists who were vastly inferior to himself. Of course he had long since learned, from the suffrage of his readers, that he had genius, compared to which social position and official rank were as nothing. He had learned that he had genius, but he did not believe it because he continued to simulate deference towards mediocre writers in order to succeed, shortly, in becoming an Academician, whereas the Academy and the Faubourg Saint-Germain have no more to do with that part of the Eternal Mind which is the author of the works of Bergotte than with the law of causality or the idea of God. That also he knew, but as a kleptomaniac knows, without profiting by the knowledge, that it is wrong to steal. And the man with the little beard and snail-shell nose knew and used all the tricks of the gentleman who pockets your spoons, in his efforts to reach the coveted academic chair, or some duchess or other who could dispose of several votes at the election, but while on his way to them he would endeavour to make sure that no one who would consider the pursuit of such an object a vice in him should see what he was doing. He was only half-successful; one could hear, alternating with the speech of the true Bergotte, that of the other Bergotte, ambitious, utterly selfish, who thought it not worth his while to speak of any but his powerful, rich or noble friends, so as to enhance his own position, he who in his books, when he was really himself, had so well portrayed the charm, pure as a mountain spring, of poverty.
然而，尽管我后来在作家和这个人之间发现了所有的类比，但我第一眼看到的时候，我并没有在夫人身上看到这些相似之处。斯万的客厅里，我相信这可能是站在我面前的贝戈特，这位许多神书的作者，也许我并没有完全错，因为他本人并不“相信”这个词的严格意义。任何一个。他不相信这一点，因为他在时尚人士（但他不是势利小人）、文学家和记者面前表现出极大的勤奋，而这些人远不如他。当然，他早就从读者的投票中得知，他有天才，与之相比，社会地位和官衔简直算不了什么。他知道自己有天才，但他不相信这一点，因为他继续假装对平庸作家的尊重，以便很快成功地成为一名院士，而学院和圣日耳曼郊区与他们没有更多关系。贝尔戈特作品的作者永恒心灵的那一部分，而不是因果律或上帝的观念。他也知道这一点，但作为一个盗窃狂，他知道，在没有从知识中获利的情况下，偷窃是错误的。那个留着小胡子和蜗牛壳鼻子的男人知道并使用了把你的勺子装进口袋的绅士的所有伎俩，以努力获得令人垂涎的学术主席，或者某个公爵夫人或其他可以在选举中处理几张选票的人但在前往他们的途中，他会尽力确保任何认为追求这样的目标是他的恶习的人都不会看到他在做什么。 他只成功了一半；人们可以听到，在真正的贝戈特的讲话中，还有另一个贝戈特的讲话，他雄心勃勃，完全自私，他认为除了他有权势、富有或高贵的朋友之外，不值得花时间谈论任何人，以提高自己的地位。他在他的书中，当他真正是他自己时，很好地描绘了贫穷的魅力，纯净如山泉。

As for those other vices to which M. de Norpois had alluded, that almost incestuous love, which was made still worse, people said, by a want of delicacy in the matter of money, if they contradicted, in a shocking manner, the tendency of his latest novels, in which he shewed everywhere a regard for what was right and proper so painfully rigid that the most innocent pleasures of their heroes were poisoned by it, and that even the reader found himself turning their pages with a sense of acute discomfort, and asked himself whether it was possible to go on living even the quietest of lives, those vices did not at all prove, supposing that they were fairly imputed to Bergotte, that his literature was a lie and all his sensitiveness mere play-acting. Just as in pathology certain conditions similar in appearance are due, some to an excess, others to an insufficiency of tension, of secretion and so forth, so there may be vice arising from supersensitiveness just as much as from the lack of it. Perhaps it is only in really vicious lives that the moral problem can arise in all its disquieting strength. And of this problem the artist finds a solution in the terms not of his own personal life but of what is for him the true life, a general, a literary solution. As the great Doctors of the Church began often, without losing their virtue, by acquainting themselves with the sins of all mankind, out of which they extracted their own personal sanctity, so great artists often, while being thoroughly wicked, make use of their vices in order to arrive at a conception of the moral law that is binding upon us all. It is the vices (or merely the weaknesses and follies) of the circle in which they live, the meaningless conversation, the frivolous or shocking lives of their daughters, the infidelity of their wives, or their own misdeeds that writers have most often castigated in their books, without, however, thinking it necessary to alter their domestic economy or to improve the tone of their households. And this contrast had never before been so striking as it was in Bergotte’s time, because, on the one hand, in proportion as society grew more corrupt, our notions of morality were increasingly exalted, while on the other hand the public were now told far more than they had ever hitherto known about the private lives of literary men; and on certain evenings in the theatre people would point out the author whom I had so greatly admired at Combray, sitting at the back of a box the mere composition of which seemed an oddly humorous, or perhaps keenly ironical commentary upon—a brazen-faced denial of—the thesis which he had just been maintaining in his latest book. Not that anything which this or that casual informant could tell me was of much use in helping me to settle the question of the goodness or wickedness of Bergotte. An intimate friend would furnish proofs of his hardheartedness; then a stranger would cite some instance (touching, since he had evidently wished it to remain hidden) of his real depth of feeling. He had behaved cruelly to his wife. But in a village inn, where he had gone to spend the night, he had stayed on to watch over a poor woman who had tried to drown herself, and when he was obliged to continue his journey had left a large sum of money with the landlord, so that he should not turn the poor creature out, but see that she got proper attention. Perhaps the more the great writer was developed in Bergotte at the expense of the little man with the beard, so much the more his own personal life was drowned in the flood of all the lives that he imagined, until he no longer felt himself obliged to perform certain practical duties, for which he had substituted the duty of imagining those other lives. But at the same time, because he imagined the feelings of others as completely as if they had been his own, whenever he was obliged, for any reason, to talk to some person who had been unfortunate (that is to say in a casual encounter) he would, in doing so, take up not his own personal standpoint but that of the sufferer himself, a standpoint in which he would have been horrified by the speech of those who continued to think of their own petty concerns in the presence of another’s grief. With the result that he gave rise everywhere to justifiable rancour and to undying gratitude.
至于德·诺普瓦先生提到的其他恶习，即近乎乱伦的爱情，人们说，由于在金钱问题上缺乏精致，如果它们以令人震惊的方式与这种倾向相矛盾，这种爱情就会变得更糟。在他最新的小说中，他在书中处处表现出对正确和恰当的尊重，这种尊重是如此严格，以至于他们的英雄最无辜的快乐都被它毒害了，甚至连读者也发现自己在翻阅书页时感到一种强烈的不适感。 ，并问自己是否有可能继续过哪怕是最安静的生活，假设这些恶习被公平地归咎于贝戈特，那么这些恶习根本无法证明他的文学是谎言，他所有的敏感都只是在演戏。正如在病理学中，某些外观相似的情况是由于过度敏感引起的，另一些是由于紧张、分泌不足等引起的，因此，过度敏感和缺乏过度敏感都可能产生恶习。也许只有在真正邪恶的生活中，道德问题才会以其令人不安的力量出现。对于这个问题，艺术家不是从他自己的个人生活中找到解决方案，而是从对他来说真正的生活、一般的、文学的解决方案中找到解决方案。正如伟大的教会圣师常常在不丧失美德的情况下开始了解全人类的罪恶，并从中提取出个人的神圣性，同样，伟大的艺术家虽然是彻头彻尾的邪恶，却常常利用他们的恶习为了达成对我们所有人都有约束力的道德法则的概念。 作家们最常谴责的是他们所生活的圈子的罪恶（或者仅仅是弱点和愚蠢）、无意义的谈话、女儿的轻浮或令人震惊的生活、妻子的不忠或他们自己的不当行为。然而，他们的书并不认为有必要改变国内经济或改善家庭氛围。这种反差从来没有像贝戈特时代那样如此引人注目，因为一方面，随着社会变得更加腐败，我们的道德观念也越来越高尚，而另一方面，公众现在被告知的程度越来越高。他们对文学家的私生活的了解比以往任何时候都多；在某些晚上，在剧院里，人们会指出我在贡布雷非常钦佩的作家，他坐在包厢的后面，光是包厢的构图就显得奇怪的幽默，或者也许是尖锐的讽刺评论——一个厚颜无耻的人否认——他刚刚在最新著作中坚持的论点。并不是说这个或那个偶然的线人告诉我的任何事情对于帮助我解决贝戈特的善良或邪恶的问题有多大用处。一个亲密的朋友会提供他的冷酷无情的证据；然后，一个陌生人会引用一些实例（感人的，因为他显然希望将其隐藏起来）来表达他真实的情感深度。他对他的妻子表现得很残忍。但在他去的一家乡村客栈过夜时，他留下来看守一个试图投河自尽的可怜女人，当他不得不继续他的旅程时，他留下了一大笔钱房东，这样他就不应该把这个可怜的人赶出去，但要确保她得到适当的关注。 或许，贝戈特的伟大作家越以牺牲留着胡子的小个子为代价，他自己的个人生活就越被淹没在他想象的所有生活的洪流中，直到他不再觉得自己有义务这样做。履行某些实际职责，他用想象其他生活的职责来代替这些职责。但同时，因为他完全想象别人的感受，就好像他们自己的感受一样，每当他出于某种原因不得不与某个不幸的人交谈时（也就是说，在一次偶然的相遇中） ）在这样做时，他不会采取自己的个人立场，而是采取受害者本人的立场，在这种立场下，他会对那些在他人面前继续考虑自己琐事的人的言论感到震惊。悲伤。结果，他到处引起合理的怨恨和永恒的感激。

Above all, he was a man who in his heart of hearts loved nothing really except certain images and (like a miniature set in the floor of a casket) the composing and painting of them in words. For a trifle that some one had sent him, if that trifle gave him the opportunity of introducing one or two of these images, he would be prodigal in the expression of his gratitude, while shewing none whatever for an expensive present. And if he had had to plead before a tribunal, he would inevitably have chosen his words not for the effect that they might have on the judge but with an eye to certain images which the judge would certainly never have perceived.
最重要的是，他在内心深处除了某些图像以及（就像棺材地板上的微型模型）用文字对它们进行构图和绘画之外，什么都不喜欢。对于某人送给他的一件小事，如果那件小事让他有机会介绍其中一两张这样的图像，他会挥霍地表达他的感激之情，而不会为昂贵的礼物而展示任何东西。如果他必须在法庭上辩护，他所选择的措辞将不可避免地不是为了对法官产生影响，而是着眼于法官肯定永远不会察觉的某些图像。

That first day on which I met him with Gilberte’s parents, I mentioned to Bergotte that I had recently been to hear Berma in Phèdre; and he told me that in the scene in which she stood with her arm raised to the level of her shoulder—one of those very scenes that had been greeted with such applause—she had managed to suggest with great nobility of art certain classical figures which, quite possibly, she had never even seen, a Hesperid carved in the same attitude upon a metope at Olympia, and also the beautiful primitive virgins on the Erechtheum.
在我与吉尔贝特的父母见面的第一天，我向贝戈特提到我最近去菲德尔听了贝尔玛的演奏；他告诉我，在她站立的场景中，手臂举到肩膀的高度——这正是那些受到热烈掌声欢迎的场景之一——她成功地以极高的艺术高贵性暗示了某些古典人物，很可能，她甚至从未见过，在奥林匹亚的墙面上以同样的姿态雕刻的赫斯珀丽德，以及厄瑞克提翁神庙上美丽的原始处女。

‘It may be sheer divination, and yet I fancy that she visits the museums. It would be interesting to ‘establish’ that.’ (’Establish’ was one of those regular Bergotte expressions, and one which various young men who had never met him had caught from him, speaking like him by some sort of telepathic suggestion.)
“这可能纯粹是占卜，但我还是觉得她参观了博物馆。 “建立”这一点会很有趣。（“建立”是贝戈特常用的表达方式之一，许多从未见过他的年轻人都从他那里学到了这一说法，他们通过某种心灵感应暗示像他一样说话。）

‘Do you mean the Cariatides?’ asked Swann.
“你是说《Cariatides》吗？”斯万问。

‘No, no,’ said Bergotte, ‘except in the scene where she confesses her passion to Oenone, where she moves her hand exactly like Hegeso on the stele in the Ceramic, it is a far more primitive art that she revives. I was referring to the Korai of the old Erechtheum, and I admit that there is perhaps nothing quite so remote from the art of Racine, but there are so many things already in Phèdre,... that one more... Oh, and then, yes, she is really charming, that little sixth century Phaedra, the rigidity of the arm, the lock of hair ‘frozen into marble,’ yes, you know, it is wonderful of her to have discovered all that. There is a great deal more antiquity in it than in most of the books they are labelling ‘antique’ this year.’
“不，不，”贝戈特说，“除了她向奥埃诺内表白自己的热情的场景，她的手的移动方式与陶瓷石碑上的黑格索一模一样，她复兴的是一种更为原始的艺术。我指的是旧厄瑞克提翁神庙的 Korai，我承认也许没有什么比拉辛的艺术更遥远了，但是 Phèdre 已经有很多东西了，……还有一个……哦，还有然后，是的，她真的很迷人，那个六世纪的小斐德拉，手臂的僵硬，一绺“冻成大理石”的头发，是的，你知道，她发现这一切真是太棒了。与今年他们贴上“古董”标签的大多数书籍相比，这本书里的古董要多得多。

As Bergotte had in one of his volumes addressed a famous invocation to these archaic statues, the words that he was now uttering were quite intelligible to me and gave me a fresh reason for taking an interest in Berma’s acting. I tried to picture her again in my mind, as she had looked in that scene in which I remembered that she had raised her arm to the level of her shoulder. And I said to myself, ‘There we have the Hesperid of Olympia; there we have the sister of those adorable suppliants on the Acropolis; there is indeed nobility in art!’ But if these considerations were to enhance for me the beauty of Berma’s gesture, Bergotte should have put them into my head before the performance. Then, while that attitude of the actress was actually existing in flesh and blood before my eyes, at that moment in which the thing that was happening had still the substance of reality, I might have tried to extract from it the idea of archaic sculpture. But of Berma in that scene all that I retained was a memory which was no longer liable to modification, slender as a picture which lacks that abundant perspective of the present tense where one is free to delve and can always discover something new, a picture to which one cannot retrospectively give a meaning that is not subject to verification and correction from without. At this point Mme. Swann joined in the conversation, asking me whether Gilberte had remembered to give me what Bergotte had written about Phèdre, and adding, ‘My daughter is such a scatter-brain!’ Bergotte smiled modestly and protested that they were only a few pages, of no importance. ‘But it is perfectly charming, that little pamphlet, that little ‘tract’ of yours!’ Mme. Swann assured him, to shew that she was a good hostess, to make the rest of us think that she had read Bergotte’s essay, and also because she liked not merely to flatter Bergotte, but to make a selection for herself out of what he wrote, to control his writing. And it must be admitted that she did inspire him, though not in the way that she supposed. But when all is said there is, between what constituted the smartness of Mme. Swann’s drawing-room and a whole side of Bergotte’s work, so close a correspondence that either of them might serve among elderly men to-day, as a commentary upon the other.
正如贝戈特在他的一本书中对这些古老雕像的著名祈祷一样，他现在所说的话对我来说很容易理解，并给了我对贝尔马的表演感兴趣的新理由。我试图在脑海中再次想象她的样子，就像她在那个场景中的样子，我记得她把手臂举到了肩膀的高度。我对自己说：‘这就是奥林匹亚的赫斯珀丽德；那里有雅典卫城那些可爱的恳求者的妹妹；艺术中确实有高贵！”但如果这些考虑是为了让我增强贝尔玛姿态的美感，贝戈特就应该在表演前把它们灌输到我的脑海里。那么，虽然女演员的态度确实有血有肉地存在于我眼前，但在发生的事情仍然具有现实实质的那一刻，我可能会试图从中提取出古老雕塑的想法。但那个场景中的贝尔玛，我所保留的只是一种不再容易修改的记忆，它像一幅图画一样细长，缺乏现在时态的丰富视角，在这种情况下，人们可以自由地探索，总能发现新的东西，一幅可以让人们自由探索的图画。人们无法追溯地给出一种未经外部验证和纠正的含义。此时女士。斯万加入了谈话，问我吉尔贝特是否记得给我贝戈特写的关于菲德尔的内容，并补充道，“我的女儿真是个头脑不清醒的人！”贝戈特谦虚地微笑着，抗议说这些只有几页，不重要。 “但是你的那本小册子、那本小‘传单’真是太迷人了！” 斯万向他保证，表明她是一位好女主人，让我们其他人认为她读过贝戈特的文章，还因为她不仅喜欢奉承贝戈特，而且喜欢从他写的文章中为自己做出选择，控制他的写作。必须承认，她确实激励了他，尽管不是以她想象的方式。但总而言之，夫人的聪明才智是有的。斯旺的客厅和贝戈特作品的一整面，通信如此密切，以至于他们中的任何一个都可能在今天的老年男性中服务，作为对另一个的评论。

I let myself go in telling him what my impressions had been. Often Bergotte disagreed, but he allowed me to go on talking. I told him that I had liked the green light which was turned on when Phaedra raised her arm. ‘Ah! The designer will be glad to hear that; he is a real artist. I shall tell him you liked it, because he is very proud of that effect. I must say, myself, that I do not care for it very much, it drowns everything in a sort of aqueous vapour, little Phaedra standing there looks too like a branch of coral on the floor of an aquarium. You will tell me, of course, that it brings out the cosmic aspect of the play. That is quite true. All the same, it would be more appropriate if the scene were laid in the Court of Neptune. Oh yes, of course, I know the Vengeance of Neptune does come into the play. I don’t suggest for a moment that we should think only of Port-Royal, but after all the story that Racine tells us is not the ‘Loves of the Sea-Urchins.’ Still, it is what my friend wished to have, and it is very well done, right or wrong, and it’s really quite pretty when you come to look at it. Yes, so you liked that, did you; you understood what it meant, of course; we feel the same about it, don’t we, really; it is a trifle unbalanced, what he’s done, you agree with me, but on the whole it is very clever of him.’ And so, when Bergotte had to express an opinion which was the opposite of my own, he in no way reduced me to silence, to the impossibility of framing any reply, as M. de Norpois would have done. This does not prove that Bergotte’s opinions were of less value than the Ambassador’s; far from it. A powerful idea communicates some of its strength to him who challenges it. Being itself a part of the riches of the universal Mind, it makes its way into, grafts itself upon the mind of him whom it is employed to refute, slips in among the ideas already there, with the help of which, gaining a little ground, he completes and corrects it; so that the final utterance is always to some extent the work of both parties to a discussion. It is to ideas which are not, properly speaking, ideas at all, to ideas which, founded upon nothing, can find no support, no kindred spirit among the ideas of the adversary, that he, grappling with something which is not there, can find no word to say in answer. The arguments of M. de Norpois (in the matter of art) were unanswerable simply because they were without reality.
我畅所欲言地告诉他我的印象。贝戈特经常不同意，但他允许我继续说下去。我告诉他我喜欢菲德拉举起手臂时亮起的绿灯。 '啊！设计师会很高兴听到这个消息；他是一位真正的艺术家。我会告诉他你喜欢它，因为他对这种效果感到非常自豪。我自己必须说，我不太关心它，它把一切都淹没在一种水蒸气中，站在那里的小菲德拉看起来太像水族馆地板上的珊瑚树枝。当然，你会告诉我，它展现了这部剧的宇宙方面。这是千真万确的。尽管如此，如果把场景放在海王星法庭上会更合适。哦，是的，当然，我知道海王星的复仇确实出现在剧中。我暂时不建议我们只考虑皇家港，但毕竟拉辛告诉我们的故事不是“海胆之恋”。尽管如此，这仍然是我朋友希望拥有的，不管是对还是错，它都做得很好，当你来看它时，它真的很漂亮。是的，所以你喜欢这样，是吗？当然，你明白这意味着什么；我们对此也有同样的感觉，不是吗？他所做的有点不平衡，你同意我的观点，但总的来说，他非常聪明。”因此，当贝戈特不得不表达与我相反的观点时，他丝毫没有减少我沉默了，无法做出任何答复，就像德·诺普瓦先生会做的那样。这并不能证明贝戈特的意见不如大使的意见；离得很远。一个强大的想法会将其部分力量传达给挑战它的人。 作为普遍心灵财富的一部分，它进入并嫁接在它用来驳斥的人的心灵上，融入到已经存在的观念之中，在这些观念的帮助下，取得了一点进展。 ，他完成并改正；所以说最终的话语在某种程度上总是需要双方共同商讨的。确切地说，那些根本不是想法的想法，那些没有任何基础、无法在对手的想法中找到支持、没有志同道合的想法的想法，他在与不存在的东西搏斗时，可以找不到言语来回答。德·诺普瓦先生（在艺术问题上）的论点是无法反驳的，因为它们不符合现实。

Since Bergotte did not sweep aside my objections, I confessed to him that they had won the scorn of M. de Norpois. ‘But he’s an old parrot!’ was the answer. ‘He keeps on pecking you because he imagines all the time that you’re a piece of cake, or a slice of cuttle-fish.’ ‘What’s that?’ asked Swann. ‘Are you a friend of Norpois?’ ‘He’s as dull as a wet Sunday,’ interrupted his wife, who had great faith in Bergotte’s judgment, and was no doubt afraid that M. de Norpois might have spoken ill of her to us. ‘I tried to make him talk after dinner; I don’t know if it’s his age or his indigestion, but I found him too sticky for words. I really thought I should have to ‘dope’ him.’ ‘Yes, isn’t he?’ Bergotte chimed in. ‘You see, he has to keep his mouth shut half the time so as not to use up all the stock of inanities that hold his shirt-front down and his white waistcoat up.’ ‘I think that Bergotte and my wife are both very hard on him,’ came from Swann, who took the ‘line,’ in his own house, of a plain, sensible man. ‘I quite see that Norpois cannot interest you very much, but from another point of view,’ (for Swann made a hobby of collecting scraps of ‘real life’) ‘he is quite remarkable, quite a remarkable instance of a lover. When he was Secretary at Rome,’ he went on, after making sure that Gilberte could not hear him, ‘he had, here in Paris, a mistress with whom he was madly in love, and he found time to make the double journey every week, so as to see her for a couple of hours. She was, as it happens, a most intelligent woman, and is quite attractive to this day; she is a dowager now. And he has had any number of others since then. I’m sure I should have gone stark mad if the woman I was in love with lived in Paris and I was kept shut up in Rome. Nervous men ought always to love, as the lower orders say, ‘beneath’ them, so that their women have a material inducement to do what they tell them.’ As he spoke, Swann realised that I might be applying this maxim to himself and Odette, and as, even among superior beings, at the moment when you and they seem to be soaring together above the plane of life, their personal pride is still basely human, he was seized by a violent ill-will towards me. But this was made manifest only in the uneasiness of his glance. He said nothing more to me at the time. Not that this need surprise us. When Racine (according to a story the truth of which has been exploded, though the theme of it may be found recurring every day in Parisian life) made an illusion to Scarron in front of Louis XIV, the most powerful monarch on earth said nothing to the poet that evening. It was on the following day, only, that he fell.
既然贝戈特没有消除我的反对意见，我就向他承认，他们遭到了德·诺布瓦先生的蔑视。 “但他是一只老鹦鹉！”这是答案。 “他一直啄你，因为他一直把你想象成一块蛋糕，或者一片墨鱼。” “那是什么？”斯旺问。 “你是诺普瓦的朋友吗？” “他就像潮湿的星期天一样沉闷，”他的妻子打断了他的话，她对贝戈特的判断很有信心，毫无疑问，她担心德·诺普瓦先生可能会在我们面前说她的坏话。 “晚饭后我试图让他说话；我不知道是因为他的年龄还是消化不良，但我发现他太粘人了，说不出话来。 “是的，不是吗？”贝戈特插话道。“你看，他必须有一半的时间闭嘴，以免用完所有的库存。” “我认为贝戈特和我的妻子对他都非常严厉，”斯万说道，他在自己的房子里采取了“路线”，穿着朴素的衣服。 ，明智的人。 “我确实明白诺普瓦对你不太感兴趣，但从另一个角度来看，”（因为斯旺有收集“现实生活”碎片的爱好）“他非常了不起，是一个非常了不起的情人实例。当他在罗马担任秘书时，”他在确保吉尔贝特听不到他的声音后继续说道，“他在巴黎这里有一位他疯狂地爱着的情妇，他每天都会抽出时间进行两次旅行。一周，以便能见到她几个小时。碰巧，她是一位最聪明的女人，至今仍颇具吸引力。她现在是太后了。从那时起，他还有过很多其他人。我确信，如果我所爱的女人住在巴黎，而我却被关在罗马，我一定会发疯的。 正如下层人士所说，紧张的男人应该总是爱“在他们之下”，这样他们的女人就有物质上的诱因去做他们告诉他们的事情。”当他说话时，斯旺意识到我可能会把这句格言应用到他自己身上奥黛特，即使在高等生物中，当你和他们似乎一起翱翔在生命层面之上时，他们的个人骄傲仍然是卑鄙的人类，他对我充满了强烈的敌意。但这仅从他眼神中的不安中可见一斑。当时他没有再对我说什么。这并不需要让我们感到惊讶。当拉辛（根据一个故事，其真相已被揭穿，尽管其主题可能每天在巴黎生活中反复出现）在路易十四面前向斯卡隆制造幻觉时，地球上最强大的君主什么也没说。那天晚上的诗人。就在第二天，他摔倒了。

But as a theory requires to be stated as a whole, Swann, after this momentary irritation, and after wiping his eyeglass, finished saying what was in his mind in these words, words which were to assume later on in my memory the importance of a prophetic warning, which I had not had the sense to take: ‘The danger of that kind of love, however, is that the woman’s subjection calms the man’s jealousy for a time but also makes it more exacting. After a little he will force his mistress to live like one of those prisoners whose cells they keep lighted day and night, to prevent their escaping. And that generally ends in trouble.’
但作为一个理论需要作为一个整体来陈述，斯万在这短暂的恼怒之后，在擦了擦眼镜之后，用这些话说出了他心中的想法，这些话后来在我的记忆中承担了一个重要的意义。预言性的警告，我没有意识到：“然而，这种爱的危险在于，女人的服从会暂时平息男人的嫉妒，但也会使其变得更加严格。”过了一会儿，他会强迫他的情妇像那些囚犯一样生活，他们的牢房日夜都亮着灯，以防止他们逃跑。这通常会带来麻烦。

I reverted to M. de Norpois. ‘You must never trust him; he has the most wicked tongue!’ said Mme. Swann in an accent which seemed to me to indicate that M. de Norpois had been ‘saying things’ about her, especially as Swann looked across at his wife with an air of rebuke, as though to stop her before she went too far.
我又转向德·诺普瓦先生。 ‘你绝对不能相信他；他的舌头最恶毒！”夫人说。斯旺的口音在我看来表明德·诺普瓦先生一直在“谈论”她，尤其是当斯旺用责备的神情看着他的妻子时，似乎在她走得太远之前阻止她。

Meanwhile Gilberte, who had been told to go and get ready for our drive, stayed to listen to the conversation, and hovered between her mother and her father, leaning affectionately against his shoulder. Nothing, at first sight, could be in greater contrast to Mme. Swann, who was dark, than this child with her red hair and golden skin. But after looking at them both for a moment one saw in Gilberte many of the features—for instance, the nose cut short with a sharp, unfaltering decision by the unseen sculptor whose chisel repeats its work upon successive generations—the expression, the movements of her mother; to take an illustration from another form of art, she made one think of a portrait that was not a good likeness of Mme. Swann, whom the painter, to carry out some whim of colouring, had posed in a partial disguise, dressed to go out to a party in Venetian ‘character.’ And as not merely was she wearing a fair wig, but every atom of a swarthier complexion had been discharged from her flesh which, stripped of its veil of brownness, seemed more naked, covered simply in rays of light shed by an internal sun, this ‘make-up’ was not just superficial but was incarnate in her; Gilberte had the appearance of embodying some fabulous animal or of having assumed a mythological disguise. This reddish skin was so exactly that of her father that nature seemed to have had, when Gilberte was being created, to solve the problem of how to reconstruct Mme. Swann piecemeal, without any material at her disposal save the skin of M. Swann. And nature had utilised this to perfection, like a master carver who makes a point of leaving the grain, the knots of his wood in evidence. On Gilberte’s face, at the corner of a perfect reproduction of Odette’s nose, the skin was raised so as to preserve intact the two beauty spots of M. Swann. It was a new variety ot Mme. Swann that was thus obtained, growing there by her side like a white lilac-tree beside a purple. At the same time it did not do to imagine the boundary line between these two likenesses as definitely fixed. Now and then, when Gilberte smiled, one could distinguish the oval of her father’s cheek upon her mother’s face, as though some one had mixed them together to see what would result from the blend; this oval grew distinct, as an embryo grows into a living shape, it lengthened obliquely, expanded, and a moment later had disappeared. In Gilberte’s eyes there was the frank and honest gaze of her father; this was how she had looked at me when she gave me the agate marble and said, ‘Keep it, to remind yourself of our friendship.’ But were one to put a question to Gilberte, to ask her what she had been doing, then one saw in those same eyes the embarrassment, the uncertainty, the prevarication, the misery that Odette used in the old days to shew, when Swann asked her where she had been and she gave him one of those lying answers which, in those days, drove the lover to despair and now made him abruptly change the conversation, as an incurious and prudent husband. Often in the Champs-Elysées I was disturbed by seeing this look on Gilberte’s face. But as a rule my fears were unfounded. For in her, a purely physical survival of her mother, this look (if nothing else) had ceased to have any meaning. It was when she had been to her classes, when she must go home for some lesson, that Gilberte’s pupils executed that movement which, in time past, in the eyes of Odette, had been caused by the fear of disclosing that she had, during the day, opened the door to one of her lovers, or was—at that moment in a hurry to be at some trysting-place. So one could see the two natures of M. and Mme. Swann ebb and flow, encroaching alternately one upon the other in the body of this Mélusine.
与此同时，吉尔贝特被告知要为我们的车程做好准备，她留下来听谈话，并徘徊在她父母之间，深情地靠在他的肩膀上。乍一看，没有什么比夫人更鲜明的对比了。肤色黝黑的斯旺，比这个红头发、金色皮肤的孩子还要好。但是，在对他们两人看了一会儿之后，人们在希尔贝特身上看到了许多特征——例如，那位看不见的雕刻家以锐利、坚定的决定将鼻子剪短了，他的凿子在后代中重复了它的工作——表情、动作她妈妈;为了从另一种艺术形式中获取插图，她让人想起一幅与夫人不太相似的肖像。斯万，画家为了实现一些突发奇想的色彩，对她进行了部分伪装，打扮成威尼斯“性格”去参加一个聚会。黝黑的肤色已经从她的肉体上消失了，剥去了棕色的面纱，看起来更加赤裸，只是被内在的太阳照射出的光芒所覆盖，这种“化妆”不仅仅是表面上的，而是体现在她身上的；希尔贝特看起来像是某种神话动物的化身，或者是化身为神话中的伪装。这种微红的皮肤与她父亲的皮肤一模一样，以至于在创造希尔贝特时，大自然似乎就已经拥有了这样的皮肤，以解决如何重建夫人的问题。斯旺一点一点地，除了斯旺先生的皮肤之外，没有任何可用的材料。大自然将这一点发挥得淋漓尽致，就像雕刻大师特意留下木材的纹理和节疤一样。 吉尔贝特的脸上，完美复制了奥黛特鼻子的一角，皮肤被抬起，以完整地保留斯旺先生的两个美斑。这是夫人的一个新品种。斯旺就是这样得到的，长在她身边，就像一棵白色的丁香树和一棵紫色的丁香树一样。同时，想象这两种相似性之间的界限是绝对固定的也是不可行的。时不时地，当希尔贝特微笑时，人们可以在她母亲的脸上分辨出她父亲脸颊的椭圆形，仿佛有人将它们混合在一起，看看混合后会产生什么结果；这个椭圆形变得清晰起来，随着胚胎成长为活体形状，它倾斜地拉长，扩大，片刻之后就消失了。希尔贝特的眼里有着父亲那样坦率、诚实的目光。当她把玛瑙大理石交给我并说：“保留它，提醒自己我们的友谊。”她就是这样看着我的。但是如果有人向希尔贝特提出问题，问她一直在做什么，那么人们从那双眼睛里看到了过去奥黛特所表现出的尴尬、不确定、搪塞和痛苦，当斯旺问她去了哪里，她给了他一个撒谎的答案，在那些日子里，让情人陷入绝望，现在让他突然改变话题，成为一个冷漠而谨慎的丈夫。在香榭丽舍大街上，我常常因为看到希尔贝特脸上的这种表情而感到不安。但总的来说，我的担心是没有根据的。因为对于她来说，这个纯粹是她母亲的肉体遗存，这种外表（如果没有别的的话）已经不再具有任何意义。 当她去上课时，当她必须回家上课时，吉尔贝特的学生做出了这样的动作，在过去，在奥黛特看来，这是由于害怕透露她在上课期间的行为而引起的。那天，她向她的一位情人打开了门，或者是——在那一刻，她正急着去某个幽会的地方。由此可见M.和Mme的两种性格。斯旺潮起潮落，交替侵蚀梅卢辛的身体。

It is, of course, common knowledge that a child takes after both its-father and its mother. And yet the distribution of the merits and defects which it inherits is so oddly planned that, of two good qualities which seemed inseparable in one of the parents you will find but one in the child, and allied to that very fault in the other parent which seemed most irreconcilable with it. Indeed, the incarnation of a good moral quality in an incompatible physical blemish is often one of the laws of filial resemblance. Of two sisters, one will combine with the proud bearing of her father the mean little soul of her mother; the other, abundantly endowed with the paternal intelligence, will present it to the world in the aspect which her mother has made familiar; her mother’s shapeless nose and scraggy bosom are become the bodily covering of talents which you had learned to distinguish beneath a superb presence. With the result that of each of the sisters one can say with equal justification that it is she who takes more after one or other of her parents. It is true that Gilberte was an only child, but there were, at the least, two Gilbertes. The two natures, her father’s and her mother’s, did more than just blend themselves in her; they disputed the possession of her—and yet one cannot exactly say that, which would let it be thought that a third Gilberte was in the meantime suffering by being the prey of the two others. Whereas Gilberte was alternately one and the other, and at any given moment no more than one of the two, that is to say incapable, when she was not being good, of suffering accordingly, the better Gilberte not being able at the time, on account of her momentary absence, to detect the other’s lapse from virtue. And so the less good of the two was free to enjoy pleasures of an ignoble kind. When the other spoke to you from the heart of her father, she held broad views, you would have liked to engage with her upon a fine and beneficent enterprise; you told her so, but, just as your arrangements were being completed, her mother’s heart would already have resumed its control; hers was the voice that answered; and you were disappointed and vexed—almost baffled, as in the face of a substitution of one person for another—by an unworthy thought, an insincere laugh, in which Gilberte saw no harm, for they sprang from what she herself at that moment was. Indeed, the disparity was at times so great between these two Gilbertes that you asked yourself, though without finding an answer, what on earth you could have said or done to her, last time, to find her now so different. When she herself had arranged to meet you somewhere, not only did she fail to appear, and offer no excuse afterwards, but, whatever the influence might have been that had made her change her mind, she shewed herself in so different a character when you did meet her that you might well have supposed that, taken in by a likeness such as forms the plot of the Menaechmi, you were now talking to some one not the person who had so politely expressed her desire to see you, had she not shewn signs of an ill-humour which revealed that she felt herself to be in the wrong, and wished to avoid the necessity of an explanation.
当然，众所周知，孩子既像父亲又像母亲。然而，孩子所继承的优点和缺点的分配却是如此奇怪，以至于在父母一方身上似乎不可分割的两种优良品质中，你会在孩子身上发现只有一种，而这两种优良品质却与父母另一方身上的错误结合在一起。似乎是最不可调和的。事实上，良好的道德品质在不相容的身体缺陷中的化身往往是孝道相似的法则之一。两姐妹中，其中一个将她父亲的骄傲气质与母亲的卑鄙小灵魂结合在一起；另一个则将她父亲的骄傲与母亲的卑鄙性格结合在一起。另一个则拥有父亲般的智慧，将以她母亲所熟悉的方式呈现给世界。她母亲那不成形的鼻子和粗糙的胸部变成了身体上的才华的掩饰，你已经学会在出色的外表下辨别出这些才华。其结果是，对于姐妹中的每一位，我们都可以同样有理由地说，她比她的父母中的一位或另一位继承得更多。吉尔贝特确实是独生子，但吉尔贝特至少有两个。她父亲和母亲的两种天性不仅在她身上融为一体，而且在她身上融为一体。他们对她的占有权存在争议——但我们不能准确地说出这一点，否则会让人认为第三个希尔贝特同时也因成为另外两个人的猎物而受苦。而希尔贝特交替地是其中之一，并且在任何特定时刻都不过是两者之一，也就是说，当她表现不佳时，她无法相应地承受痛苦，更好的是，希尔贝特当时无法，在记录她短暂的缺席，以发现对方的失德。 因此，两个人中不太善良的人可以自由地享受不光彩的快乐。当对方以她父亲的心声对你说话时，她有着广阔的视野，你会愿意与她一起从事一项美好而仁慈的事业；你是这么告诉她的，可是，当你的安排刚刚完成时，她母亲的心就已经恢复了控制；回答的是她的声音；你感到失望和烦恼——几乎感到困惑，就像面对一个人替换另一个人时——一种不值得的想法，一种不真诚的笑声，希尔贝特认为这没有什么坏处，因为它们源于她当时的身份。 。事实上，这两个吉尔贝特之间的差距有时是如此之大，以至于你问自己，尽管没有找到答案，你到底可以对她说些什么或做什么，最后发现她现在如此不同。当她自己约好在某个地方与你见面时，她不仅没有出现，事后也没有提出任何借口，而且，无论是什么影响使她改变了主意，当你与你见面时，她表现出了如此不同的性格。如果你确实遇见了她，你很可能会认为，你现在正在和一个人说话，如果她没有表现出来，你现在正在和一个人说话，而不是那个如此礼貌地表达了她希望见到你的人。心情不好的迹象表明她觉得自己错了，并希望避免解释的必要性。

‘Now then, run along and get ready; you’re keeping us waiting,’ her mother reminded her.
“那么，快跑吧，做好准备吧；你让我们久等了。”她妈妈提醒她。

‘I’m so happy here with my little Papa; I want to stay just for a minute,’ replied Gilberte, burying her head beneath the arm of her father, who passed his fingers lovingly through her bright hair.
“我和我的小爸爸在这里很开心； “我想待一会儿。”希尔贝特回答道，她把头埋在父亲的臂弯里，父亲用手指慈爱地抚摸着她明亮的头发。

Swann was one of those men who, having lived for a long time amid the illusions of love, have seen the prosperity that they themselves brought to numberless women increase the happiness of those women without exciting in them any gratitude, any tenderness towards their benefactors; but in their child they believe that they can feel an affection which, being incarnate in their own name, will enable them to remain in the world after their death. When there should no longer be any Charles Swann, there would still be a Mlle. Swann, or a Mme. something-else, née Swann, who would continue to love the vanished father. Indeed, to love him too well, perhaps, Swann may have been thinking, for he acknowledged Gilberte’s caress with a ‘Good girl!’ in that tone, made tender by our apprehension, to which, when we think of the future, we are prompted by the too passionate affection of a creature who is destined to survive us. To conceal his emotion, he joined in our talk about Berma. He pointed out to me, but in a detached, a listless tone, as though he wished to remain to some extent unconcerned in what he was saying, with what intelligence, with what an astonishing fitness the actress said to Oenone, ‘You knew it!’ He was right. That intonation at least had a value that was really intelligible, and might therefore have satisfied my desire to find incontestable reasons for admiring Berma. But it was by the very fact of its clarity that it did not at all content me. Her intonation was so ingenious, so definite in intention and in its meaning, that it seemed to exist by itself, so that any intelligent actress might have learned to use it. It was a fine idea; but whoever else should conceive it as fully must possess it equally. It remained to Berma’s credit that she had discovered it, but is one entitled to use the word ‘discover’ when the object in question is something that would not be different if one had been given it, something that does not belong essentially to one’s own nature seeing that some one else may afterwards reproduce it?
斯旺是这样的男人之一，他们长期生活在爱情的幻想中，看到自己为无数女人带来的繁荣增加了这些女人的幸福，却没有激起她们对恩人的任何感激和温柔；但他们相信，在他们的孩子身上，他们能够感受到一种感情，这种感情以他们自己的名义化身，将使他们在死后能够留在这个世界上。当查尔斯·斯旺不再存在时，仍然会有一位女士。斯旺，或者一位女士。还有别的东西，娘家姓斯旺，她会继续爱着失踪的父亲。事实上，斯旺可能一直在想，也许是爱他太深了，因为他用“好女孩！”的语气承认了希尔贝特的爱抚，这种语气因我们的忧虑而变得温柔，当我们想到未来时，我们对这种忧虑感到温柔。是由于一种注定会比我们活下去的生物过于热情的感情所促使的。为了掩饰自己的情绪，他加入了我们关于贝尔马的谈话。他用一种超然、无精打采的语气向我指出，似乎他希望在某种程度上对自己所说的话保持漠不关心，这位女演员以多么聪明、多么惊人的健康对奥埃诺说：“你知道的。” ！' 他是对的。这种语调至少具有真正可以理解的价值，因此可能满足了我寻找无可争议的理由来欣赏贝尔玛的愿望。但正是由于它的清晰性，它根本不能令我满意。她的语调是如此巧妙，意图和意义如此明确，以至于它似乎是独立存在的，因此任何聪明的女演员都可以学会使用它。这是个好主意；但任何其他人如果认为它是完全的，就必须同等地拥有它。 贝尔玛发现了它，这仍然是她的功劳，但当所讨论的物体是一个如果给了它就不会有所不同的东西，一个本质上不属于一个人自己的东西时，一个人有权使用“发现”这个词。大自然看到其他人可能会复制它吗？

‘Upon my soul, your presence among us does raise the tone of the conversation!’ Swann observed to me, as though to excuse himself to Bergotte; for he had formed the habit, in the Guermantes set, of entertaining great artists as if they were just ordinary friends whom one seeks only to make eat the dishes that they like, play the games, or, in the country, indulge in whatever form of sport they please. ‘It seems to me that we’re talking a great deal of art,’ he went on. ‘But it’s so nice, I do love it!’ said Mme. Swann, throwing me a look of gratitude, as well from good nature as because she had not abandoned her old aspirations towards a more intellectual form of conversation. After this it was to others of the party, and principally to Gilberte, that Bergotte addressed himself. I had told him everything that I felt with a freedom which had astonished me, and was due to the fact that, having acquired with him, years before (in the course of all those hours of solitary reading, in which he was to me merely the better part of myself), the habit of sincerity, of frankness, of confidence, I was less frightened by him than by a person with whom I should have been talking for the first time. And yet, for the same reason, I was greatly disturbed by the thought of the impression that I must have been making on him, the contempt that I had supposed he would feel for my ideas dating not from that afternoon but from the already distant time in which I had begun to read his books in our garden at Combray. And yet I ought perhaps to have reminded myself that, since it was in all sincerity, abandoning myself to the train of my thoughts, that I had felt, on the one hand, so intensely in sympathy with the work of Bergotte and on the other hand, in the theatre, a disappointment the reason of which I did not know, those two instinctive movements which had both carried me away could not be so very different from one another, but must be obedient to the same laws; and that that mind of Bergotte which I had loved in his books could not be anything entirely foreign and hostile to my disappointment and to my inability to express it. For my intelligence must be a uniform thing, perhaps indeed there exists but a single intelligence, in which everyone in the world participates, towards which each of us from the position of his own separate body turns his eyes, as in a theatre where, if everyone has his own separate seat, there is on the other hand but a single stage. Of course, the ideas which I was tempted to seek to disentangle were probably not those whose depths Bergotte usually sounded in his books. But if it were one and the same intelligence which we had, he and I, at our disposal, he must, when he heard me express those ideas, be reminded of them, cherish them, smile upon them, keeping probably, in spite of what I supposed, before his mind’s eye a whole world of intelligence other than that an excerpt of which had passed into his books, an excerpt upon which I had based my imagination of his whole mental universe. Just as priests, having the widest experience of the human heart, are best able to pardon the sins which they do not themselves commit, so genius, having the widest experience of the human intelligence, can best understand the ideas most directly in opposition to those which form the foundation of its own writings. I ought to have told myself all this (though, for that matter, it was none too consoling a thought, for the benevolent condescension of great minds has as a corollary the incomprehension and hostility of small; and one derives far less happiness from the friendliness of a great writer, which one finds expressed, failing a more intimate association, in his books, than suffering from the hostility of a woman whom one did not choose for her intelligence but cannot help loving). I ought to have told myself all this, but I did not; I was convinced that I had appeared a fool to Bergotte, when Gilberte whispered in my ear:
“以我的灵魂起誓，你在我们中间确实提高了谈话的语气！”斯万对我说道，仿佛是在向贝戈特道歉；因为他养成了盖尔芒特家的习惯，招待伟大的艺术家就好像他们只是普通朋友一样，人们只想让他们吃他们喜欢的菜肴，玩游戏，或者在乡村，沉迷于任何形式他们喜欢的运动。 “在我看来，我们正在谈论很多艺术，”他继续说道。 “但是它太棒了，我真的很喜欢它！”夫人说。斯旺向我投来了感激的目光，这既是出于善意，也是因为她没有放弃她对更加理智的对话形式的古老愿望。此后，贝戈特向党内其他人，尤其是吉尔贝特发表了讲话。我以一种令我惊讶的自由度告诉了他我所感受到的一切，这是因为，几年前我和他一起获得了（在所有这些小时的孤独阅读过程中，其中他对我来说只是我自己的更好的部分），真诚、坦率、自信的习惯，我对他的恐惧比对一个我应该第一次交谈的人的恐惧要少。然而，出于同样的原因，我对我一定给他留下的印象感到非常不安，我以为他会对我的想法感到蔑视，这些想法不是来自那天下午，而是来自已经很遥远的时间我开始在贡布雷的花园里读他的书。 然而，我也许应该提醒自己，既然我是出于真诚，全心全意地思考，我一方面对贝戈特的作品深感同情，另一方面另一方面，在剧院里，一种我不知道其原因的失望，这两种使我着迷的本能运动不可能彼此有很大不同，但必须服从相同的规律；我在贝戈特的书中所喜爱的那种思想不可能是完全陌生的，也不可能对我的失望和我无法表达的失望怀有敌意。因为我的智慧必定是一个统一的东西，也许确实只存在一个单一的智慧，世界上每个人都参与其中，我们每个人都从他自己独立的身体的位置转向它的眼睛，就像在剧院里一样，如果每个人都有自己单独的座位，但另一方面却只有一个舞台。当然，我试图解开的想法可能并不是贝戈特在他的书中通常听起来那么深刻的想法。但是，如果他和我所拥有的智力是同一种智力，可供我们使用，那么当他听到我表达这些想法时，他一定会想起它们，珍惜它们，对它们微笑，可能会保留它们，尽管我猜想，在他的脑海中，存在着一个完整的智慧世界，除了其中的摘录已经进入他的书之外，我对他的整个精神世界的想象也基于这个摘录。 正如牧师对人类心灵有着最广泛的经验，最有能力宽恕他们自己没有犯下的罪过一样，天才对人类的智慧有最广泛的经验，最能理解与这些思想最直接相反的思想。这些构成了其自己著作的基础。我应该告诉自己这一切（不过，就这一点而言，这并不能算是一种安慰，因为伟人的仁慈屈尊必然会带来小人物的不理解和敌意；而一个人从友善中获得的幸福要少得多）一位伟大作家的经历，人们在他的书中发现，与遭受一个女人的敌意相比，他在他的书中没有表现出更亲密的联系，人们不是因为她的智慧而选择她，但却情不自禁地爱着她）。 我本应该告诉自己这一切，但我没有；当吉尔贝特在我耳边低语时，我确信我在贝戈特看来是个傻瓜：

‘You can’t think how delighted I am, because you have made a conquest of my great friend Bergotte. He’s been telling Mamma that he found you extremely intelligent.’
“你无法想象我有多高兴，因为你征服了我的好朋友贝戈特。他一直告诉妈妈，他发现你非常聪明。”

‘Where are we going?’ I asked her. ‘Oh, wherever you like; you know, it’s all the same to me.’ But since the incident that had occurred on the anniversary of her grandfather’s death I had begun to ask myself whether Gilberte’s character was not other than I had supposed, whether that indifference to what was to be done, that wisdom, that calm, that gentle and constant submission did not indeed conceal passionate longings which her self-esteem would not allow to be visible and which she disclosed only by her sudden resistance whenever by any chance they were frustrated. As Bergotte lived in the same neighbourhood as my parents, we left the house together; in the carriage he spoke to me of my health. ‘Our friends were telling me that you had been ill. I am very sorry. And yet, after all, I am not too sorry, because I can see quite well that you are able to enjoy the pleasures of the mind, and they are probably what mean most to you, as to everyone who has known them.’
“我们要去哪里？”我问她。 ‘哦，无论你喜欢哪里；你知道，这对我来说都是一样的。”但自从她祖父忌日纪念日发生的那件事之后，我开始问自己，希尔贝特的性格是否与我想象的不同，是否对未来的事情漠不关心。那样的智慧、那样的冷静、那样的温柔和始终如一的顺服，并没有掩盖她的自尊不允许她表现出强烈的渴望，而每当这些渴望受到挫败时，她只会通过突然的抵抗来揭露这种渴望。由于贝戈特和我父母住在同一个街区，所以我们一起离开了家。在马车上他向我讲述了我的健康状况。 “我们的朋友告诉我你病了。我很抱歉。然而，毕竟，我并不太遗憾，因为我很清楚地看到你能够享受心灵的快乐，而且它们可能对你和每个认识它们的人来说最重要。

Alas, what he was saying, how little, I felt, did it apply to myself, whom all reasoning, however exalted it might be, left cold, who was happy only in moments of pure idleness, when I was comfortable and well; I felt how purely material was everything that I desired in life, and how easily I could dispense with the intellect. As I made no distinction among my pleasures between those that came to me from different sources, of varying depth and permanence, I was thinking, when the moment came to answer him, that I should have liked an existence in which I was on intimate terms with the Duchesse de Guermantes, and often came across, as in the old toll-house in the Champs-Elysées, a chilly smell that would remind me of Combray. But in this ideal existence which I dared not confide to him the pleasures of the mind found no place.
唉，我觉得他所说的话对我自己来说是多么微不足道，所有的推理，无论多么崇高，都被冷落了，只有在纯粹闲散的时刻，当我感到舒适和健康时，我才感到快乐；我感到生活中我所渴望的一切是多么纯粹的物质，我可以多么容易地放弃智力。由于我对来自不同来源、不同深度和持久性的快乐没有区别，所以当我回答他的时候，我在想，我应该喜欢一种与我关系亲密的存在。与盖尔芒特公爵夫人在一起，经常闻到一股冰冷的气味，就像在香榭丽舍大街的老收费站里一样，这让我想起贡布雷。但在我不敢向他吐露的这种理想的存在中，心灵的快乐找不到立足之地。

‘No, sir, the pleasures of the mind count for very little with me; it is not them that I seek after; indeed I don’t even know that I have ever tasted them.’
“不，先生，精神上的快乐对我来说毫无意义；我寻找的不是他们；事实上，我什至不知道我曾经尝过它们。

‘You really think not?’ he replied. ‘Well, it may be, no, wait a minute now, yes, after all that must be what you like best, I can see it now clearly, I am certain of it.’
“你真的不这么认为吗？”他回答道。 “嗯，可能是，不，等一下，是的，毕竟那一定是你最喜欢的，我现在可以清楚地看到它，我确信这一点。”

As certainly, he did not succeed in convincing me; and yet I was already feeling happier, less restricted. After what M. de Norpois had said to me, I had regarded my moments of dreaming, of enthusiasm, of self-confidence as purely subjective and barren of truth. But according to Bergotte, who appeared to understand my case, it seemed that it was quite the contrary, that the symptom I ought to disregard was, in fact, my doubts, my disgust with myself. Moreover, what he had said about M. de Norpois took most of the sting out of a sentence from which I had supposed that no appeal was possible.
当然，他没能成功说服我。然而我已经感到更快乐，更少的限制。德·诺普瓦先生对我说了这番话后，我认为我的梦想、热情和自信的时刻纯粹是主观的，毫无真相。但根据贝戈特（他似乎理解我的情况）的说法，情况似乎恰恰相反，我应该忽视的症状实际上是我的怀疑，我对自己的厌恶。此外，他对德·诺普瓦先生的评价消除了我原以为不可能提出上诉的判决中的大部分刺痛。

‘Are you being properly looked after?’ Bergotte asked me. ‘Who is treating you?’ I told him that I had seen, and should probably go on seeing, Cottard. ‘But that’s not at all the sort of man you want!’ he told me. ‘I know nothing about him as a doctor. But I’ve met him at Mme. Swann’s. The man’s an imbecile. Even supposing that that doesn’t prevent his being a good doctor, which I hesitate to believe, it does prevent his being a good doctor for artists, for men of intelligence. People like you must have suitable doctors, I would almost go so far as to say treatment and medicines specially adapted to themselves. Cottard will bore you, and that alone will prevent his treatment from having any effect. Besides, the proper course of treatment cannot possibly be the same for you as for any Tom, Dick or Harry. Nine tenths of the ills from which intelligent people suffer spring from their intellect. They need at least a doctor who understands their disease. How do you expect that Cottard should be able to treat you, he has made allowances for the difficulty of digesting sauces, for gastric trouble, but he has made no allowance for the effect of reading Shakespeare. So that his calculations are inaccurate in your case, the balance is upset; you see, always the little bottle-imp bobbing up again. He will find that you have a dilated stomach; he has no need to examine you for it, since he has it already in his eye. You can see it there, reflected in his glasses.’ This manner of speaking tired me greatly; I said to myself, with the stupidity of common sense: ‘There is no more any dilated stomach reflected in Professor Cottard’s glasses than there are inanities stored behind the white waistcoat of M. de Norpois.’ ‘I should recommend you, instead,’ went on Bergotte, ‘to consult Dr. du Boulbon, who is quite an intelligent man.’ ‘He is a great admirer of your books,’ I replied. I saw that Bergotte knew this, and I decided that kindred spirits soon come together, that one has few really ‘unknown friends.’ What Bergotte had said to me with respect to Cottard impressed me, while running contrary to everything that I myself believed. I was in no way disturbed by finding my doctor a bore; I expected of him that, thanks to an art the laws of which were beyond me, he should pronounce on the subject of my health an infallible oracle, after consultation of my entrails. And I did not at all require that, with the aid of an intellect, in which I easily outstripped him, he should seek to understand my intellect, which I pictured to myself merely as a means, of no importance in itself, of trying to attain to certain external verities. I doubted greatly whether intellectual people required a different form of hygiene from imbeciles, and I was quite prepared to submit myself to the latter kind. ‘I’ll tell you who does need a good doctor, and that is our friend Swann,’ said Bergotte. And on my asking whether he was ill, ‘Well, don’t you see, he’s typical of the man who has married a whore, and has to swallow a hundred serpents every day, from women who refuse to meet his wife, or men who were there before him. You can see them in his mouth, writhing. Just look, any day you’re there, at the way he lifts his eyebrows when he comes in, to see who’s in the room.’ The malice with which Bergotte spoke thus to a stranger of the friends in whose house he had so long been received as a welcome guest was as new to me as the almost amorous tone which, in that house, he had constantly been adopting to speak to them. Certainly a person like my great-aunt, for instance, would have been incapable of treating any of us with that politeness which I had heard Bergotte lavishing upon Swann. Even to the people whom she liked, she enjoyed saying disagreeable things. But behind their backs she would never have uttered a word to which they might not have listened. There was nothing less like the social ‘world’ than our society at Combray. The Swanns’ house marked a stage on the way towards it, towards its inconstant tide. If they had not yet reached the open sea, they were certainly in the lagoon. ‘This is all between ourselves,’ said Bergotte as he left me outside my own door. A few years later I should have answered: ‘I never repeat things.’ That is the ritual phrase of society, from which the slanderer always derives a false reassurance. It is what I should have said then and there to Bergotte, for one does not invent all one’s speeches, especially when one is acting merely as a card in the social pack. But I did not yet know the formula. What my great-aunt, on the other hand, would have said on a similar occasion was: ‘If you don’t wish it to be repeated, why do you say it?’ That is the answer of the unsociable, of the quarrelsome. I was nothing of that sort: I bowed my head in silence.
“你受到适当的照顾吗？”贝戈特问我。 “谁在给你治病？”我告诉他我见过科塔尔，而且很可能应该继续见到他。 “但这根本不是你想要的那种人！”他告诉我。 “作为一名医生，我对他一无所知。但我在Mme.见过他。斯旺的。这个男人是个低能儿。即使这并不妨碍他成为一名好医生（我对此犹豫不决），但它确实妨碍了他成为艺术家、智者的好医生。像你这样的人一定有合适的医生，我什至会说专门适合自己的治疗和药物。科塔尔会让你感到厌烦，仅此一点就会阻止他的治疗产生任何效果。此外，正确的治疗方法对你来说不可能与对任何汤姆、迪克或哈利相同。聪明人所患的疾病十分之九都源于他们的智力。他们至少需要一位了解他们疾病的医生。你认为科塔尔会如何对待你，他考虑到了消化酱汁的困难和胃病，但他没有考虑到阅读莎士比亚的效果。因此他的计算在你的情况下不准确，平衡就被打破了；你看，瓶子小鬼总是又浮起来。他会发现你的胃扩张；他不需要检查你，因为他已经在他的眼睛里了。你可以看到它在那儿，反映在他的眼镜上。”这种说话方式让我很累。我带着愚蠢的常识对自己说：“科塔尔教授的眼镜上反映的胃扩张，就像德·诺普瓦先生的白色背心后面藏着的愚蠢一样。”“相反，我应该推荐你，”贝戈特继续说道，“去咨询博士。 杜布尔邦，他是一个非常聪明的人。”“他是你的书的忠实崇拜者，”我回答道。我看到贝戈特知道这一点，我决定志趣相投的人很快就会走到一起，很少有真正“不知名的朋友”。贝戈特对我所说的关于科塔尔的话给我留下了深刻的印象，尽管与我自己所相信的一切背道而驰。我并没有因为觉得我的医生令人厌烦而感到不安；相反，我觉得我的医生很无聊。我期望他，由于我无法掌握其规律的艺术，在咨询了我的内脏之后，他应该就我的健康问题发表无误的神谕。我根本不要求他在智力的帮助下（在这一点上我轻易地超越了他）寻求理解我的智力，我对自己的理解只是作为一种手段，本身并不重要，试图理解我的智力。达到某些外在的真实性。我非常怀疑知识分子是否需要与低能者不同的卫生形式，而我已经准备好接受后者。 “我会告诉你谁确实需要一位好医生，那就是我们的朋友斯旺，”贝戈特说。当我问他是否病了时，‘嗯，你不明白吗，他是典型的娶了妓女的男人，每天都要吞下一百条蛇，这些蛇来自拒绝见他妻子的女人，或者男人谁在他之前。你可以看到它们在他嘴里扭动。 “无论你在那里的任何一天，只要看看他进来时扬起眉毛的样子，看看房间里有谁。”贝戈特对他在朋友家里呆了这么久的朋友中的一个陌生人说这样的话时，充满了恶意。对我来说，受到欢迎的客人的接待就像他在那所房子里一直用的几乎充满爱意的语气一样与他们交谈。 当然，像我的曾祖母这样的人，不可能像我听到的贝戈特对斯旺那样客气地对待我们任何人。即使是对自己喜欢的人，她也喜欢说难听的话。但在他们背后，她绝不会说出他们可能不听的一句话。没有什么比我们贡布雷的社会更不像社会“世界”了。斯旺家的房子标志着通向它、通向它变幻莫测的潮汐的一个阶段。如果他们还没有到达公海，那么他们肯定是在泻湖里了。 “这都是我们之间的事情，”贝戈特一边说，一边把我留在自己的门外。几年后，我应该回答：“我从不重复事情。”这是社会的仪式用语，诽谤者总是从中得到虚假的保证。这就是我当时应该对贝戈特说的话，因为一个人不会发明一个人所有的演讲，尤其是当一个人仅仅充当社交包中的一张卡片时。但我还不知道公式。另一方面，我的姨婆在类似的场合会说：“如果你不希望这件事再次发生，那你为什么要这么说呢？”这是不合群、爱争吵的人的回答。 。我不是那样的人：我默默地低下头。

Men of letters who were in my eyes persons of considerable importance had had to plot for years before they succeeded in forming with Bergotte relations which continued to the end to be but dimly literary, and never emerged beyond the four walls of his study, whereas I, I had now been installed among the friends of the great writer, at the first attempt and without any effort, like a man who, instead of standing outside in a crowd for hours in order to secure a bad seat in a theatre, is shewn in at once to the best, having entered by a door that is closed to the public. If Swann had thus opened such a door to me, it was doubtless because, just as a king finds himself naturally inviting his children’s friends into the royal box, or on board the royal yacht, so Gilberte’s parents received their daughter’s friends among all the precious things that they had in their house, and the even more precious intimacies that were enshrined there. But at that time I thought, and perhaps was right in thinking, that this friendliness on Swann’s part was aimed indirectly at my parents. I seemed to remember having heard once at Combray that he had suggested to them that, in view of my admiration for Bergotte, he should take me to dine with him, and that my parents had declined, saying that I was too young, and too easily excited to ‘go out’ yet. My parents, no doubt, represented to certain other people (precisely those who seemed to me the most marvellous) something quite different from what they were to me, so that, just as when the lady in pink had paid my father a tribute of which he had shewn himself so unworthy, I should have wished them to understand what an inestimable present I had just received, and to testify their gratitude to that generous and courteous Swann who had offered it to me, or to them rather, without seeming any more to be conscious of its value than is, in Luini’s fresco, the charming Mage with the arched nose and fair hair, to whom, it appeared, Swann had at one time been thought to bear a striking resemblance.
在我眼中，那些相当重要的文人，在成功地与贝戈特建立关系之前，必须密谋多年，这种关系一直到最后都只是模糊的文学，而且从未出现在他书房的四堵墙之外，而我，我现在已经被安置在这位伟大作家的朋友中，第一次尝试，毫不费力，就像一个人，不是为了在剧院里找到一个不好的座位而站在人群中几个小时，而是被展示出来从一扇对公众关闭的门进入后，立即进入最佳状态。如果斯旺为我打开了这样一扇门，那毫无疑问是因为，就像国王自然地邀请孩子们的朋友进入皇家包厢或登上皇家游艇一样，吉尔贝特的父母也将女儿的朋友们接待在所有珍贵的人中。他们在家里拥有的东西，以及那里珍藏的更珍贵的亲密关系。但当时我想，或许我的想法是对的，斯万的这种友善是间接针对我父母的。我似乎记得有一次在贡布雷听说他向他们建议，鉴于我对贝戈特的钦佩，他应该带我和他一起吃饭，但我的父母拒绝了，说我太年轻了，而且太年轻了。很容易兴奋地“走出去”呢。 毫无疑问，我的父母对某些其他人（正是那些在我看来最了不起的人）来说，代表着与他们对我来说完全不同的东西，因此，就像粉红色的女士向我的父亲致敬一样他表现得如此不值得，我应该希望他们明白我刚刚收到了一份多么无价的礼物，并向那位慷慨而有礼貌的斯旺表达了他们的感激之情，斯旺将这份礼物送给了我，或者更确切地说，送给了他们，而不再显得如此。与卢伊尼的壁画中那个有着拱形鼻子和金发的迷人法师相比，斯旺一度被认为与他有着惊人的相似之处。

Unfortunately, this favour that Swann had done me, which, as I entered the house, before I had even taken off my greatcoat, I reported to my parents, in the hope that it would awaken in their hearts an emotion equal to my own, and would determine them upon some immense and decisive act of politeness towards the Swanns, did not appear to be greatly appreciated by them. ‘Swann introduced you to Bergotte? An excellent friend for you, charming society!’ cried my father, ironically. ‘It only wanted that!’ Alas, when I had gone on to say that Bergotte was by no means inclined to admire M. de Norpois:
不幸的是，斯旺帮了我这个忙，当我进屋时，我什至还没脱下大衣，就向我的父母报告了，希望这能在他们心中唤醒与我一样的情感，并决定对斯旺一家采取某种巨大而果断的礼貌行为，但他们似乎并不十分欣赏。 “斯旺把你介绍给贝戈特？ “我是你的好朋友，迷人的社会！”我父亲讽刺地喊道。 “它只是想要那个！”唉，当我接着说贝戈特决不倾向于欣赏德·诺普瓦先生时：

‘I dare say!’ retorted my father. ‘That simply proves that he’s a foolish and evil-minded fellow. My poor boy, you never had much common sense, still, I’m sorry to see you fall among a set that will finish you off altogether.’
“我敢说！”父亲反驳道。 ‘这只能证明他是一个愚蠢又邪恶的家伙。我可怜的孩子，你从来没有多少常识，不过，我很遗憾看到你落入了一个最终会让你完蛋的境地。”

Already the mere fact of my frequenting the Swanns had been far from delighting my parents. This introduction to Bergotte seemed to them a fatal but natural consequence of an original mistake, namely their own weakness in controlling me, which my grandfather would have called a ‘want of circumspection.’ I felt that I had only, in order to complete their ill humour, to tell them that this perverse fellow who did not appreciate M. de Norpois had found me extremely intelligent. For I had observed that whenever my father decided that anyone, one of my school friends for instance, was going astray—as I was at that moment—if that person had the approval of somebody whom my father did not rate high, he would see in this testimony the confirmation of his own stern judgment. The evil merely seemed to him more pronounced. I could hear him already exclaiming, ‘Of course, it all hangs together,’ an expression that terrified me by the vagueness and vastness of the reforms the introduction of which into my quiet life it seemed to threaten. But since, were I not to tell them what Bergotte had said of me, even then nothing could efface the impression my parents had formed, that this should be made slightly worse mattered little. Besides, they seemed to me so unfair, so completely mistaken, that not only had I not any hope, I had scarcely any desire to bring them to a more equitable point of view. At the same time, feeling, as the words came from my lips, how alarmed they would be by the thought that I had found favour in the sight of a person who dismissed clever men as fools and had earned the contempt of all decent people, praise from whom, since it seemed to me a thing to be desired, would only encourage me in wrongdoing, it was in faltering tones and with a slightly shamefaced air that, coming to the end of my story, I flung them the bouquet of: ‘He told the Swanns that he had found me extremely intelligent.’ Just as a poisoned dog, in a field, rushes, without knowing why, straight to the grass which is the precise antidote to the toxin that he has swallowed, so I, without in the least suspecting it, had said the one thing in the world that was capable of overcoming in my parents this prejudice with respect to Bergotte, a prejudice which all the best reasons that I could have urged, all the tributes that I could have paid him, must have proved powerless to defeat. Instantly the situation changed.
我经常光顾斯旺家这一事实已经远远不能让我的父母高兴了。对他们来说，对贝戈特的介绍似乎是一个最初错误的致命但自然的后果，即他们自己在控制我方面的弱点，我的祖父会称之为“缺乏谨慎”。告诉他们，这个不欣赏德·诺布瓦先生的乖僻家伙发现我极其聪明，这实在是太不幽默了。因为我观察到，每当我父亲认为某个人，例如我的一位学校朋友，正在误入歧途时——就像我当时那样——如果那个人得到了我父亲评价不高的人的认可，他就会看到在这个证词中证实了他自己的严厉判断。在他看来，这种邪恶似乎更加明显。我能听到他已经在喊道：“当然，这一切都是紧密相连的。”这种表达让我对改革的模糊性和广泛性感到恐惧，而改革的引入似乎对我平静的生活构成了威胁。但既然，如果我不告诉他们贝戈特对我的评价，即使那样，也没有什么能抹去我父母形成的印象，即使事情变得更糟也没什么关系。此外，在我看来，他们是如此不公平，完全错误，以至于我不仅不抱任何希望，而且几乎不想让他们采取更公平的观点。 同时，当这些话从我嘴里说出来时，我感到他们会多么震惊，因为他们想到我在一个视聪明人为傻瓜并受到所有正派人的蔑视的人眼中受到青睐，因为在我看来这是一件值得期待的事情，他们的赞美只会鼓励我做错事，在我的故事结束时，我用结结巴巴的语气和略带羞愧的神情，向他们扔了一束花： “他告诉斯旺一家，他发现我非常聪明。”就像田野里一只中毒的狗，不知道为什么，径直冲向草地，那是他吞下的毒素的精确解药，所以我，毫不怀疑地，他说出了世界上唯一一件事，能够克服我父母对贝戈特的这种偏见，这种偏见是我可以用所有最好的理由来敦促的，我可以用所有的敬意来表达的。付了钱给他，一定证明他无力击败。情况立刻发生了变化。

‘Oh! He said that he found you intelligent,’ repeated my mother. ‘I am glad to hear that, because he is a man of talent.’
'哦！他说他发现你很聪明。”我母亲重复道。 “我很高兴听到这个消息，因为他是一个有才华的人。”

‘What! He said that, did he?’ my father joined in. ‘I don’t for a moment deny his literary distinction, before which the whole world bows; only it is a pity that he should lead that scarcely reputable existence to which old Norpois made a guarded allusion, when he was here,’ he went on, not seeing that against the sovran virtue of the magic words which I had just repeated the depravity of Bergotte’s morals was little more able to contend than the falsity of his judgment.
'什么！ “他是这么说的，是吗？”我父亲插话道。“我一刻也不否认他在文学上的杰出成就，全世界都在他面前鞠躬。唯一遗憾的是，他应该过着老诺普瓦在这里时谨慎暗示的那种几乎没有信誉的生活，”他继续说道，没有看到这一点与我刚才重复的魔词的邪恶美德相反。贝戈特的道德观与他的判断的虚假性相比，没有什么比这更有说服力的了。

‘But, my dear,’ Mamma interrupted, ‘we’ve no proof that it’s true. People say all sorts of things. Besides M. de Norpois may have the most perfect manners in the world, but he’s not always very good-natured, especially about people who are not exactly his sort.’
“但是，亲爱的，”妈妈打断道，“我们没有证据证明这是真的。人们会说各种各样的话。此外，德·诺普瓦先生可能拥有世界上最完美的举止，但他的脾气并不总是很好，尤其是对待那些不完全是他那种人的人。

‘That’s quite true; I’ve noticed it myself,’ my father admitted.
‘确实如此；我自己也注意到了，”我父亲承认道。

‘And then, too, a great deal ought to be forgiven Bergotte, since he thinks well of my little son,’ Mamma went on, stroking my hair with her fingers and fastening upon me a long and pensive gaze.
“还有，贝戈特也应该被原谅，因为他对我的小儿子评价很好。”妈妈继续说道，用手指抚摸着我的头发，用一种长久而沉思的目光注视着我。

My mother had not, indeed, awaited this verdict from Bergotte before telling me that I might ask Gilberte to tea whenever I had friends coming. But I dared not do so for two reasons. The first was that at Gilberte’s there was never anything else to drink but tea. Whereas at home Mamma insisted on there being a pot of chocolate as well. I was afraid that Gilberte might regard this as ‘common’; and so conceive a great contempt for us. The other reason was a formal difficulty, a question of procedure which I could never succeed in settling. When I arrived at Mme. Swann’s she used to ask me: ‘And how is your mother?’ I had made several overtures to Mamma to find out whether she would do the same when Gilberte came to us, a point which seemed to me more serious than, at the Court of Louis XIV, the use of ‘Monseigneur.’ But Mamma would not hear of it for a moment.
事实上，我母亲还没等到贝戈特的判决，就告诉我，只要有朋友来，我就可以请吉尔贝特喝茶。但我不敢这么做，有两个原因。首先，在吉尔贝特家，除了茶之外，没有其他东西可喝。而在家里，妈妈坚持要有一罐巧克力。我担心希尔贝特会认为这是“常见的”；因此对我们怀有极大的蔑视。另一个原因是形式上的困难，这是一个我永远无法成功解决的程序问题。当我到达Mme.斯旺的她常常问我：“你的母亲怎么样？”当希尔贝特来找我们时，我曾多次向妈妈提出建议，想知道她是否也会这样做，在我看来，这一点比在法庭上更严重路易十四时期，使用“Monseigneur”。但妈妈暂时不肯听。

‘Certainly not. I do not know Mme. Swann.’
‘当然不是。我不认识女士。斯旺。”

‘But neither does she know you.’
“但她也不认识你。”

‘I never said she did, but we are not obliged to behave in exactly the same way about everything. I shall find other ways of being civil to Gilberte than Mme. Swann has with you.’
“我从来没有说过她这么做了，但我们没有义务在所有事情上都表现得完全相同。除了夫人之外，我还会找到其他方式对吉尔贝特保持礼貌。斯旺和你在一起。

But I was unconvinced, and preferred not to invite Gilberte.
但我不相信，不想邀请希尔贝特。

Leaving my parents, I went upstairs to change my clothes and on emptying my pockets came suddenly upon the envelope which the Swanns’ butler had handed me before shewing me into the drawing-room. I was now alone. I opened it; inside was a card on which I was told the name of the lady whom I ought to have ‘taken in’ to luncheon.
我离开父母，上楼去换衣服，在掏空口袋时，突然发现斯旺家的管家在带我走进客厅之前递给我的信封。我现在独自一人。我打开它；里面有一张卡片，上面告诉我应该“带”去吃午餐的那位女士的名字。

It was about this period that Bloch overthrew my conception of the world and opened for me fresh possibilities of happiness (which, for that matter, were to change later on into possibilities of suffering), by assuring me that, in contradiction of all that I had believed at the time of my walks along the Méséglise way, women never asked for anything better than to make love. He added to this service a second, the value of which I was not to appreciate until much later; it was he who took me for the first time into a disorderly house. He had indeed told me that there were any number of pretty women whom one might enjoy. But I could see them only in a vague outline for which those houses were to enable me to substitute actual human features. So that if I owed to Bloch—for his ‘good tidings’ that beauty and the enjoyment of beauty were not inaccessible things, and that we have acted foolishly in renouncing them for all time—a debt of gratitude of the same kind that we owe to an optimistic physician or philosopher who has given us reason to hope for length of days in this world and not to be entirely cut off from it when we shall have passed beyond the veil, the houses of assignation which I began to frequent some years later—by furnishing me with specimens of beauty, by allowing me to add to the beauty of women that element which we are powerless to invent, which is something more than a mere summary of former beauties, that present indeed divine, the one present that we cannot bestow upon ourselves, before which faint and fail all the logical creations of our intellect, and which we can seek from reality alone: an individual charm—deserved to be ranked by me with those other benefactors more recent in origin but of comparable utility (before finding which we used to imagine without any warmth the seductive charms of Mantegna, of Wagner, of Siena, by studying other painters, hearing other composers, visiting other cities): namely illustrated editions of the history of painting, symphonic concerts and handbooks to ‘Mediaeval Towns.’ But the house to which Bloch led me (and which he himself, for that matter, had long ceased to visit), was of too humble a grade, its denizens were too inconspicuous and too little varied to be able to satisfy my old or to stimulate new curiosities. The mistress of this house knew none of the women with whom one asked her to negotiate, and was always suggesting others whom one did not want. She boasted to me of one in particular, one of whom, with a smile full of promise (as though this had been a great rarity and a special treat) she would whisper: ‘She is a Jewess! Doesn’t that make you want to?’ (That, by the way, was probably why the girl’s name was Rachel.) And with a silly and affected excitement which, she hoped, would prove contagious, and which ended in a hoarse gurgle, almost of sensual satisfaction: ‘Think of that, my boy, a Jewess! Wouldn’t that be lovely? Rrrr!’ This Rachel, of whom I caught a glimpse without her seeing me, was dark and not good looking, but had an air of intelligence, and would pass the tip of her tongue over her lips as she smiled, with a look of boundless impertinence, at the ‘boys’ who were introduced to her and whom I could hear making conversation. Her small and narrow face was framed in short curls of black hair, irregular as though they were outlined in pen-strokes upon a wash-drawing in Indian ink. Every evening I promised the old woman who offered her to me with a special insistence, boasting of her superior intelligence and her education, that I would not fail to come some day on purpose to make the acquaintance of Rachel, whom I had nicknamed ‘Rachel when from the Lord.’ But the first evening I had heard her, as she was leaving the house, say to the mistress: ‘That’s settled then; I shall be free to-morrow, if you have anyone you won’t forget to send for me.’
正是在这个时期，布洛赫推翻了我的世界观，为我开启了幸福的新可能性（就此而言，幸福后来变成了痛苦的可能性），他向我保证，与我所知道的一切相矛盾。当我沿着梅塞格利兹小道散步时，我相信女人除了做爱之外不会要求任何更好的事情。他在这项服务中又增加了一项内容，直到很久以后我才意识到它的价值。是他第一次带我走进一个杂乱的房子。他确实告诉过我，有很多漂亮的女人可以让人喜欢。但我只能看到它们的模糊轮廓，这些房屋使我能够替代真实的人类特征。 因此，如果我欠布洛赫——因为他的“好消息”，即美和美的享受并非遥不可及，我们永远放弃它们是愚蠢的——一份与我们欠下的同样的感激之情致一位乐观的医生或哲学家，他让我们有理由希望在这个世界上度过漫长的岁月，并且当我们穿过面纱时，我们不会完全与这个世界隔绝，几年后我开始经常光顾分配的房子——通过为我提供美丽的样本，通过允许我为女性的美丽添加我们无力发明的元素，这不仅仅是对以前的美丽的简单概括，它确实是神圣的，是我们所呈现的不能赋予我们自己，在它面前，我们智力的所有逻辑创造都会黯然失色，而我们只能从现实中寻求它：一种个人魅力——值得我与那些起源较晚但具有可比实用性的其他捐助者相提并论（在发现之前，我们曾经通过研究其他画家、聆听其他作曲家、参观其他城市，毫无热情地想象曼特尼亚、瓦格纳、锡耶纳的诱人魅力：即绘画史、交响音乐会和手册的插图版本。 “中世纪的城镇。”但是布洛赫带我去的那所房子（他本人也早已不再参观）的等级太简陋，里面的居民太不起眼，变化太小，无法了解。满足我旧的或激发新的好奇心。这所房子的女主人不认识任何一个有人请她谈判的女人，而且总是推荐别人不想要的人。 她特别向我吹嘘其中一个人，其中一个带着充满希望的微笑（仿佛这是一种非常罕见的特殊待遇），她会低声说：“她是一个犹太女人！”这难道不让你想要吗？”（顺便说一句，这可能就是为什么那个女孩的名字叫雷切尔。）带着一种愚蠢而做作的兴奋，她希望这种兴奋会传染，最后以嘶哑的咯咯声结束。 ，几乎是感官上的满足：“想想看，我的孩子，一个犹太女人！那不是很可爱吗？呃！”这个蕾切尔，我在她没有看到我的情况下瞥见了她，她皮肤黝黑，长得不好看，但却有一种聪明的气质，微笑时会把舌尖放在嘴唇上，一副对那些被介绍给她的“男孩”，我能听到他们在谈话，这是无礼的无礼。她那张又小又窄的脸被黑色的短卷发所包围，不规则的头发就像是用墨水在水墨画上用钢笔勾勒出来的。每天晚上，我都向那个特别坚持把她送给我的老妇人保证，她吹嘘她超凡的智力和受过的教育，有一天我一定会特意来结识雷切尔，我给她起了个绰号“雷切尔”。但第一天晚上，当她离开家时，我听到她对女主人说：“那就这么定了；明天我有空，如果你有谁的话，别忘了派人来找我。’

And these words had prevented me from recognising her as a person because they had made me classify her at once in a general category of women whose habit, common to all of them, was to come there in the evening to see whether there might not be a louis or two to be earned. She would simply vary her formula, saying indifferently: ‘If you want me’ or ‘If you want anybody.’
这些话使我无法认出她这个人，因为它们使我立即将她归类为女性的一般类别，她们所有人都有一个共同的习惯，就是晚上到那里去看看是否有可能存在。赚取一两个路易。她只是改变自己的说法，冷漠地说：“如果你想要我”或“如果你想要任何人”。

The mistress, who was not familiar with Halévy’s opera, did not know why I always called the girl ‘Rachel when from the Lord.’ But failure to understand a joke has never yet made anyone find it less amusing, and it was always with a whole-hearted laugh that she would say to me:
女主人不熟悉哈莱维的歌剧，不知道为什么我总是称这个女孩为“来自上帝的雷切尔”。但是听不懂笑话从来不会让任何人觉得它不那么有趣，而且总是带着一种她会全心全意地笑着对我说：

‘Then there’s nothing doing to-night? When am I going to fix you up with ‘Rachel when from the Lord’? Why do you always say that, ‘Rachel when from the Lord’? Oh, that’s very smart, that is. I’m going to make a match of you two. You won’t be sorry for it, you’ll see.’
“那今天晚上没什么事可做吗？我什么时候才能给你安排“来自主的拉结”？为什么你总是说‘拉结是从主来的’？哦，这很聪明，就是这样。我要为你们两个做一场比赛。你不会为此感到遗憾的，你会看到的。

Once I was just making up my mind, but she was ‘in the press,’ another time in the hands of the hairdresser, an elderly gentleman who never did anything for the women except pour oil on their loosened hair and then comb it. And I grew tired of waiting, even though several of the humbler frequenters of the place (working girls, they called themselves, but they always seemed to be out of work), had come to mix drinks for me and to hold long conversations to which, despite the gravity of the subjects discussed, the partial or total nudity of the speakers gave an attractive simplicity. I ceased moreover to go to this house because, anxious to present a token of my good-will to the woman who kept it and was in need of furniture, I had given her several pieces, notably a big sofa, which I had inherited from my aunt Léonie. I used never to see them, for want of space had prevented my parents from taking them in at home, and they were stored in a warehouse. But as soon as I discovered them again in the house where these women were putting them to their own uses, all the virtues that one had imbibed in the air of my aunt’s room at Combray became apparent to me, tortured by the cruel contact to which I had abandoned them in their helplessness! Had I outraged the dead, I should not have suffered such remorse. I returned no more to visit their new mistress, for they seemed to me to be alive, and to be appealing to me, like those objects, apparently inanimate, in a Persian fairy-tale, in which are embodied human souls that are undergoing martyrdom and plead for deliverance. Besides, as our memory presents things to us, as a rule, not in their chronological sequence but as it were by a reflexion in which the order of the parts is reversed, I remembered only long afterwards that it was upon that same sofa that, many years before, I had tasted for the first time the sweets of love with one of my girl cousins, with whom I had not known where to go until she somewhat rashly suggested our taking advantage of a moment in which aunt Léonie had left her room.
有一次我刚刚拿定主意，但她却“在媒体上”，还有一次是在理发师的手中，一位年长的绅士除了在她们松散的头发上倒油然后梳理之外，从来没有为女人们做过任何事。我已经厌倦了等待，尽管这个地方的几个不起眼的常客（她们自称是职业女孩，但她们似乎总是失业）来为我调酒，并与我进行长时间的交谈。尽管讨论的主题很严肃，但演讲者的部分或全部裸体却给人一种吸引人的简单感。此外，我不再去这所房子，因为我急于向那个需要家具的女人表达我的善意，我给了她几件东西，特别是一张大沙发，这是我从那里继承的我的莱奥妮姨妈。我以前从来没有见过它们，因为家里空间有限，我的父母无法把它们带回家，它们被存放在仓库里。但是，当我在这些妇女将它们用于自己的房子里再次发现它们时，人们在贡布雷姨妈房间的空气中吸收的所有美德对我来说变得显而易见，受到残酷接触的折磨。我在他们的无助中抛弃了他们！如果我激怒了死者，我就不应该遭受这样的悔恨。我不再回来拜访他们的新情妇，因为在我看来，他们似乎还活着，并且对我有吸引力，就像波斯童话中那些表面上没有生命的物体一样，其中体现了正在经历殉难的人类灵魂并恳求释放。 此外，当我们的记忆向我们呈现事物时，通常不是按时间顺序，而是通过各部分顺序颠倒的反射，我很久以后才想起，正是在同一张沙发上，许多年前，我第一次尝到了与我的一个表姐妹的爱情甜蜜，我不知道该去哪里，直到她有点鲁​​莽地建议我们利用莱奥妮姨妈离开房间的机会。 。

A whole lot more of my aunt Léonie’s things, and notably a magnificent set of old silver plate, I sold, in spite of my parents’ warnings, so as to have more money to spend, and to be able to send more flowers to Mme. Swann who would greet me, after receiving an immense basket of orchids, with: ‘If I were your father, I should have you up before the magistrate for this.’ How was I to suppose that one day I might regret more than anything the loss of my silver plate, and rank certain other pleasures more highly than that (which would have shrunk perhaps into none at all) of bestowing favours upon Gilberte’s parents. Similarly, it was with Gilberte in my mind, and so as not to be separated from her, that I had decided not to enter a career of diplomacy abroad. It is always thus, impelled by a state of mind which is destined not to last, that we make our irrevocable decisions. I could scarcely imagine that that strange substance which was housed in Gilberte, and from her permeated her parents and her home, leaving me indifferent to all things else, could be liberated from her, could migrate into another person. The same substance, unquestionable, and yet one that would have a wholly different effect on me. For a single malady goes through various evolutions, and a delicious poison can no longer be taken with the same impunity when, with the passing of the years, the heart’s power of resistance has diminished.
我不顾父母的警告，卖掉了莱奥妮姨妈的很多东西，尤其是一套华丽的旧银盘，以便有更多的钱可以花，也可以送更多的花给夫人。 。斯旺在收到一大篮兰花后向我打招呼，说道：“如果我是你的父亲，我应该为此把你带到地方法官面前。”我怎么会认为有一天我会比任何事情都后悔呢？失去我的银盘，并把某些其他快乐看得比给予希尔贝特父母的恩惠更重要（也许根本没有）。同样，我心里也想着吉尔贝特，为了不与她分离，我决定不再从事国外外交事业。因此，我们总是在一种注定不会持久的心态的驱使下做出不可撤销的决定。我几乎无法想象，隐藏在希尔贝特身上的那种奇怪的物质，从​​她那里渗透到她的父母和她的家里，让我对其他一切都漠不关心，可以从她身上解放出来，可以迁移到另一个人身上。毫无疑问，同样的物质，但却会对我产生完全不同的影响。因为同一种疾病会经历不同的演变，当随着岁月的流逝，心脏的抵抗力减弱时，再服用美味的毒药就不能再不受惩罚了。

My parents meanwhile would have liked to see the intelligence that Bergotte had discerned in me made manifest in some remarkable achievement. When I still did not know the Swanns I thought that I was prevented from working by the state of agitation into which I was thrown by the impossibility of seeing Gilberte when I chose. But, now that their door stood open to me, scarcely had I sat down at my desk than I would rise and run to them. And after I had left them and was at home again, my isolation was only apparent, my mind was powerless to swim against the stream of words on which I had allowed myself mechanically to be borne for hours on end. Sitting alone, I continued to fashion remarks such as might have pleased or amused the Swanns, and to make this pastime more entertaining I myself took the parts of those absent players, I put to myself imagined questions, so chosen that my brilliant epigrams served merely as happy answers to them. Though conducted in silence, this exercise was none the less a conversation and not a meditation, my solitude a mental society in which it was not I myself but other imaginary speakers who controlled my choice of words, and in which I felt as I formulated, in place of the thoughts that I believed to be true, those that came easily to my mind, and involved no introspection from without, that kind of pleasure, entirely passive, which sitting still affords to anyone who is burdened with a sluggish digestion.
与此同时，我的父母希望看到贝戈特在我身上发现的智慧在一些非凡的成就中得到体现。当我还不认识斯旺一家时，我以为自己因无法在选择时见到吉尔贝特而陷入焦躁状态而无法工作。但是，现在他们的门向我敞开，我一坐在办公桌前，就起身跑向他们。当我离开他们回到家后，我的孤立感才显现出来，我的思绪无力在我机械地连续几个小时忍受的文字洪流中游动。我独自一人坐着，继续发表一些可能会让斯旺一家人高兴或逗乐的言论，为了让这种消遣更加有趣，我自己扮演了那些缺席球员的角色，我向自己提出了想象中的问题，如此选择，以至于我精彩的警句仅仅起到了作用。作为对他们的快乐答复。尽管是在沉默中进行的，但这种练习仍然是一种对话，而不是一种冥想，我的孤独是一个心理社会，在这个社会中，控制我措辞的不是我自己，而是其他想象中的说话者，在其中，当我表述时，我感到，那些我认为是真实的想法，那些很容易出现在我脑海中，不涉及外部反省的想法，被那种完全被动的快乐所取代，这种快乐是任何一个消化迟缓的人静坐时所获得的。

Had I been less firmly resolved upon setting myself definitely to work, I should perhaps have made an effort to begin at once. But since my resolution was explicit, since within twenty-four hours, in the empty frame of that long morrow in which everything was so well arranged because I myself had not yet entered it, my good intentions would be realised without difficulty, it was better not to select an evening on which I was ill-disposed for a beginning for which the following days were not, alas, to shew themselves any more propitious. But I was reasonable. It would have been puerile, on the part of one who had waited now for years, not to put up with a postponement of two or three days. Confident that by the day after next I should have written several pages, I said not a word more to my parents of my decision; I preferred to remain patient for a few hours and then to bring to a convinced and comforted grandmother a sample of work that was already under way. Unfortunately the morrow was not that vast, external day to which I in my fever had looked forward. When it drew to a close, my laziness and my painful struggle to overcome certain internal obstacles had simply lasted twenty-four hours longer. And at the end of several days, my plans not having matured, I had no longer the same hope that they would be realised at once, no longer the courage, therefore, to subordinate everything else to their realisation: I began again to keep late hours, having no longer, to oblige me to go to bed early on any evening, the certain hope of seeing my work begun next morning. I needed, before I could recover my creative energy, several days of relaxation, and the only time that my grandmother ventured, in a gentle and disillusioned tone, to frame the reproach: ‘Well, and that work of yours; aren’t we even to speak of it now?’ I resented her intrusion, convinced that in her inability to see that my mind was irrevocably made up, she had further and perhaps for a long time postponed the execution of my task, by the shock which her denial of justice to me had given my nerves, since until I had recovered from that shock I should not feel inclined to begin my work. She felt that her scepticism had charged blindly into my intention. She apologised, kissing me: ‘I am sorry; I shall not say anything again,’ and, so that I should not be discouraged, assured me that, from the day on which I should be quite well again, the work would come of its own accord from my superfluity of strength.
如果我没有那么坚定地下定决心去工作，我也许应该立即开始努力。但既然我的决心是明确的，因为二十四小时之内，在那个漫长的明天的空虚的框架里，一切都安排得井井有条，因为我自己还没有进入它，我的良好愿望将毫无困难地实现，那就更好了不要选择一个我心情不好的夜晚作为开始，而接下来的几天，唉，并没有表现出任何更有利的情况。但我是有道理的。对于一个已经等了好几年的人来说，如果不容忍推迟两三天，那就太幼稚了。我确信到后天我应该写出几页纸，所以我没有再向父母透露我的决定。我更愿意耐心等待几个小时，然后将一份已经在进行中的工作样本带给一位深信不疑、感到安慰的祖母。不幸的是，明天并不是我在发烧中所期待的那样广阔的、外部的一天。当它接近尾声时，我的懒惰和克服某些内部障碍的痛苦斗争只是持续了二十四小时。几天后，我的计划还没有成熟，我不再有同样的希望立即实现它们，因此不再有勇气让其他一切服从于它们的实现：我又开始迟到我不再需要每天晚上早点上床睡觉，而是希望第二天早上就能开始工作。 在我恢复我的创造力之前，我需要几天的放松，这是我祖母唯一敢于用一种温和而幻灭的语气来责备我的时间：“好吧，还有你的工作；”难道我们现在就不能谈论这件事吗？”我对她的闯入感到不满，深信由于她无法看到我的决定已经不可挽回，所以她进一步推迟了我的任务的执行，也许很长一段时间。她对我不公正的对待让我感到震惊，因为在我从震惊中恢复过来之前，我不会愿意开始我的工作。她觉得她的怀疑盲目地影响了我的意图。她吻了我并道歉：“对不起；”我不会再说什么了，”而且，为了不让我灰心，他向我保证，从我完全康复的那一天起，这项工作就会凭借我多余的力量自行完成。

Besides, I said to myself, in spending all my time with the Swanns, am I not doing exactly what Bergotte does? To my parents it seemed almost as though, idle as I was, I was leading, since it was spent in the same drawing-room with a great writer, the life most favourable to the growth of talent. And yet the assumption that anyone can be dispensed from having to create that talent for himself, from within himself, and can acquire it from some one else, is as impossible as it would be to suppose that a man can keep himself in good health, in spite of neglecting all the rules of hygiene and of indulging in the worst excesses, merely by dining out often in the company of a physician. The person, by the way, who was most completely taken in by this illusion, which misled me as well as my parents, was Mme. Swann. When I explained to her that I was unable to come, that I must stay at home and work, she looked as though she were thinking that I made a great fuss about nothing, that there was something foolish as well as ostentatious in what I had said.
此外，我对自己说，我把所有的时间都花在斯旺一家身上，我所做的不正是贝戈特所做的吗？在我的父母看来，虽然我很闲，但我却在领导，因为我和一位伟大的作家在同一个客厅里度过，这是最有利于才华成长的生活。然而，假设任何人都可以不必从自己内部为自己创造这种才能，并且可以从其他人那里获得这种才能，这就像假设一个人可以保持良好的健康一样不可能。尽管忽视了所有的卫生规则并沉迷于最严重的过度行为，仅仅经常在医生的陪伴下外出就餐。顺便说一句，最完全被这种幻觉所迷惑的人是米勒夫人，这种幻觉误导了我和我的父母。斯旺。当我向她解释说我不能来，我必须留在家里工作时，她看起来好像认为我是在小题大做，我所做的事情既愚蠢又炫耀。说。

‘But Bergotte is coming, isn’t he? Do you mean that you don’t think it good, what he writes? It will be better still, very soon,’ she went on, ‘for he is more pointed, he concentrates more in newspaper articles than in his books, where he is apt to spread out too much. I’ve arranged that in future he’s to do the leading articles in the Figaro. He’ll be distinctly the ‘right man in the right place’ there.’ And, finally, ‘Come! He will tell you, better than anyone, what you ought to do.’
“但是贝戈特要来了，不是吗？你的意思是你觉得他写的不好？很快就会更好，”她接着说，“因为他更尖锐，他更专注于报纸文章而不是他的书，因为他在书上很容易分散太多。我已经安排他将来在费加罗报上发表头条文章。他显然是那里“正确的人在正确的地方”。最后，“来吧！”他会比任何人都更好地告诉你你应该做什么。

And so, just as one invites a gentleman ranker to meet his colonel, it was in the interests of my career, and as though masterpieces of literature arose out of ‘getting to know’ people, that she told me not to fail to come to dinner with her next day, to meet Bergotte.
因此，就像有人邀请一位绅士级别的人去见他的上校一样，她告诉我不要不去见见他的上校，这符合我的职业生涯，就好像文学杰作是从“了解”人们中产生的一样。第二天和她一起吃晚饭，去见贝戈特。

And so there was not from the Swanns any more than from my parents, that is to say from those who, at different times, had seemed bound to place obstacles in my way, any further opposition to that pleasant existence in which I might see Gilberte as often as I chose, with enjoyment if not with peace of mind. There can be no peace of mind in love, since the advantage one has secured is never anything but a fresh starting-point for further desires. So long as I had not been free to go to her, having my eyes fixed upon that inaccessible goal of happiness, I could not so much as imagine the fresh grounds for anxiety that lay in wait for me there. Once the resistance of her parents was broken, and the problem solved at last, it began to set itself anew, and always in different terms. Each evening, on arriving home, I reminded myself that I had things to say to Gilberte of prime importance, things upon which our whole friendship hung, and these things were never the same. But at least I was happy, and no further menace arose to threaten my happiness. One was to appear, alas, from a quarter in which I had never detected any peril, namely from Gilberte and myself. And yet I ought to have been tormented by what, on the contrary, reassured me, by what I mistook for happiness. We are, when we love, in an abnormal state, capable of giving at once to an accident, the most simple to all appearance and one that may at any moment occur, a serious-aspect which that accident by itself would not bear. What makes us so happy is the presence in our heart of an unstable element which we are perpetually arranging to keep in position, and of which we cease almost to be aware so long as it is not displaced. Actually, there is in love a permanent strain of suffering which happiness neutralises, makes conditional only, procrastinates, but which may at any moment become what it would long since have been had we not obtained what we were seeking, sheer agony.
因此，斯万一家和我的父母一样，也就是说，那些在不同时期似乎注定要在我的道路上设置障碍的人，都没有对我可能见到希尔贝特的愉快生活提出任何进一步的反对。只要我选择，就可以享受，即使不是内心的平静。爱情中不可能有心灵的平静，因为一个人所获得的优势只不过是进一步欲望的新起点。只要我不能自由地去找她，眼睛盯着那遥不可及的幸福目标，我就无法想象那里等待着我的新的焦虑理由。一旦她父母的阻力被打破，问题最终得到解决，它就开始重新出现，而且总是以不同的方式出现。每天晚上，回到家后，我都会提醒自己，我有一些最重要的事情要对希尔贝特说，这些事情是我们整个友谊的基础，而这些事情从来都不是一样的。但至少我是快乐的，没有进一步的威胁出现来威胁我的快乐。唉，其中一个是从我从未发现过任何危险的地方出现的，即来自希尔贝特和我自己。然而，我本应该被那些让我安心的东西所折磨，被我误以为是幸福的东西所折磨。当我们在一种不正常的状态下爱的时候，我们能够立即给予一种意外事件，这种意外事件看起来是最简单的，而且随时可能发生，但这种意外事件本身是无法承受的。让我们如此高兴的是我们心中存在着一种不稳定的因素，我们不断地安排它保持在适当的位置，只要它不被取代，我们几乎就不会意识到它。 事实上，在爱情中存在着一种永久的痛苦压力，幸福可以中和这种痛苦，使其成为有条件的，拖延，但它可能随时变成如果我们没有得到我们所寻求的东西，纯粹的痛苦，它早就已经是这样了。

On several occasions I felt that Gilberte was anxious to put off my visits. It is true that when I was at all anxious to see her I had only to get myself invited by her parents who were increasingly persuaded of my excellent influence over her. ‘Thanks to them,’ I used to think, ‘my love is running no risk; the moment I have them on my side, I can set my mind at rest; they have full authority over Gilberte.’ Until, alas, I detected certain signs of impatience which she allowed to escape her when her father made me come to the house, almost against her will, and asked myself whether what I had regarded as a protection for my happiness was not in fact the secret reason why that happiness could not endure.
有几次我感觉到希尔贝特急于推迟我的访问。确实，当我非常渴望见到她时，我只需要得到她父母的邀请，他们越来越相信我对她的卓越影响力。 “多亏了他们，”我曾经想，“我的爱没有冒险；”有他们在我身边，我就安心了； “他们对希尔贝特拥有完全的权力。”直到，唉，我发现了一些不耐烦的迹象，当她父亲几乎违背她的意愿让我来到家里时，她让这种不耐烦的迹象消失了，并问自己是否我所认为的保护因为我的幸福实际上并不是幸福无法持久的秘密原因。

The last time that I called to see Gilberte, it was raining; she had been asked to a dancing lesson in the house of some people whom she knew too slightly to be able to take me there with her. In view of the dampness of the air I had taken rather more caffeine than usual. Perhaps on account of the weather, or because she had some objection to the house in which this party was being given, Mme. Swann, as her daughter was leaving the room, called her back in the sharpest of tones: ‘Gilberte!’ and pointed to me, to indicate that I had come there to see her and that she ought to stay with me. This ‘Gilberte!’ had been uttered, or shouted rather, with the best of intentions towards myself, but from the way in which Gilberte shrugged her shoulders as she took off her outdoor clothes I divined that her mother had unwittingly hastened the gradual evolution, which until then it had perhaps been possible to arrest, which was gradually drawing away from me my friend. ‘You don’t need to go out dancing every day,’ Odette told her daughter, with a sagacity acquired, no doubt, in earlier days, from Swann. Then, becoming once more Odette, she began speaking to her daughter in English. At once it was as though a wall had sprung up to hide from me a part of the life of Gilberte, as though an evil genius had spirited my friend far away. In a language that we know, we have substituted for the opacity of sounds, the perspicuity of ideas. But a language which we do not know is a fortress sealed, within whose walls she whom we love is free to play us false, while we, standing without, desperately alert in our impotence, can see, can prevent nothing. So this conversation in English, at which, a month earlier, I should merely have smiled, interspersed with a few proper names in French which did not fail to accentuate, to give a point to my uneasiness, had, when conducted within a few feet of me by two motionless persons, the same degree of cruelty, left me as much abandoned and alone as the forcible abduction of my companion. At length Mme. Swann left us. That day, perhaps from resentment against myself, the unwilling cause of her not going out to enjoy herself, perhaps also because, guessing her to be angry with me, I was precautionally colder than usual with her, the face of Gilberte, divested of every sign of joy, bleak, bare, pillaged, seemed all afternoon to be devoting a melancholy regret to the pas-de-quatre in which my arrival had prevented her from going to take part, and to be defying every living creature, beginning with myself, to understand the subtle reasons that had determined in her a sentimental attachment to the boston. She confined herself to exchanging with me, now and again, on the weather, the increasing violence of the rain, the fastness of the clock, a conversation punctuated with silences and monosyllables, in which I lashed myself on, with a sort of desperate rage, to the destruction of those moments which we might have devoted to friendship and happiness. And on each of our remarks was stamped, as it were, a supreme harshness, by the paroxysm of their stupefying unimportance, which at the same time consoled me, for it prevented Gilberte from being taken in by the banality of my observations and the indifference of my tone. In vain was my polite: ‘I thought, the other day, that the clock was slow, if anything”; she evidently understood me to mean: ‘How tiresome you are being!’ Obstinately as I might protract, over the whole length of that rain-sodden afternoon, the dull cloud of words through which no fitful ray shone, I knew that my coldness was not so unalterably fixed as I pretended, and that Gilberte must be fully aware that if, after already saying it to her three times, I had hazarded a fourth repetition of the statement that the evenings were drawing in, I should have had difficulty in restraining myself from bursting into tears. When she was like that, when no smile filled her eyes or unveiled her face, I cannot describe the devastating monotony that stamped her melancholy eyes and sullen features. Her face, grown almost livid, reminded me then of those dreary beaches where the sea, ebbing far out, wearies one with its faint shimmering, everywhere the same, fixed in an immutable and low horizon. At length, as I saw no sign in Gilberte of the happy change for which I had been waiting now for some hours, I told her that she was not being nice. ‘It is you that are not being nice,’ was her answer. ‘Oh, but surely——!’ I asked myself what I could have done, and, finding no answer, put the question to her. ‘Naturally, you think yourself nice!’ she said to me with a laugh, and went on laughing. Whereupon I felt all the anguish that there was for me in not being able to attain to that other, less perceptible, plane of her mind which her laughter indicated. It seemed, that laughter, to mean: ‘No, no, I’m not going to let myself be moved by anything that you say, I know you’re madly in love with me, but that leaves me neither hot nor cold, for I don’t care a rap for you.’ But I told myself that, after all, laughter was not a language so well defined that I could be certain of understanding what this laugh really meant. And Gilberte’s words were affectionate. ‘But how am I not being nice?’ I asked her. ‘Tell me; I will do anything you want.’ ‘No; that wouldn’t be any good. I can’t explain.’ For a moment I was afraid that she thought that I did not love her, and this was for me a fresh agony, no less keen, but one that required treatment by a different conversational method. ‘If you knew how much you were hurting me you would tell me.’ But this pain which, had she doubted my love for her, must have rejoiced her, seemed instead to make her more angry. Then, realising my mistake, making up my mind to pay no more attention to what she said, letting her (without bothering to believe her) assure me: ‘I do love you, indeed I do; you will see one day,’ (that day on which the guilty are convinced that their innocence will be made clear, and which, for some mysterious reason, never happens to be the day on which their evidence is taken), I had the courage to make a sudden resolution not to see her again, and without telling her of it yet since she would not have believed me.
上次我打电话去看吉尔贝特时，正在下雨。她被邀请去一些人家里上舞蹈课，她对这些人认识太少，无法带我一起去。由于空气潮湿，我比平常摄入了更多的咖啡因。也许是因为天气的原因，或者是因为她对举办这次聚会的房子有一些反对，夫人。当她的女儿离开房间时，斯旺用最尖锐的语气叫她回来：“吉尔贝特！”并指着我，表示我是来看她的，她应该和我在一起。这句“希尔贝特！”是出于好意对我说出来的，或者说是大喊的，但是从希尔贝特脱下户外衣服时耸肩的方式来看，我推测她的母亲无意中加速了逐渐的演变，在那之前也许有可能逮捕它，它正在逐渐远离我，我的朋友。 “你不需要每天都出去跳舞，”奥黛特告诉她的女儿，她的智慧无疑是从斯旺那里学到的。然后，她又变成了奥黛特，开始用英语和女儿说话。立刻，好像一堵墙突然出现，向我隐藏了希尔贝特生活的一部分，好像一个邪恶的天才把我的朋友带到了很远的地方。在我们所知的语言中，我们用清晰的思想代替了声音的不透明。但是，一种我们不知道的语言是一座封闭的堡垒，在它的围墙内，我们所爱的她可以自由地欺骗我们，而我们，站在墙外，因我们的无能而极度警惕，可以看到，也无法阻止任何事情。 因此，这次用英语进行的谈话，一个月前，我本应该只是微笑一下，中间穿插了一些法语专有名词，这无疑强调了我的不安，但当在几英尺之内进行时，却发生了这样的情况。我被两个一动不动的人强行绑架，同样程度的残酷，让我像强行绑架我的同伴一样被遗弃和孤独。最后，夫人。斯旺离开了我们。那天，也许是出于对自己的怨恨，是她不愿意出去玩的原因，也许也是因为我猜到她是在生我的气，所以我对她的态度比平常更加冷漠，希尔贝特的脸被剥夺了一切。欢乐的迹象，凄凉，赤裸，被掠夺，整个下午似乎都在为我的到来阻止她参加的舞会表达忧郁的遗憾，并且蔑视一切生物，从我自己开始，了解导致她对波士顿产生感情的微妙原因。她只限于时不时地与我交流天气、雨势越来越大、时钟的快慢，谈话中不时出现沉默和单音节词，我在谈话中带着一种绝望的愤怒鞭打自己。 ，破坏了我们本可以奉献给友谊和幸福的那些时刻。我们的每一句话都被打上了极其严厉的印记，因为它们突然变得令人震惊的不重要，这同时安慰了我，因为它防止希尔贝特被我平庸的观察和冷漠所欺骗。我的语气。我的礼貌是徒劳的：“前几天我想，如果有什么不同的话，那就是时钟走慢了”；她显然明白我的意思是：‘你真烦人！’尽管我固执地在那个被大雨浸湿的下午的整个过程中，在没有断断续续的光线照射的情况下，用沉闷的文字遮遮掩掩，但我知道我的冷漠并不像我假装的那样一成不变，希尔贝特一定是完全我意识到，如果我已经对她说了三遍之后，再冒险第四次重复这句话，夜色即将来临，我就会难以抑制自己的泪水。当她那样的时候，当她的眼睛里没有笑容，脸上没有一丝笑容时，我无法描述她忧郁的眼睛和阴沉的面容上刻画着的毁灭性的单调。她的脸几乎变得铁青，让我想起了那些沉闷的海滩，那里的海水，远远地退去，微弱的波光使人疲惫不堪，到处都是一样的，固定在一成不变的低地平线上。最后，由于我在希尔贝特身上没有看到我已经等待了几个小时的快乐变化的迹象，我告诉她她不太友善。 “是你不友善，”她回答道。 “哦，但是当然——！”我问自己我能做什么，但找不到答案，就把问题问了她。 “当然，你认为自己很好！”她笑着对我说，然后继续笑。于是，我感到了所有的痛苦，因为我无法达到她的笑声所暗示的另一个不易察觉的心灵层面。那笑声似乎意味着：“不，不，我不会让自己被你说的任何话所感动，我知道你疯狂地爱着我，但这让我既不热也不冷，因为我不在乎你的说唱。”但我告诉自己，毕竟，笑不是一种定义如此明确的语言，以至于我可以确定理解这种笑的真正含义。 希尔贝特的话语充满了深情。 “但是我怎么不友善呢？”我问她。 '告诉我; “我会做任何你想做的事。”那可没有什么好处。我无法解释。”有一瞬间，我担心她认为我不爱她，这对我来说是一种新的痛苦，同样强烈，但需要用不同的对话方法来治疗。 “如果你知道你对我的伤害有多大，你就会告诉我。”但是，如果她怀疑我对她的爱，这种痛苦一定会让她感到高兴，但这种痛苦似乎反而让她更加生气。然后，我意识到自己的错误，决定不再理会她说的话，让她（懒得相信她）向我保证：“我确实爱你，确实如此；”你会看到有一天，”（那一天，有罪的人确信他们的清白将被证明是清白的，但由于某种神秘的原因，这一天从来没有碰巧成为他们的证据被取证的那一天），我有勇气突然决定不再见到她，而且还没有告诉她，因为她不会相信我。

Grief that is caused one by a person with whom one is in love can be bitter, even when it is interpolated among preoccupations, occupations, pleasures in which that person is not directly involved and from which our attention is diverted only now and again to return to it. But when such a grief has its birth—as was now happening—at a moment when the happiness of seeing that person fills us to the exclusion of all else, the sharp depression that then affects our spirits, sunny hitherto, sustained and calm, lets loose in us a raging tempest against which we know not whether we are capable of struggling to the end. The tempest that was blowing in my heart was so violent that I made my way home baffled, battered, feeling that I could recover my breath only by retracing my steps, by returning, upon whatever pretext, into Gilberte’s presence. But she would have said to herself: ‘Back again! Evidently I can go to any length with him; he will come back every time, and the more wretched he is when he leaves me the more docile he’ll be.’ Besides, I was irresistibly drawn towards her in thought, and those alternative orientations, that mad careering between them of the compass-needle within me, persisted after I had reached home, and expressed themselves in the mutually contradictory letters to Gilberte which I began to draft.
一个人所爱的人所引起的悲伤可能是痛苦的，即使它夹杂在与该人没有直接关系的全神贯注、职业、快乐之中，而且我们的注意力只是时不时地从这些事情上转移回来。到它。但是，当这样的悲伤诞生时——就像现在正在发生的那样——当我们看到那个人的幸福充满我们而排除其他一切时，剧烈的抑郁就会影响我们的精神，迄今为止阳光明媚，持续而平静，让我们在我们心中掀起了一场狂风暴雨，我们不知道自己是否有能力抗争到底。我心中的风暴如此猛烈，以至于我在回家的路上感到困惑、沮丧，觉得只有原路返回，无论以什么借口回到希尔贝特面前，我才能恢复呼吸。但她会对自己说：‘再回来吧！显然我可以和他做任何事。他每次都会回来，当他离开我的时候，他越可怜，他就会越温顺。”此外，我在思想上不可抗拒地被她吸引，那些不同的方向，那些罗盘之间疯狂的争斗——在我回到家后，我心里的一根针仍然存在，并在我开始起草的写给希尔贝特的相互矛盾的信中表达了出来。

I was about to pass through one of those difficult crises which we generally find that we have to face at various stages in life, and which, for all that there has been no change in our character, in our nature (that nature which itself creates our loves, and almost creates the women whom we love, even to their faults), we do not face in the same way on each occasion, that is to say at every age. At such moments our life is divided, and so to speak distributed over a pair of scales, in two counterpoised pans which between them contain it all. In one there is our desire not to displease, not to appear too humble to the creature whom we love without managing to understand her, but whom we find it more convenient at times to appear almost to disregard, so that she shall not have that sense of her own indis-pensability which may turn her from us; in the other scale there is a feeling of pain—and one that is not localised and partial only—which cannot be set at rest unless, abandoning every thought of pleasing the woman and of making her believe that we can dispense with her, we go at once to find her. When we withdraw from the pan in which our pride lies a small quantity of the will-power which we have weakly allowed to exhaust itself with increasing age, when we add to the pan that holds our suffering a physical pain which we have acquired and have let grow, then, instead of the courageous solution that would have carried the day at one-and-twenty, it is the other, grown too heavy and insufficiently balanced, that crushes us down at fifty. All the more because situations, while repeating them-.selves, tend to alter, and there is every likelihood that, in middle life or in old age, we shall have had the grim satisfaction of complicating our love by an intrusion of habit which adolescence, repressed by other demands upon it, less master of itself, has never known.
我即将经历那些困难的危机之一，我们通常发现我们在人生的各个阶段都必须面对这些危机，尽管如此，我们的性格、我们的本性（本身创造的本性）并没有改变。我们的爱，几乎创造了我们所爱的女人，即使她们有缺点），我们在每种情况下，也就是说在每个年龄段，都不会以同样的方式面对。在这样的时刻，我们的生活被分割，可以说分布在一对天平上，两个平衡的平底锅里，它们之间包含着一切。其中之一是我们希望不让我们所爱的生物不高兴，不表现得过于谦虚，而我们却无法理解她，但我们发现有时表现得几乎无视更方便，这样她就不会有这种感觉她自己的不可或缺性可能会使她远离我们；在另一种尺度中，有一种痛苦的感觉——这种感觉不是局部的、局部的——除非放弃一切取悦女人并让她相信我们可以抛弃她的想法，否则这种感觉无法平静。立刻去找她。当我们从我们的骄傲所在的锅中抽出少量的意志力时，当我们将我们已经获得并已经获得的身体痛苦添加到承受我们痛苦的锅中时，我们已经微弱地允许它随着年龄的增长而耗尽。那么，让我们成长吧，不是用勇敢的解决方案在一二十岁的时候就能度过这一天，而是另一种方法，变得太重且不够平衡，在五十岁的时候把我们压垮了。更重要的是，因为情况，同时重复它们-。自我往往会改变，而且很有可能，在中年或老年时，我们会因习惯的侵入而使我们的爱情复杂化，从而获得一种严峻的满足感，而青春期的习惯被其他要求所压抑，不太能掌握。自己，却从来不知道。

I had just written Gilberte a letter in which I allowed the tempest of my wrath to thunder, not however without throwing her the lifebuoy of a few words disposed as though by accident on the page, by clinging to which my friend might be brought to a reconciliation; a moment later, the wind having changed, they were phrases full of love that I addressed to her, chosen for the sweetness of certain forlorn expressions, those ‘nevermores’ so touching to those who pen them, so wearisome to her who will have to read them, whether she believe them to be false and translate ‘nevermore’ by ‘this very evening, if you want me,’ or believe them to be true and so to be breaking the news to her of one of those final separations which make so little difference to our lives when the other person is one with whom we are not in love. But since we are incapable, while we are in love, of acting as fit predecessors of the next persons whom we shall presently have become, and who will then be in love no longer, how are we to imagine the actual state of mind of a woman whom, even when we are conscious that we are of no account to her, we have perpetually represented in our musings as uttering, so as to lull us into a happy dream or to console us for a great sorrow, the same speeches that she would make if she loved us. When we come to examine the thoughts, the actions of a woman whom we love, we are as completely at a loss as must have been, face to face with the phenomena of nature, the world’s first natural philosophers, before their science had been elaborated and had cast a ray of light over the unknown. Or, worse still, we are like a person in whose mind the law of causality barely exists, a person who would be incapable, therefore, of establishing any connexion between one phenomenon and another, to whose eyes the spectacle of the world would appear unstable as a dream. Of course I made efforts to emerge from this incoherence, to find reasons for things. I tried even to be ‘objective’ and, to that end, to bear well in mind the disproportion that existed between the importance which Gilberte had in my eyes and that, not only which I had in hers, but which she herself had in the eyes of other people, a disproportion which, had I failed to remark it, would have involved my mistaking mere friendliness on my friend’s part for a passionate avowal, and a grotesque and debasing display on my own for the simple and graceful movement with which we are attracted towards a pretty face. But I was afraid also of falling into the contrary error, in which I should have seen in Gilberte’s unpunctuality in keeping an appointment an irremediable hostility. I tried to discover between these two perspectives, equally distorting, a third which would enable me to see things as they really were; the calculations I was obliged to make with that object helped to take my mind off my sufferings; and whether in obedience to the laws of arithmetic or because I had made them give me the answer that I desired, I made up my mind that next day I would go to the Swanns’, happy, but happy in the same way as people who, having long been tormented by the thought of a journey which they have not wished to make, go no farther than to the station and return home to unpack their boxes. And since, while one is hesitating, the bare idea of a possible resolution (unless one has rendered that idea sterile by deciding that one will make no resolution) develops, like a seed in the ground, the lineaments, every detail of the emotions that will be born from the performance of the action, I told myself that it had been quite absurd of me to be as much hurt by the suggestion that I should not see Gilberte again as if I had really been about to put that suggestion into practice, and that since, on the contrary, I was to end by returning to her side, I might have saved myself the expense of all those vain longings and painful acceptances. But this resumption of friendly relations lasted only so long as it took me to reach the Swanns’; not because their butler, who was really fond of me, told me that Gilberte had gone out (a statement the truth of which was confirmed, as it happened, the same evening, by people who had seen her somewhere), but because of the manner in which he said it. ‘Sir, the young lady is not at home; I can assure you, sir, that I am speaking the truth. If you wish to make any inquiries I can fetch the young lady’s maid. You know very well, sir, that I would do everything in my power to oblige you, and that if the young lady was at home I would take you to her at once.’ These words being of the only kind that is really important, that is to say spontaneous, the kind that gives us a radiograph shewing the main points, at any rate, of the unimaginable reality which would be wholly concealed beneath a prepared speech, proved that in Gilberte’s household there was an impression that I bothered her with my visits; and so, scarcely had the man uttered them before they had aroused in me a hatred of which I preferred to make him rather than Gilberte the victim; he drew upon his own head all the angry feelings that I might have had for my friend; freed from these complications, thanks to his words, my love subsisted alone; but his words had, at the same time, shewn me that I must cease for the present to attempt to see Gilberte. She would be certain to write to me, to apologise. In spite of which, I should not return at once to see her, so as to prove to her that I was capable of living without her. Besides, once I had received her letter, Gilberte’s society was a thing with which I should be more easily able to dispense for a time, since I should be certain of finding her ready to receive me whenever I chose. All that I needed in order to support with less pain the burden of a voluntary separation was to feel that my heart was rid of the terrible uncertainty whether we were not irreconcilably sundered, whether she had not promised herself to another, left Paris, been taken away by force. The days that followed resembled the first week of that old New Year which I had had to spend alone, without Gilberte. But when that week had dragged to its end, then for one thing my friend would be coming again to the Champs-Elysées, I should be seeing her as before; I had been sure of that; for another thing, I had known with no less certainty that so long as the New Year holidays lasted it would not be worth my while to go to the Champs-Elysées, which meant that during that miserable week, which was already ancient history, I had endured my wretchedness with a quiet mind because there was blended in it neither fear nor hope. Now, on the other hand, it was the latter of these which, almost as much as my fear of what might happen, rendered intolerable the burden of my grief. Not having had any letter from Gilberte that evening, I had attributed this to her carelessness, to her other occupations, I did not doubt that I should find something from her in the morning’s post. This I awaited, every day, with a beating heart which subsided, leaving me utterly prostrate, when I had found in it only letters from people who were not Gilberte, or else nothing at all, which was no worse, the proofs of another’s friendship making all the more cruel those of her indifference. I transferred my hopes to the afternoon post. Even between the times at which letters were delivered I dared not leave the house, for she might be sending hers by a messenger. Then, the time coming at last when neither the postman nor a footman from the Swanns’ could possibly appear that night, I must procrastinate my hope of being set at rest, and thus, because I believed that my sufferings were not destined to last, I was obliged, so to speak, incessantly to renew them. My disappointment was perhaps the same, but instead of just uniformly prolonging, as in the old days, an initial emotion, it began again several times daily, starting each time with an emotion so frequently renewed that it ended—it, so purely physical, so instantaneous a state—by becoming stabilised, so consistently that the strain of waiting having hardly time to relax before a fresh reason for waiting supervened, there was no longer a single minute in the day in which I was not in that state of anxiety which it is so difficult to bear even for an hour. So my punishment was infinitely more cruel than in those New Year holidays long ago, because this time there was in me, instead of the acceptance, pure and simple, of that punishment, the hope, at every moment, of seeing it come to an end. And yet at this state of acceptance I ultimately arrived; then I understood that it must be final, and I renounced Gilberte for ever, in the interests of my love itself and because I hoped above all that she would not retain any contemptuous memory of me. Indeed, from that moment, so that she should not be led to suppose any sort of lover’s spite on my part, when she made appointments for me to see her I used often to accept them and then, at the last moment, write to her that I was prevented from coming, but with the same protestations of my disappointment that I should have made to anyone whom I had not wished to see. These expressions of regret, which we keep as a rule for people who do not matter, would do more, I imagined, to persuade Gilberte of my indifference than would the tone of indifference which we affect only to those whom we love. When, better than by mere words, by a course of action indefinitely repeated, I should have proved to her that I had no appetite for seeing her, perhaps she would discover once again an appetite for seeing me. Alas! I was doomed to failure; to attempt, by ceasing to see her, to reawaken in her that inclination to see me was to lose her for ever; first of all, because, when it began to revive, if I wished it to last I must not give way to it at once; besides, the most agonising hours would then have passed; it was at this very moment that she was indispensable to me, and I should have liked to be able to warn her that what presently she would have to assuage, by the act of seeing me again, would be a grief so far diminished as to be no longer (what a moment ago it would still have been), nor the thought of putting an end to it, a motive towards surrender, reconciliation, further meetings. And then again, later on, when I should at last be able safely to confess to Gilberte (so far would her liking for me have regained its strength) my liking for her, the latter, not having been able to resist the strain of so long a separation, would have ceased to exist; Gilberte would have become immaterial to me. I knew this, but I could not explain it to her; she would have assumed that if I was pretending that I should cease to love her if I remained for too long without seeing her, that was solely in order that she might summon me back to her at once. In the meantime, what made it easier for me to sentence myself to this separation was the fact that (in order to make it quite clear to her that despite my protestations to the contrary it was my own free will and not any conflicting engagement, not the state of my health that prevented me from seeing her), whenever I knew beforehand that Gilberte would not be in the house, was going out somewhere with a friend and would not be home for dinner, I went to see Mme. Swann who had once more become to me what she had been at the time when I had such difficulty in seeing her daughter and (on days when the latter was not coming to the Champs-Elysées) used to repair to the Allée des Acacias. In this way I should be hearing about Gilberte, and could be certain that she would in due course hear about me, and in terms which would shew her that I was not interested in her. And I found, as all those who suffer find, that my melancholy condition might have been worse. For being free at any time to enter the habitation in which Gilberte dwelt, I constantly reminded myself, for all that I was firmly resolved to make no use of that privilege, that if ever my pain grew too sharp there was a way of making it cease. I was not unhappy, save only from day to day. And even that is an exaggeration. How many times in an hour (but now without that anxious expectancy which had strained every nerve of me in the first weeks after our quarrel, before I had gone again to the Swanns’) did I not repeat to myself the words of the letter which, one day soon, Gilberte would surely send, would perhaps even bring to me herself. The perpetual vision of that imagined happiness helped me to endure the desolation of my real happiness. With women who do not love Us, as with the ‘missing,’ the knowledge that there is no hope left does not prevent our continuing to wait for news. We live on tenterhooks, starting at the slightest sound; the mother whose son has gone to sea on some perilous voyage of discovery sees him in imagination every moment, long after the fact of his having perished has been established, striding into the room, saved by a miracle and in the best of health. And this strain of waiting, according to the strength of her memory and the resistance of her bodily organs, either helps her on her journey through the years, at the end of which she will be able to endure the knowledge that her son is no more, to forget gradually and to survive his loss, or else it kills her.
我刚刚给希尔贝特写了一封信，信中我的怒火如雷霆般袭来，但同时也给她提供了救生圈，其中的几句话似乎是偶然写在纸上的，如果坚持下去，我的朋友可能会陷入困境。和解;过了一会儿，风向变了，我对她说的都是充满爱意的话语，是为了某些凄凉的表情的甜蜜而选择的，那些“永不复返”对那些写下它们的人来说是如此感人，对她来说是如此厌倦，因为她将不得不读它们，无论她相信它们是假的，并将“永远不再”翻译成“今晚，如果你想要我”，还是相信它们是真的，因此向她透露最后的分离之一的消息当我们不爱另一个人时，我们的生活几乎没有什么区别。但是，既然我们在恋爱时无法充当我们即将成为的下一个人的合适前辈，而我们将不再恋爱，那么我们如何想象一个人的实际心理状态呢？即使我们意识到我们对她来说无关紧要，我们也永远在我们的沉思中说着她所说的话，以便让我们陷入幸福的梦境或安慰我们的巨大悲伤，这些话与她所说的相同。如果她爱我们的话就会成功。当我们审视我们所爱的女人的思想和行为时，面对自然现象，面对世界上最早的自然哲学家，在他们的科学尚未得到阐述之前，我们一定会感到完全不知所措。并在未知的事物上投射出一束光。 或者，更糟糕的是，我们就像一个人，在他的头脑中，因果律几乎不存在，因此，他无法在一种现象与另一种现象之间建立任何联系，在他们眼中，世界的景象似乎不稳定。作为一个梦。当然，我努力摆脱这种不连贯的情况，寻找事情的原因。我什至试图做到“客观”，为此，要牢记希尔贝特在我眼中的重要性与我在她眼中的重要性以及她本人在她眼中的重要性之间存在的不相称。如果我没有注意到这一点，我就会把我朋友的单纯友善误认为是热情的表白，而把我自己的怪诞和贬低的表现误认为我们的简单而优雅的动作。被漂亮的脸蛋所吸引。但我也担心陷入相反的错误，在这种错误中，我应该将希尔贝特不守时的约会视为一种无法挽回的敌意。我试图在这两种同样扭曲的观点之间发现第三种观点，它能让我看到事物的本来面目；我不得不对那个物体进行计算，这有助于我把注意力从痛苦中转移开。不管是为了遵守算术定律，还是因为我让他们给了我想要的答案，我决定第二天我就去斯旺家，快乐，但快乐的方式和那些人一样。长期以来，他们一直被不想进行的旅行的想法所折磨，所以只去了车站，然后回家打开行李。 因为，当一个人犹豫不决时，一个可能的解决方案的想法（除非一个人决定不做任何解决方案，从而使这个想法变得贫瘠）就会像地里的一颗种子一样发展起来，它的轮廓和情感的每一个细节都会发展起来。将会从行动的表演中诞生，我告诉自己，我对我不应该再见到希尔贝特的建议感到如此伤害，就像我真的要把这个建议付诸实践一样，这是相当荒谬的，相反，既然我最终要回到她身边，我本可以省去所有这些徒劳的渴望和痛苦的接受。但这种友好关系的恢复只持续了我到达斯旺一家的时间。并不是因为他们非常喜欢我的管家告诉我希尔贝特出去了（这一说法的真实性在当天晚上得到了在某处见过她的人的证实），而是因为他说这句话的方式。 “先生，小姐不在家，先生，我可以向您保证，我说的是实话。如果您有任何疑问，我可以去叫小姐的女仆来。先生，您很清楚，我会尽我所能满足您的要求，如果那位年轻女士在家，我会立即带您去见她。这些话是唯一真正重要的，也就是说，是自发的，它为我们提供了一张射线照片，至少显示了难以想象的现实的要点，而这种现实将完全隐藏在准备好的演讲之下，证明了这一点。在希尔贝特的家里，我的拜访给她留下了一种印象；因此，这个人刚说出这些话，就激起了我的仇恨，我宁愿让他而不是希尔贝特成为受害者。他把我可能对我的朋友产生的所有愤怒情绪都记在了自己的头上。由于他的话语，我的爱情摆脱了这些复杂的情况，得以独自生存。但他的话同时也告诉我，我必须暂时停止尝试去见希尔贝特。她一定会写信给我，向我道歉。尽管如此，我还是不应该立刻回去见她，向她证明没有她我也能活下去。此外，一旦我收到了她的信，我就可以更轻松地暂时摆脱希尔贝特的交往，因为我可以确信，无论何时我选择，她都准备好接待我。为了减轻自愿分离的痛苦，我所需要的只是感觉到我的心摆脱了可怕的不确定性，无论我们是否已经不可调和地分裂，无论她是否将自己许诺给另一个人，离开巴黎，被带走强行离开。接下来的日子就像旧新年的第一周，我不得不独自度过，没有希尔贝特。 但当那一周结束时，一方面，我的朋友会再次来到香榭丽舍大街，我应该像以前一样见到她；另一方面，我也应该像以前一样见到她。我对此深信不疑；另一方面，我同样确定地知道，只要新年假期还在持续，我就不值得去香榭丽舍大街，这意味着在那段已经成为历史的悲惨一周里，我我平静地忍受着我的不幸，因为其中既没有恐惧，也没有希望。现在，另一方面，正是后者，几乎与我对可能发生的事情的恐惧一样，使我的悲伤负担变得无法忍受。那天晚上没有收到希尔贝特的任何来信，我把这归因于她的粗心，归因于她的其他职业，我毫不怀疑我应该在早上的邮件中找到她的东西。我每天都在等待着这一切，心跳平息下来，让我彻底崩溃，当我发现里面只有非希尔贝特的人的来信，或者什么也没有，这并不更糟，是另一个人友谊的证明让她的冷漠更加残酷。我把希望寄托在下午的帖子上。即使在送信的间隙，我也不敢离开家，因为她可能会派信使来寄信。然后，当晚邮递员和斯旺家的男仆都不可能出现的时候，我必须推迟我安息的希望，因此，因为我相信我的痛苦注定不会持续下去，可以说，我不得不不断地更新它们。 我的失望也许是一样的，但不是像过去那样，只是均匀地延长最初的情绪，而是每天再次开始几次，每次都以一种如此频繁地更新的情绪开始，以至于结束——它，如此纯粹的身体，如此瞬时的一种状态——通过变得稳定，如此持续，等待的压力几乎来不及放松，就出现了新的等待理由，一天中我没有一分钟不处于那种焦虑状态。即使是一个小时也很难忍受。所以我的惩罚比很久以前的新年假期要残酷得多，因为这一次我不再单纯地接受这种惩罚，而是每时每刻都希望看到它的实现。结尾。然而我最终还是达到了这种接受状态；然后我明白这一定是最终的决定，为了我的爱情本身，我永远与希尔贝特断绝关系，因为我首先希望她不会对我留下任何轻蔑的记忆。事实上，从那一刻起，为了不让她以为我有任何情人的恶意，当她约我去见她时，我常常接受约见，然后在最后一刻写信给她我被阻止来了，但我也向那些我不想见的人表达了同样的失望之情。我想，我们对无关紧要的人表达遗憾的方式，比我们只对我们所爱的人表现出的冷漠语气更能说服希尔贝特相信我的冷漠。 当我比单纯的言语、无限重复的行动更好地向她证明我没有兴趣见到她时，也许她会再次发现有兴趣见到我。唉!我注定要失败；试图通过不再见到她来重新唤醒她，想要见到我就意味着永远失去她。首先，因为当它开始复苏时，如果我希望它持续下去，我就不能立即屈服于它。此外，最痛苦的时刻已经过去了。就在此时此刻，她对我来说是不可或缺的，我本来希望能够警告她，现在她必须通过再次见到我的行为来缓解悲伤，这种悲伤会大大减弱，以至于不再是（就在刚才它仍然是），也不再有结束它的想法，不再是投降、和解、进一步会面的动机。然后，后来，当我终于能够安全地向希尔贝特坦白时（到目前为止，她对我的好感已经恢复了强度），我对她的喜欢，后者，无法抗拒如此的压力。久别重逢，便不复存在；吉尔贝特对我来说已经变得无关紧要了。我知道这一点，但我无法向她解释；她会认为，如果我假装如果我呆得太久而见不到她，我就会不再爱她，那只是为了让她立即把我召唤回到她身边。 与此同时，让我更容易判自己分居的事实是（为了让她很清楚，尽管我提出相反的抗议，但这是我自己的自由意志，而不是任何相互冲突的订婚，不我的健康状况使我无法见到她），每当我事先知道希尔贝特不会在家，而是要和朋友出去什么地方，并且不会回家吃晚饭时，我就会去看望夫人。斯旺对我来说又变成了当时的样子，当时我很难见到她的女儿，而且（在她不来香榭丽舍大街的日子里）她常常去金合欢巷。这样我就应该听到关于吉尔贝特的事情，并且可以肯定她会在适当的时候听到关于我的事情，并且会向她表明我对她不感兴趣。我发现，正如所有受苦的人所发现的那样，我的忧郁状况可能更糟。因为我可以随时自由地进入希尔贝特居住的住所，所以我不断提醒自己，尽管我决心不利用这一特权，但如果我的痛苦变得太剧烈，有一种方法可以缓解它。停止。我并没有不快乐，只是日复一日。即使这样也有些夸张。一小时内有多少次（但现在不再有那种焦急的期待了，在我们争吵后的头几个星期，在我再次去斯旺家之前，这种期待使我的每一根神经都绷紧了）我没有对自己重复信中的话。不久的将来，希尔贝特肯定会派人来，甚至可能亲自带来给我。对那种想象中的幸福的永恒憧憬帮助我忍受了真正幸福的荒凉。 对于不爱我们的女性，就像“失踪者”一样，知道没有希望并不妨碍我们继续等待消息。我们生活得提心吊胆，一有轻微的声音就开始提心吊胆；一位母亲的儿子在一次危险的发现之旅中出海，在他死亡的事实已经确定很久之后，每时每刻都在想象中看到他，大步走进房间，奇迹般地得救了，而且健康状况良好。这种等待的压力，根据她记忆的强度和身体器官的抵抗力，要么帮助她度过岁月的旅程，最后她将能够忍受她的儿子已经不在的事实。 ，逐渐忘记并度过他的损失，否则就会杀死她。

On the other hand, my grief found consolation in the idea that my love must profit by it. Each visit that I paid to Mme. Swann without seeing Gilberte was a cruel punishment, but I felt that it correspondingly enhanced the idea that Gilberte had of me.
另一方面，我的悲伤在我的爱必须从中受益的想法中得到了安慰。我每次拜访夫人。斯万没有见到希尔贝特是一种残酷的惩罚，但我觉得这相应地增强了希尔贝特对我的看法。

Besides, if I always took care, before going to see Mme. Swann, that there should be no risk of her daughter’s appearing, that arose, it is true, from my determination to break with her, but no less perhaps from that hope of reconciliation which overlay my intention to renounce her (very few of such intentions are absolute, at least in a continuous form, in this human soul of ours, one of whose laws, confirmed by the unlooked-for wealth of illustration that memory supplies, is intermittence), and hid from me all that in it was unbearably cruel. As for that hope, I saw clearly how far it was chimerical. I was like a pauper who moistens his dry crust with fewer tears if he assures himself that, at any moment, a total stranger is perhaps going to leave him the whole of his fortune. We are all of us obliged, if we are to make reality endurable, to nurse a few little follies in ourselves. Now my hope remained more intact—while at the same time our separation became more effectual—if I refrained from meeting Gilberte. If I had found myself face to face with her in her mother’s drawing-room, we might perhaps have uttered irrevocable words which would have rendered our breach final, killed my hope and, on the other hand, by creating a fresh anxiety, reawakened my love and made resignation harder.
此外，如果我在去见夫人之前总是小心的话。斯万先生，她女儿不应该出现，这确实是因为我决定与她决裂，但也可能是因为和解的希望，这种希望覆盖了我与她断绝关系的意图（很少有这样的意图）在我们人类的灵魂中，至少以连续的形式是绝对的，其法则之一是间歇性的，由记忆提供的意想不到的丰富例证所证实），并向我隐藏了其中令人难以忍受的残酷。至于这个希望，我清楚地看到它是多么的不切实际。我就像一个乞丐，如果他向自己保证，在任何时候，一个完全陌生的人可能会把他的全部财产留给他，那么他就会用更少的眼泪来滋润他干燥的外壳。如果我们想让现实变得可以忍受，我们所有人都有义务在自己身上培养一些小愚蠢。现在，如果我不去见希尔贝特，我的希望就更完整了——同时我们的分离也变得更有效。如果我发现自己在她母亲的客厅里与她面对面，我们也许会说出不可挽回的话，这将使我们最终决裂，扼杀我的希望，另一方面，通过制造新的焦虑，重新唤醒我的恐惧。爱让辞职变得更加困难。

Ever so long ago, before I had even thought of breaking with her daughter, Mme. Swann had said to me: ‘It is all very well your coming to see Gilberte; I should like you to come sometimes for my sake, not to my ‘kettledrums,’ which would bore you because there is such a crowd, but on the other days, when you will always find me at home if you come fairly late.’ So that I might be thought, when I came to see her, to be yielding only after a long resistance to a desire which she had expressed in the past. And very late in the afternoon, when it was quite dark, almost at the hour at which my parents would be sitting down to dinner, I would set out to pay Mme. Swann a visit, in the course of which I knew that I should not see Gilberte, and yet should be thinking only of her. In that quarter, then looked upon as remote, of a Paris darker than Paris is to-day, where even in the centre there was no electric light in the public thoroughfares and very little in private houses, the lamps of a drawing-room situated on the ground level, or but slightly raised above it, as were the rooms in which Mme. Swann generally received her visitors, were enough to lighten the street, and to make the passer-by raise his eyes, connecting with their glow, as with its apparent though hidden cause, the presence outside the door of a string of smart broughams. This passer-by was led to believe, not without a certain emotion, that a modification had been effected in this mysterious cause, when he saw one of the carriages begin to move; but it was merely a coachman who, afraid of his horses’ catching cold, started them now and again on a brisk walk, all the more impressive because the rubber-tired wheels gave the sound of their hooves a background of silence from which it stood out more distinct and more explicit.
很久以前，在我什至想到要与她的女儿，夫人分手之前。斯旺对我说：‘你能来见希尔贝特真是太好了；我希望你有时为了我而来，而不是为了我的‘水壶’，因为人太多，这会让你感到厌烦，但在其他日子，如果你来得相当晚，你总是会发现我在家。”因此，当我来见她时，可能会被认为是在长期抵制她过去表达的愿望之后才屈服的。下午很晚的时候，天色已经完全黑了，几乎是我父母坐下来吃晚饭的时候，我就出发去付钱给夫人。想去拜访一下，在这个过程中我知道我不应该见到希尔贝特，但我应该只想到她。在那个当时被视为偏远的地区，巴黎比今天的巴黎还要黑暗，即使在市中心，公共道路上也没有电灯，私人住宅中也很少有电灯，客厅的灯位于位于地面上，或者稍微高于地面，就像夫人的房间一样。斯旺通常接待她的访客，足以照亮街道，让路人抬起眼睛，与他们的光芒联系在一起，就像其明显但隐藏的原因一样，门外有一串聪明的马车。 当这位路人看到其中一辆马车开始移动时，他不无某种情感地相信，这个神秘的原因已经发生了改变。但这只是一个车夫，因为担心他的马着凉，时不时地让它们快步走，更令人印象深刻的是，橡胶轮胎的车轮给马蹄声带来了寂静的背景。变得更加清晰和明确。

The ‘winter-garden,’ of which in those days the passer-by generally caught a glimpse, in whatever street he might be walking, if the drawing-room did not stand too high above the pavement, is to be seen to-day only in photogravures in the gift-books of P. J. Stahl, where, in contrast to the infrequent floral decorations of the Louis XVI drawing-rooms now in fashion—a single rose or a Japanese iris in a long-necked vase of crystal into which it would be impossible to squeeze a second—it seems, because of the profusion of indoor plants which people had then, and of the absolute want of style in their arrangement, as though it must have responded in the ladies whose houses it adorned to some living and delicious passion for botany rather than to any cold concern for lifeless decoration. It suggested to one, only on a larger scale, in the houses of those days, those tiny, portable hothouses laid out on New Year’s morning beneath the lighted lamp—for the children were always too impatient to wait for daylight—among all the other New Year’s presents but the loveliest of them all, consoling them with its real plants which they could tend as they grew for the bareness of the winter soil; and even more than those little houses themselves, those winter-gardens were like the hothouse that the children could see there at the same time, portrayed in a delightful book, another of their presents, and one which, for all that it was given not to them but to Mlle. Lili, the heroine of the story, enchanted them to such a pitch that even now, when they are almost old men and women, they ask themselves whether, in those fortunate years, winter was not the loveliest of the seasons. And inside there, beyond the winter-garden, through the various kinds of arborescence which from the street made the lighted window appear like the glass front of one of those children’s playthings, pictured or real, the passer-by, drawing himself up on tiptoe, would generally observe a man in a frock coat, a gardenia or a carnation in his buttonhole, standing before a seated lady, both vaguely outlined, like two intaglios cut in a topaz, in the depths of the drawing-room atmosphere clouted by the samovar—then a recent importation—with steam which may very possibly be escaping from it still to-day, but to which, if it does, we are grown so accustomed now that no one notices it. Mme. Swann attached great importance to her ‘tea’; she thought that she shewed her originality and expressed her charm when she said to a man, ‘You will find me at home any day, fairly late; come to tea!’ so that she allowed a sweet and delicate smile to accompany the words which she pronounced with a fleeting trace of English accent, and which her listener duly noted, bowing solemnly in acceptance, as though the invitation had been something important and uncommon which commanded deference and required attention. There was another reason, apart from those given already, for the flowers’ having more than a merely ornamental part in Mme. Swann’s drawing-room, and this reason pertained not to the period, but, in some degree, to the former life of Odette. A great courtesan, such as she had been, lives largely for her lovers, that is to say at home, which means that she comes in time to live for her home. The things that one sees in the house of a ‘respectable’ woman, things which may of course appear to her also to be of importance, are those which are in any event of the utmost importance to the courtesan. The culminating point of her day is not the moment in which she dresses herself for all the world to see, but that in which she undresses herself for a man. She must be as smart in her wrapper, in her nightgown, as in her outdoor attire. Other women display their jewels, but as for her, she lives in the intimacy of her pearls. This kind of existence imposes on her as an obligation and ends by giving her a fondness for luxury which is secret, that is to say which comes near to being disinterested. Mme. Swann extended this to include her flowers. There was always beside her chair an immense bowl of crystal filled to the brim with Parma violets or with long white daisy-petals scattered upon the water, which seemed to be testifying, in the eyes of the arriving guest, to some favourite and interrupted occupation, such as the cup of tea which Mme. Swann would, for her own amusement, have been drinking there by herself; an occupation more intimate still and more mysterious, so much so that one felt oneself impelled to apologise on seeing the flowers exposed there by her side, as one would have apologised for looking at the title of the still open book which would have revealed to one what had just been read by—and so, perhaps, what was still in the mind of Odette. And unlike the book the flowers were living things; it was annoying, when one entered the room to pay Mme. Swann a visit, to discover that she was not alone, or if one came home with her not to find the room empty, so prominent a place in it, enigmatic and intimately associated with hours in the life of their mistress of which one knew nothing, did those flowers assume which had not been made ready for Odette’s visitors but, as it were, forgotten there by her, had held and would hold with her again private conversations which one was afraid of disturbing, the secret of which one tried in vain to read, fastening one’s eyes on the moist purple, the still liquid water-colour of the Parma violets. By the end of October Odette would begin to come home with the utmost punctuality for tea, which was still known, at that time, as ‘five-o’clock tea,’ having once heard it said, and being fond of repeating that if Mme. Verdurin had been able to form a salon it was because people were always certain of finding her at home at the same hour. She imagined that she herself had one also, of the same kind, but freer, senza rigore as she used to say. She saw herself figuring thus as a sort of Lespinasse, and believed that she had founded a rival salon by taking from the du Defiant of the little group several of her most attractive men, notably Swann himself, who had followed her in her secession and into her retirement, according-to a version for which one can understand that she had succeeded in gaining credit among her more recent friends, ignorant of what had passed, though without convincing herself. But certain favourite parts are played by us so often before the public and rehearsed so carefully when we are alone that we find it easier to refer to their fictitious testimony than to that of a reality which we have almost entirely forgotten. On days on which Mme. Swann had not left the house, one found her in a wrapper of crêpe-de-Chine, white as the first snows of winter, or, it might be, in one of those long pleated garments of moussettne-de-soie, which seemed nothing more than a shower of white or rosy petals, and would be regarded to-day as hardly suitable for winter, though quite wrongly. For these light fabrics and soft colours gave to a woman—in the stifling warmth of the drawing-rooms of those days, with their heavily curtained doors, rooms of which the most effective thing that the society novelists of the time could find to say was that they were ‘exquisitely cushioned’—the same air of coolness that they gave to the roses which were able to stay in the room there by her side, despite the winter, in the glowing flesh tints of their nudity, as though it were already spring. By reason of the muffling of all sound in the carpets, and of the remoteness of her cosy retreat, the lady of the house, not being apprised of your entry as she is to-day, would continue to read almost until you were standing before her chair, which enhanced still further that sense of the romantic, that charm of a sort of secret discovery, which we find to-day in the memory of those gowns, already out of fashion even then, which Mme. Swann was perhaps alone in not having discarded, and which give us the feeling that the woman who wore them must have been the heroine of a novel because most of us have scarcely set eyes on them outside the pages of certain of Henry Gréville’s tales. Odette had, at this time, in her drawing-room, when winter began, chrysanthemums of enormous size and a variety of colours such as Swann, in the old days, certainly never saw in her drawing-room in the Rue La Pérouse. My admiration for them—when I went to pay Mme. Swann one of those melancholy visits during which, prompted by my sorrow, I discovered in her all the mystical poetry of her character as the mother of that Gilberte to whom she would say on the morrow: ‘Your friend came to see me yesterday,’—sprang, no doubt, from my sense that, rose-pale like the Louis XIV silk that covered her chairs, snow-white like her crêpe-de-Chine wrapper, or of a metallic red like her samovar, they superimposed upon the decoration of the room another, a supplementary scheme of decoration, as rich, as delicate in its colouring, but one which was alive and would last for a few days only. But I was touched to find that these chrysanthemums appeared less ephemeral than, one might almost say, lasting, when I compared them with the tones, as pink, as coppery, which the setting sun so gorgeously displays amid the mists of a November afternoon, and which, after seeing them, before I had entered the house, fade from the sky, I found again inside, prolonged, transposed on to the flaming palette of the flowers. Like the fires caught and fixed by a great colourist from the impermanence of the atmosphere and the sun, so that they should enter and adorn a human dwelling, they invited me, those chrysanthemums, to put away all my sorrows and to taste with a greedy rapture during that ‘tea-time’ the too fleeting joys of November, of which they set ablaze all around me the intimate and mystical glory. Alas, it was not in the conversations to which I must listen that I could hope to attain to that glory; they had but little in common with it. Even with Mme. Cottard, and although it was growing late, Mme. Swann would assume her most caressing manner to say: ‘Oh, no, it’s not late, really; you mustn’t look at the clock; that’s not the right time; it’s stopped; you can’t possibly have anything else to do now, why be in such a hurry?’ as she pressed a final tartlet upon the Professor’s wife, who was gripping her card-case in readiness for flight.
那时，路人无论走在哪条街上，只要客厅不是离人行道太高，通常都会瞥见“冬季花园”，而今天却可以看到它。仅出现在 P. J. Stahl 礼品书中的凹版照片中，与现在流行的路易十六客厅中罕见的花卉装饰形成鲜明对比——长颈水晶花瓶中插着一朵玫瑰或一朵日本鸢尾。不可能再挤出一秒钟的时间了——看来，因为当时人们拥有大量的室内植物，而且它们的布置绝对缺乏风格，似乎它一定会回应那些用它装饰房子的女士们。对植物学的热情，而不是对毫无生气的装饰的冷漠关注。它让人想起，只是在更大的规模上，在那些日子的房子里，那些在新年早晨在点燃的灯下布置的小型便携式温室——因为孩子们总是太不耐烦地等待日光——除此之外新年礼物是所有礼物中最可爱的，用真正的植物来安慰他们，当它们在冬天的裸露土壤中生长时，他们可以照料它们；甚至比那些小房子本身更重要的是，那些冬季花园就像孩子们可以同时看到的温室，在一本令人愉快的书中描绘，这是他们的另一件礼物，尽管它被给予了，但它并不存在。对他们，但对女士。故事的女主人公莉莉让他们如此着迷，以至于即使现在，当他们几乎年老时，他们也会问自己，在那些幸运的岁月里，冬天是否不是最可爱的季节。 在里面，在冬季花园的另一边，透过各种树丛，从街道上看去，照亮的窗户看起来就像那些儿童玩具之一的玻璃正面，无论是图画还是真实的，路人踮起脚尖，通常会观察到一个穿着礼服的男人，扣眼里插着一朵栀子花或一朵康乃馨，站在一位坐着的女士面前，两者的轮廓都模糊不清，就像黄玉上雕刻的两个凹雕，在客厅气氛的深处，被茶炊——当时是最近进口的——带有蒸汽，很可能今天仍然在从它中逸出，但如果有的话，我们现在已经习惯了，没有人注意到它。女士。斯旺非常重视她的“茶”。她认为，当她对一个男人说：“任何一天你都会在家里找到我，很晚了；”时，她展现了自己的独创性并表达了自己的魅力。来喝茶吧！”这样，她的话语中就带着甜美而精致的微笑，她的发音带有一丝英国口音，而她的听众也注意到了这一点，庄严地鞠了一躬表示接受，就好像邀请是一件重要的事情，不常见，值得尊重并需要关注。除了已经给出的原因之外，还有另一个原因，这些花对夫人的作用不仅仅是装饰性的。斯旺的客厅，这个原因与那个时期无关，但在某种程度上与奥黛特的前世生活有关。一个伟大的妓女，像她一样，主要是为她的情人而活，也就是说，在家里，这意味着她及时地为她的家而活。 人们在一位“受人尊敬的”女人家里看到的东西，当然对她来说可能也很重要的东西，无论如何对妓女来说都是最重要的。她这一天的高潮不是她为全世界的人打扮自己的那一刻，而是她为一个男人脱光衣服的那一刻。她的外套、睡衣和户外服装一定一样漂亮。其他女人展示她们的珠宝，但对她来说，她生活在珍珠的亲密之中。这种存在对她来说是一种义务，最终让她对奢侈产生了一种秘密的、近乎无私的喜爱。女士。斯旺将这一点扩展到包括她的花。她的椅子旁边总是放着一个巨大的水晶碗，碗里装满了帕尔马紫罗兰或长长的白色雏菊花瓣散落在水面上，在到来的客人眼中，这似乎证明了一些最喜欢的但被中断的职业，比如女士的那杯茶。斯万会为了自己的消遣而独自在那里喝酒。这是一种更亲密、更神秘的职业，以至于人们在看到她身边暴露的花朵时感到自己不得不道歉，就像人们会因为看到一本仍然打开的书的标题而道歉一样，这本书会向人们透露。刚才读到的内容——也许，奥黛特脑子里还残留着什么。与书不同的是，花朵是有生命的东西。当有人进入房间付钱给女士时，这很烦人。 斯旺去拜访，发现她并不孤单，或者如果有人和她一起回家，也不会发现房间空着，房间里如此显眼，神秘莫测，与情妇生活中的几个小时密切相关，而人们对此一无所知那些花是否认为，它们还没有为奥黛特的来访者做好准备，但事实上，却被她遗忘在那里，曾经并且将再次与她进行私人谈话，人们害怕打扰，人们徒劳地尝试秘密谈话阅读时，将目光集中在帕尔马紫罗兰那湿润的紫色、静止的液体水彩上。到了十月底，奥黛特开始准时回家喝茶，当时，这仍然被称为“五点钟茶”，因为曾经听过这个说法，并且喜欢重复这句话，如果女士。维尔迪兰之所以能够成立一个沙龙，是因为人们总能确定在同一时间在家中找到她。她想象着她自己也有一个，同样的，但更自由，正如她常说的森扎严格。她认为自己是莱斯皮纳斯的一种，并相信她通过从这个小团体的杜反抗者中挑选了几个最有魅力的男人，特别是斯旺本人，建立了一个竞争对手的沙龙，斯旺本人在她的分裂中跟随她并进入了社会。她退休了，根据一种版本，人们可以理解她已经成功地在最近的朋友中赢得了信任，尽管她无法说服自己，但对过去的事情一无所知。但是，我们经常在公众面前扮演某些最喜欢的部分，并在独自一人时仔细排练，以至于我们发现引用他们虚构的证词比引用我们几乎完全忘记的现实更容易。女士的日子。 斯万还没有离开家，有人发现她穿着一件双绉裹布，洁白得像冬天的第一场雪，或者，可能是，穿着一件穆塞特苏伊长褶衣服，看起来像是只不过是一阵白色或玫瑰色的花瓣雨，今天人们会认为它不太适合冬天，尽管这是完全错误的。因为这些轻薄的织物和柔和的色彩赋予了一个女人——在当时客厅里令人窒息的温暖，门上挂着厚厚的窗帘，当时的社会小说家能找到的最有效的说法是它们被“精美地缓冲”——它们给玫瑰带来了同样的凉爽空气，尽管是冬天，玫瑰仍然能够留在她身边的房间里，在它们裸体的发光的肉色中，仿佛它已经存在了。春天。由于地毯上的所有声音都被消音，而且她舒适的隐居地又偏僻，女主人不会像今天这样被告知您的到来，她几乎会继续阅读，直到您站在面前。她的椅子，进一步增强了那种浪漫感，一种秘密发现的魅力，我们今天在那些礼服的记忆中发现了这种感觉，即使在当时，这些礼服已经过时了。斯旺也许是唯一一个没有丢弃它们的人，这让我们感觉穿着它们的女人一定是小说中的女主角，因为我们大多数人在亨利·格雷维尔的某些故事之外几乎没有见过它们。此时，冬初，奥黛特的客厅里摆满了尺寸巨大、颜色多样的菊花，像斯万以前在拉佩鲁斯街的客厅里从未见过的菊花。当我去付钱给夫人时，我对他们感到钦佩。 斯旺是那些忧郁的拜访之一，在这期间，在我的悲伤的驱使下，我在她身上发现了她作为希尔贝特母亲的所有神秘诗意，第二天她会对希尔贝特说：“你的朋友昨天来看我了，” ——毫无疑问，从我的感觉来看，它们像覆盖在椅子上的路易十四丝绸一样淡玫瑰色，像她的双绉包装纸一样雪白，或者像她的茶炊一样金属红色，它们叠加在装饰上另一个房间是一种补充性的装饰方案，色彩同样丰富、精致，但它是有生命的，只能持续几天。但我很感动地发现，当我将这些菊花与粉红色、铜色的色调进行比较时，这些菊花显得不那么短暂，人们几乎可以说是持久，夕阳在十一月下午的薄雾中如此绚丽地展现出这些色调，在看到它们之后，在我进入房子之前，它从天空中消失，我再次在里面发现，延长，转移到火焰般的花朵调色板上。就像一位伟大的色彩学家从无常的大气和阳光中捕捉并固定了火焰，以便它们进入并装饰人类的住所一样，它们邀请我，那些菊花，抛开我所有的悲伤，贪婪地品尝。在那段“下午茶时间”中，我欣喜若狂，十一月的欢乐转瞬即逝，它们在我周围点燃了亲密而神秘的荣耀。唉，我并不是在必须聆听的谈话中才有望获得那种荣耀。他们与它几乎没有共同之处。即使和夫人。科塔尔，虽然天色已晚，但夫人。 斯万会用她最亲切的方式说：“哦，不，现在还不算晚，真的；”你不能看时钟；那不是正确的时间；它已经停止了； “你现在不可能有​​别的事可做，为什么这么着急呢？”她把最后一块馅饼压在教授的妻子身上，教授的妻子正抓着名片盒准备逃跑。

‘One simply can’t tear oneself away from this house!’ observed Mme. Bontemps to Mme. Swann, while Mme. Cottard, in her astonishment at hearing her own thought put into words, exclaimed: ‘Why, that’s just what I always say myself, what I tell my own little judge, in the court of conscience!’ winning the applause of the gentlemen from the Jockey Club, who had been profuse in their salutations, as though confounded at such an honour’s being done them, when Mme. Swann had introduced them to this common and by no means attractive little woman, who kept herself, when confronted with Odette’s brilliant friends, in reserve, if not on what she herself called ‘the defensive,’ for she always used stately language to describe the simplest happenings. ‘I should never have suspected it,’ was Mme. Swann’s comment, ‘three Wednesdays running you’ve played me false.’ ‘That’s quite true, Odette; it’s simply ages, it’s an eternity since I saw you last. You see, I plead guilty; but I must tell you,’ she went on with a vague suggestion of outraged modesty, for although a doctor’s wife she would never have dared to speak without periphrasis of rheumatism or of a chill on the kidneys,’ that I have had a lot of little troubles. As we all have, I dare say. And besides that I’ve had a crisis among my masculine domestics. I’m sure, I’m no more imbued with a sense of my own authority than most ladies; still I’ve been obliged, just to make an example you know, to give my Vatel notice; I believe he was looking out anyhow for a more remunerative place. But his departure nearly brought about the resignation of my entire ministry. My own maid refused to stay in the house a moment longer; oh, we have had some Homeric scenes. However I held fast to the reins through thick and thin; the whole affair’s been a perfect lesson, which won’t be lost on me, I can tell you. I’m afraid I’m boring you with all these stories about servants, but you know as well as I do what a business it is when one is obliged to set about rearranging one’s household.
“一个人根本无法离开这座房子！”夫人评论道。邦当夫人致夫人。斯旺，而夫人。科塔尔在听到自己的想法被用语言表达出来时感到惊讶，她惊呼道：“啊，这就是我自己经常说的话，我在良心法庭上对我自己的小法官说的话！”赢得了来自绅士们的掌声。赛马俱乐部，他们一直在向他们致意，好像对他们获得这样的荣誉感到困惑，当夫人。斯旺向他们介绍了这个平凡且毫无吸引力的小女人，当她面对奥黛特的才华横溢的朋友时，她总是保持着保留，即使不是她自己所说的“防守”，因为她总是用庄严的语言来描述她的性格。最简单的事情。 “我根本不应该怀疑这一点，”夫人说。斯旺的评论是：“连续三个星期三你都欺骗了我。”自从我上次见到你以来，已经是一个世纪了。你看，我认罪了； “但我必须告诉你，”她带着一种愤怒的谦虚的含糊暗示继续说道，因为虽然她是一名医生的妻子，但她从来不敢在不隐喻风湿病或肾寒的情况下说话，“我已经经历过很多次了。”小麻烦。我敢说，正如我们所有人一样。除此之外，我的男性家庭成员也遇到了危机。我确信，我并不比大多数女士更有权威感。尽管如此，我还是不得不向我的瓦岱勒发出通知，只是为了举个例子。我相信他无​​论如何都在寻找一个报酬更高的职位。但他的离开几乎导致我整个部委的辞职。我自己的女仆拒绝在屋子里多呆一会儿。哦，我们有一些荷马史诗的场景。 但无论风雨无阻，我都紧紧抓住缰绳；整个事件对我来说是一次完美的教训，我可以告诉你。我担心我讲的这些关于仆人的故事会让你感到厌烦，但你和我一样清楚，当一个人不得不着手重新安排自己的家庭时，这是一件多么痛苦的事情。

‘Aren’t we to see anything of your delicious child?’ she wound up. ‘No, my delicious child is dining with a friend,’ replied Mme. Swann, and then, turning to me: ‘I believe she’s written to you, asking you to come and see her to-morrow. And your babies?’ she went on to Mme. Cottard. I breathed a sigh of relief. These words by which Mme. Swann proved to me that I oould see Gilberte whenever I chose gave me precisely the comfort which I had come to seek, and which at that time made my visits to Mme. Swann so necessary. ‘No, I’m afraid not; I shall write to her, anyhow, this evening. Gilberte and I never seem to see one another now,’ I added, pretending to attribute our separation to some mysterious agency, which gave me a further illusion of being in love, supported as well by the affectionate way in which I spoke of Gilberte and she of me. ‘You know, she’s simply devoted to you,’ said Mme. Swann. ‘Really, you won’t come to-morrow?’ Suddenly my heart rose on wings; the thought had just struck me—‘After all, why shouldn’t I, since it’s her own mother who suggests it?’ But with the thought I fell back into my old depression. I was afraid now lest, when she saw me again, Gilberte might think that my indifference of late had been feigned, and it seemed wiser to prolong our separation. During these asides Mme. Bontemps had been complaining of the insufferable dulness of politicians’ wives, for she pretended to find everyone too deadly or too stupid for words, and to deplore her husband’s official position. ‘Do you mean to say you can shake hands with fifty doctors’ wives, like that, one after the other?’ she exclaimed to Mme. Cottard, who, unlike her, was full of the kindest feelings for everybody and of determination to do her duty in every respect. ‘Ah! you’re a law-abiding woman! You see, in my case’, at the Ministry, don’t you know, I simply have to keep it up, of course. It’s too much for me, I can tell you; you know what those officials’ wives are like, it’s all I can do not to put my tongue out at them. And my niece Albertine is just like me. You really wouldn’t believe the impudence that girl has. Last week, on my ‘day,’ I had the wife of the Under Secretary of State for Finance, who told us that she knew nothing at all about cooking. ‘But surely, ma’am,’ my niece chipped in with her most winning smile, ‘you ought to know everything about it, after all the dishes your father had to wash.’’ ‘Oh, I do love that story; I think it’s simply exquisite!’ cried Mme. Swann. ‘But certainly on the Doctor’s consultation days you should make a point of being ‘at home,’ among your flowers and books and all your pretty things,’ she urged Mme. Cottard. ‘Straight out like that! Bang! Right in the face; bang! She made no bones about it, I can tell you! And she’d never said a word to me about it, the little wretch; she’s as cunning as a monkey. You are lucky to be able to control yourself; I do envy people who can hide what is in their minds.’ ‘But I’ve no need to do that, Mme. Bontemps, I’m not so hard to please,’ Mme. Cottard gently expostulated. ‘For one thing, I’m not in such a privileged position,’ she went on, slightly raising her voice as was her custom, as though she were underlining the point of her remark, whenever she slipped into the conversation any of those delicate courtesies, those skilful flatteries which won her the admiration and assisted the career of her husband. ‘And besides I’m only too glad to do anything that can be of use to the Professor.’
“我们不是要看看你那可爱的孩子吗？”她说道。 “不，我可爱的孩子正在和朋友一起吃饭，”夫人回答道。斯旺，然后转向我：“我相信她写信给你，请你明天来看她。你的孩子们呢？”她继续对夫人说道。科塔尔。我松了一口气。女士的这些话。斯万向我证明，只要我愿意，我就可以见到希尔贝特，这正是我来寻求的安慰，这正是我当时拜访夫人的原因。斯旺很有必要。 “不，恐怕不是；”无论如何，今晚我要给她写信。希尔贝特和我现在似乎从未见过对方。”我补充道，假装将我们的分离归因于某种神秘的力量，这给了我一种进一步的相爱的幻觉，而我谈论希尔贝特和她时深情的方式也支持了这一点。她对我。 “你知道，她只是对你一心一意，”夫人说。斯旺。 “你明天真的不来吗？”突然我的心飞了起来。我刚刚想到了这一点——“毕竟，既然是她自己的母亲建议的，我为什么不应该这么做呢？”但想到这里，我又陷入了以前的沮丧之中。我现在担心，当希尔贝特再次见到我时，她可能会认为我最近的冷漠是假装的，延长我们的分离时间似乎更明智。在这些旁白期间，女士。邦当普斯一直抱怨政客的妻子们令人难以忍受的愚蠢，因为她假装发现每个人都太致命或太愚蠢而无法言语，并对她丈夫的官方地位感到遗憾。 “你的意思是说你可以和五十位医生的妻子握手，就像这样，一个接一个地握手吗？”她对夫人喊道。科塔尔与她不同，她对每个人都充满了最友善的感情，并决心在各方面履行自己的职责。 '啊！ 你是一个遵纪守法的女人！你看，就我而言，在魔法部，你不知道吗，当然，我必须坚持下去。我可以告诉你，这对我来说太过分了；你知道那些官员的妻子是什么样的，我只能不去对她们吐舌头。我的侄女阿尔贝蒂娜和我一样。你真的不会相信那个女孩的厚颜无耻。上周，在我的“一天”，财政部副国务卿的妻子告诉我们，她对烹饪一无所知。 “但是，女士，”我的侄女带着她最迷人的微笑插话道，“在你父亲不得不洗那么多盘子之后，你应该知道这一切。”我觉得这简直太精致了！”女士喊道。斯旺。 “但当然，在医生咨询的日子里，你应该强调‘在家里’，在你的鲜花、书籍和所有漂亮的东西中间，”她敦促夫人。科塔尔。 ‘就这样直接出去吧！砰!就在脸上；砰！她毫不掩饰这一点，我可以告诉你！她从来没有对我说过这件事，这个小坏蛋；她像猴子一样狡猾。你很幸运能够控制自己；我确实羡慕那些能够隐藏自己内心想法的人。” “但我没有必要这样做，夫人。邦当普斯，我没那么难取悦，”夫人。科塔尔温和地劝告道。 “首先，我没有处于这样的特权地位，”她继续说道，按照她的习惯，稍微提高了声音，仿佛她在强调她的话的要点，每当她插入谈话时，任何微妙的事情都会发生。礼节，那些巧妙的奉承，赢得了她的钦佩，并帮助了她丈夫的事业。 “此外，我很高兴能为教授做任何有用的事情。’

‘But, my dear, it isn’t what one’s glad to do; it’s what one is able to do! I expect you’re not nervous. Do you know, whenever I see the War Minister’s wife making faces, I start copying her at once. It’s a dreadful thing to have a temperament like mine.’
“但是，亲爱的，这不是一个人乐意做的事；这是一个人能够做到的！我希望你不紧张。你知道吗，每当我看到陆军部长夫人做鬼脸时，我都会立即模仿她。像我这样的脾气是一件可怕的事情。

‘To be sure, yes,’ said Mme. Cottard, ‘I’ve heard people say that she had a twitch; my husband knows someone else who occupies a very high position, and it’s only natural, when gentlemen get talking together...’
“当然，是的，”夫人说。科塔尔，“我听人们说她抽搐了；我丈夫认识一个地位很高的人，君子在一起说话也是理所当然的……”

‘And then, don’t you know, it’s just the same with the Chief of the Registry; he’s a hunchback. Whenever he comes to see me, before he’s been in the room five minutes my fingers are itching to stroke his hump. My husband says I’ll cost him his place. What if I do! A fig for the Ministry! Yes, a fig for the Ministry! I should like to have that printed as a motto on my notepaper. I can see I am shocking you; you’re so frightfully proper, but I must say there’s nothing amuses me like a little devilry now and then. Life would be dreadfully monotonous without it.’ And she went on talking about the Ministry all the time, as though it had been Mount Olympus. To change the conversation, Mme. Swann turned to Mme. Cottard: ‘But you’re looking very smart to-day. Redfern fecit?’
‘然后，你难道不知道吗，登记处处长也是如此；他是个驼背人。每当他来看我时，在他进房间五分钟之前，我的手指就会痒痒地抚摸他的驼峰。我丈夫说我会让他失去他的位置。如果我这样做怎么办！内阁的无花果！是的，这是部委的无花果！我希望将其作为座右铭印在我的信纸上。我看得出来我让你震惊了；你说得太得体了，但我必须说，没有什么比时不时的一点点恶作剧更让我开心的了。没有它，生活将会变得非常单调。”她一直在谈论魔法部，就好像它是奥林匹斯山一样。为了改变谈话，女士。斯万转向夫人。科塔尔：“但是你今天看起来很聪明。”雷德芬的成就？

‘No, you know, I always swear by Rauthnitz. Besides, it’s only an old thing I’ve had done up.’ ‘Not really! It’s charming!’
“不，你知道，我总是向劳特尼茨发誓。再说了，这只是我已经完成的旧事了。”真迷人！

‘Guess how much.... No, change the first figure!’
“猜猜有多少……不，改变第一个数字！”

‘You don’t say so! Why, that’s nothing; it’s given away! Three times that at least, I should have said.’ ‘You see how history comes to be written,’ apostrophised the doctor’s wife. And pointing to a neck-ribbon which had been a present from Mme. Swann: ‘Look, Odette! Do you recognise this?’
‘你不这么说！哎呀，那没什么；它被赠送了！ “至少是这个数字的三倍，我应该这么说。” “你知道历史是如何被书写的，”医生的妻子撇撇嘴说道。并指着一条颈带，这是夫人送给我的礼物。斯旺：‘看，奥黛特！你认得这个吗？

Through the gap between a pair of curtains a head peeped with ceremonious deference, making a playful pretence of being afraid of disturbing the party; it was Swann. ‘Odette, the Prince d’Agrigente is with me in the study. He wants to know if he may pay his respects to you. What am I to tell him?’ ‘Why, that I shall be delighted,’ Odette would reply, secretly flattered, but without losing anything of the composure which came to her all the more easily since she had always, even in her ‘fast’ days, been accustomed to entertain men of fashion. Swann disappeared to deliver the message, and would presently return with the Prince, unless in the meantime Mme. Verdurin had arrived. When he married Odette Swann had insisted on her ceasing to frequent the little clan. (He had several good reasons for this stipulation, though, had he had none, he would have made it just the same in obedience to a law of ingratitude which admits no exception, and proves that every ‘go-between’ is either lacking in foresight or else singularly disinterested.) He had conceded only that Odette and Mme. Verdurin might exchange visits once a year, and even this seemed excessive to some of the ‘faithful,’ indignant at the insult offered to the ‘Mistress’ who for so many years had treated Odette and even Swann himself as the spoiled children of her house. For if it contained false brethren who ‘failed’ upon certain evenings in order that they might secretly accept an invitation from Odette, ready, in the event of discovery, with the excuse that they were anxious to meet Bergotte (although the Mistress assured them that he never went to the Swanns’, and even if he did, had no vestige of talent, really—in spite of which she was making the most strenuous efforts, to quote one of her favourite expressions, to ‘attract’ him), the little group had its ‘die-hards’ also. And these, though ignorant of those conventional refinements which often dissuade people from the extreme attitude one would have liked to see them adopt in order to annoy some one else, would have wished Mme. Verdurin, but had never managed to prevail upon her, to sever all connection with Odette, and thus deprive Odette of the satisfaction of saying, with a mocking laugh: ‘We go to the Mistress’s very seldom now, since the Schism. It was all very well while my husband was still a bachelor, but when one is married, you know, it isn’t always so easy.... If you must know, M. Swann can’t abide old Ma Verdurin, and he wouldn’t much like the idea of my going there regularly, as I used to. And I, as a dutiful spouse, don’t you see...?’ Swann would accompany his wife to their annual evening there but would take care not to be in the room when Mme. Verdurin came to call. And so, if the ‘Mistress’ was in the drawing-room, the Prince d’Agrigente would enter it alone. Alone, too, he was presented to her by Odette, who preferred that Mme. Verdurin should be left in ignorance of the names of her humbler guests, and so might, seeing more than one strange face in the room, be led to believe that she was mixing with the cream of the aristocracy, a device which proved so far successful that Mme. Verdurin said to her husband, that evening, with profound contempt: ‘Charming people, her friends! I met all the fine flower of the Reaction!’ Odette was living, with respect to Mme. Verdurin, under a converse illusion. Not that the latter’s salon had ever begun, at that time, to develop into what we shail one day see it to have become. Mme. Verdurin had not yet reached the period of incubation in which one dispenses with one’s big parties, where the few brilliant specimens recently acquired would be lost in too numerous a crowd, and prefers to wait until the generative force of the ten righteous whom one has succeeded in attracting shall have multiplied those ten seventyfold. As Odette was not to be long now in doing, Mme. Verdurin did indeed entertain the idea of ‘Society’ as her final objective, but her zone of attack was as yet so restricted, and moreover so remote from that in which Odette had some chance of arriving at an identical goal, of breaking the line of defence, that the latter remained absolutely ignorant of the strategic plans which the ‘Mistress’ was elaborating. And it was with the most perfect sincerity that Odette, when anyone spoke to her of Mme. Verdurin as a snob, would answer, laughing, ‘Oh, no, quite the opposite! For one thing, she never gets a chance of being a snob; she doesn’t know anyone. And then, to do her justice, I must say that she seems quite pleased not to know anyone. No, what she likes are her Wednesdays, and people who talk well.’ And in her heart of hearts she envied Mme. Verdurin (for all that she did not despair of having herself, in so eminent a school, succeeded in acquiring them) those arts to which the ‘Mistress’ attached such paramount importance, albeit they did but discriminate, between shades of the Non-existent, sculpture the void, and were, properly speaking, the Arts of Nonentity: to wit those, in the lady of a house, of knowing how to ‘bring people together,’ how to ‘group,’ to ‘draw out,’ to ‘keep in the background,’ to act as a ‘connecting link.’
一个头从窗帘的缝隙中探出头来，一副恭敬的样子，装出一副怕打扰聚会的样子。是斯旺。 “奥黛特，阿格里让特王子和我一起在书房里。他想知道是否可以向你表示敬意。我该告诉他什么呢？”“哎呀，我会很高兴的，”奥黛特会回答，心里暗自受宠若惊，但她并没有失去任何镇静，因为她一直以来，即使是在“禁食”的时候，也更容易保持镇静。 ' 的日子里，已经习惯了招待时尚男士。斯旺失踪去传递消息，不久就会与王子一起返回，除非在此期间夫人。维尔迪兰已经到了。当他与奥黛特·斯旺结婚时，他坚持要求她不再经常光顾这个小家族。 （不过，他对这一规定有几个充分的理由，如果他没有的话，他也会按照忘恩负义的法则做出同样的规定，这一法则不允许有例外，并证明每一个“中间人”要么缺乏（要么是有远见，要么是极其无私。）他只承认奥黛特和夫人。维尔迪兰也许每年会互访一次，但即便如此，对于一些“忠实的”人来说，这也显得有些过分，他们对“女主人”受到的侮辱感到愤怒，多年来，“女主人”一直把奥黛特，甚至斯旺本人当作家里被宠坏的孩子。 。 因为如果里面有假弟兄，他们在某些晚上“失败”，以便秘密接受奥黛特的邀请，准备好，以防万一被发现，借口是他们急于见到贝戈特（尽管女主人向他们保证，他从来没有去过斯旺家，即使去了，也没有任何才华的痕迹，真的——尽管如此，她还是在尽最大的努力，引用她最喜欢的表达方式之一，来“吸引”他），小团体也有其“顽固分子”。这些人虽然不了解那些传统的文雅，这些传统文雅往往会阻止人们采取极端态度，人们希望看到他们采取这种极端态度来惹恼别人，但他们还是希望夫人。维尔迪兰，但从未设法说服她，断绝与奥黛特的一切联系，从而剥夺了奥黛特满意地说，带着嘲讽的笑声：“自从分裂以来，我们现在很少去女主人家了。”当我丈夫还是个单身汉时，一切都很好，但是当一个人结婚时，你知道，这并不总是那么容易……如果你一定要知道的话，斯旺先生不能忍受老马维尔迪兰，而且他不太喜欢我像以前那样定期去那里。而我，作为一个尽职的配偶，你难道没有看到……吗？”斯旺会陪伴他的妻子参加他们一年一度的晚会，但会注意当夫人时不在房间里。维尔迪兰来拜访。因此，如果“情妇”在客厅，阿格里让特亲王就会独自进入。奥黛特也独自一人把他介绍给她，奥黛特更喜欢那位夫人。 维尔迪兰应该不知道她的卑微客人的名字，这样，在房间里看到不止一张陌生的面孔时，她可能会相信她正在与贵族精英混在一起，这一策略迄今为止被证明是成功的那位女士。那天晚上，维尔迪兰带着深深的轻蔑对她的丈夫说：“迷人的人，她的朋友们！我遇到了所有反应中的优秀之花！”奥黛特还活着，尊重夫人。维尔迪兰，处于相反的幻觉之下。后者的沙龙当时并没有开始发展成为我们有一天会看到的样子。女士。维尔迪兰还没有达到无需举办大型聚会的孵化期，新近获得的少数杰出标本就会淹没在太多的人群中，他宁愿等到已经成功的十位正义者的生成力吸引的力量将增加十七十倍。奥黛特夫人很快就会这样做。维尔迪兰确实把“社会”作为她的最终目标，但她的攻击范围还很有限，而且离奥黛特有机会达到相同目标、打破界限的距离还很遥远。辩解说，后者仍然完全不知道“女主人”正在制定的战略计划。当有人向奥黛特谈及夫人时，她的态度是极其真诚的。韦尔迪兰是个势利小人，他会笑着回答：“哦，不，恰恰相反！”一方面，她从来没有机会成为一个势利小人；另一方面，她也没有机会成为一个势利小人。她谁也不认识。然后，公平地说，我必须说，她似乎很高兴不认识任何人。不，她喜欢的是她的星期三，以及那些能言善道的人。”她在内心深处羡慕着夫人。 维尔迪兰（尽管如此，她并不绝望，在如此杰出的学校里，她成功地获得了这些艺术）那些“女主人”如此重视的艺术，尽管它们确实区分了不存在的阴影，雕塑虚空，正确地说，是无足轻重的艺术：也就是说，在一位房子里的女士身上，知道如何“将人们聚集在一起”，如何“分组”，“吸引”， “保持在后台”，充当“连接纽带”。’

In any case, Mme. Swann’s friends were impressed when they saw in her house a lady of whom they were accustomed to think only as in her own, in an inseparable setting of her guests, amid the whole of her little group which they were astonished to behold thus suggested, summarised, assembled, packed into a single armchair in the bodily form of the ‘Mistress,’ the hostess turned visitor, muffled in her cloak with its grebe trimming, as shaggy as the white skins that carpeted that drawing-room embowered in which Mme. Verdurin was a drawing-room in herself. The more timid among the women thought it prudent to retire, and using the plural, as people do when they mean to hint to the rest of the room that it is wiser not to tire a convalescent who is out of bed for the first time: ‘Odette,’ they murmured, ‘we are going to leave you.’ They envied Mme. Cottard, whom the ‘Mistress’ called by her Christian name. ‘Can I drop you anywhere?’ Mme. Verdurin asked her, unable to bear the thought that one of the faithful was going to remain behind instead of following her from the room. ‘Oh, but this lady has been so very kind as to say, she’ll take me,’ replied Mme. Cottard, not wishing to appear to be forgetting, when approached by a more illustrious personage, that she had accepted the offer which Mme. Bontémps had made of driving her home behind her cockaded coachman. ‘I must say that I am always specially grateful to the friends who are so kind as to take me with them in their vehicles. It is a regular godsend to me, who have no Automedon.’ ‘Especially,’ broke in the ‘Mistress,’ who felt that she must say something, since she knew Mme. Bontémps slightly and had just invited her to her Wednesdays, ‘as at Mme. de Crécy’s house you’re not very near home. Oh, good gracious, I shall never get into the way of saying Mme. Swann!’ It was a recognised pleasantry in the little clan, among those who were not overendowed with wit, to pretend that they could never grow used to saying ‘Mme. Swann.’ ‘I have been so accustomed to saying Mme. de Crécy that I nearly went wrong again!’ Only Mme. Verdurin, when she spoke to Odette, was not content with the nearly, but went wrong on purpose. ‘Don’t you feel afraid, Odette, living out in the wilds like this? I’m sure I shouldn’t feel at all comfortable, coming home after dark. Besides, it’s so damp. It can’t be at all good for your husband’s eczema. You haven’t rats in the house, I hope!’ ‘Oh, dear no. What a horrid idea!’ ‘That’s a good thing; I was told you had. I’m glad to know it’s not true, because I have a perfect horror of the creatures, and I should never have come to see you again. Goodbye, my dear child, we shall meet again soon; you know what a pleasure it is to me to see you. You don’t know how to put your chrysanthemums in water,’ she went on, as she prepared to leave the room, Mme. Swann having risen to escort her. ‘They are Japanese flowers; you must arrange them the same way as the Japanese.’ ‘I do not agree with Mme. Verdurin, although she is the Law and the Prophets to me in all things! There’s no one like you, Odette, for finding such lovely chrysanthemums, or chrysanthema rather, for it seems that’s what we ought to call them now,’ declared Mme. Cottard as soon as the ‘Mistress’ had shut the door behind her. ‘Dear Mme. Verdurin is not always very kind about other people’s flowers,’ said Odette sweetly. ‘Whom do you go to, Odette,’ asked Mme. Cottard, to forestall any further criticism of the ‘Mistress.’ ‘Lemaître? I must confess, the other day in Lemaître’s window I saw a huge, great pink bush which made me do something quite mad.’ But modesty forbade her to give any more precise details as to the price of the bush, and she said merely that the Professor, ‘and you know, he’s not at all a quicktempered man,’ had ‘waved his sword in the air’ and told her that she ‘didn’t know what money meant.’ ‘No, no, I’ve no regular florist except Debac.’ ‘Nor have I,’ said Mme. Cottard, ‘but I confess that I am unfaithful to him now and then with Lachaume.’ ‘Oh, you forsake him for Lachaume, do you; I must tell Debac that,’ retorted Odette, always anxious to shew her wit, and to lead the conversation in her own house, where she felt more at her ease than in the little clan. ‘Besides, Lachaume is really becoming too dear; his prices are quite excessive, don’t you know; I find his prices impossible!’ she added, laughing.
无论如何，女士。斯万的朋友们在她的房子里看到一位女士时印象深刻，他们习惯于认为她只是在她自己的家里，在她的客人密不可分的环境中，在她的整个小团体中，他们惊讶地看到这样暗示，总结聚集在一起，以“情妇”的身体形式挤在一张单人扶手椅上，女主人变成了访客，裹在带有鸊鷉装饰的斗篷中，就像客厅里铺着地毯的白色皮肤一样蓬松。维尔迪兰本身就是一间​​客厅。女性中比较胆怯的人认为退休是明智之举，并使用复数形式，就像人们在向房间里的其他人暗示最好不要让第一次下床的康复者感到疲劳时所做的那样： “奥黛特，”他们低声说道，“我们要离开你了。”他们羡慕奥黛特夫人。科塔尔，“情妇”用她的教名称呼她。 “我可以送你去任何地方吗？”维尔迪兰问她，一想到其中一名信徒会留下来而不是跟着她离开房间，她就无法忍受。 “哦，但是这位女士非常友善地说，她会带我去，”夫人回答道。科塔尔不想让别人忘记，当一位更杰出的人物接近她时，她已经接受了科塔尔夫人的提议。邦腾普斯习惯在戴着徽章的车夫后面开车送她回家。 “我必须说，我一直特别感谢那些好心的朋友，他们用车载着我。对没有奥托墨冬的我来说，这是天赐之物。邦腾普斯微微一笑，刚刚邀请她参加周三的活动，“就像在夫人那里一样”。 de Crécy 的房子，你离家不太近。 哦，天哪，我永远不会妨碍说“夫人”。斯旺！”在这个小家族里，对于那些才智不过分的人来说，假装永远不习惯说“斯旺女士”是一种公认​​的乐趣。 “我已经习惯说‘斯万女士’了。”德·克雷西说我差点又犯错了！维尔迪兰在与奥黛特交谈时，并不满足于现状，而是故意出错。 “奥黛特，像这样生活在野外，你不感到害怕吗？我确信天黑后回家我会感到一点不舒服。另外，这里太潮湿了。这对你丈夫的湿疹根本没有好处。我希望你家里没有老鼠！” “噢，天哪，没有。多么可怕的想法啊！”有人告诉我你有。我很高兴知道这不是真的，因为我对这些生物非常恐惧，我不应该再来看你。再见，我亲爱的孩子，我们很快就会再相见；你知道见到你我是多么高兴。你不知道如何把菊花放在水里，”她继续说道，准备离开房间，夫人。斯旺起身护送她。 “它们是日本花； “我不同意夫人的观点。”维尔迪兰，尽管她在所有事情上都是我的律法和先知！奥杰特，没有人能像你一样找到如此可爱的菊花，或者更确切地说，是菊花，因为看来我们现在应该这样称呼它们。” “女主人”一关上门，科塔尔就走了。 ‘亲爱的夫人。维尔迪兰并不总是对别人的花很友善。”奥黛特甜甜地说。 “奥黛特，你去找谁？”科塔尔，以防止对“情妇”有任何进一步的批评。“勒梅特？ 我必须承认，有一天，我在勒梅特家的窗户上看到一株巨大的粉红色灌木丛，这让我做了一件非常疯狂的事情。”但出于谦虚，她不允许透露有关灌木丛价格的任何更准确的细节，她只是说教授，“你知道，他根本不是一个脾气暴躁的人”，“在空中挥舞着剑”并告诉她，她“不知道金钱意味着什么。”“不，不，我没有“我也没有，”夫人说。科塔尔，“但我承认我时不时地对拉乔姆不忠。”“哦，你为了拉乔姆而抛弃了他，是吗？”我必须告诉德巴克这一点，”奥黛特反驳道，她总是渴望展示自己的智慧，并在自己家里主导谈话，在那里她比在小家族里感到更自在。 “此外，拉乔姆真的变得太贵了；他的价格相当高，你知道吗？我发现他的价格不可能！”她笑着补充道。

Meanwhile Mme. Bontemps, who had been heard a hundred times to declare that nothing would induce her to go to the Verdurins’, delighted at being asked to the famous Wednesdays, was planning in her own mind how she could manage to attend as many of them as possible. She was not’ aware that Mme. Verdurin liked people not to miss a single one; also she was one of those people whose company is but little sought, who, when a hostess invites them to a series of parties, do not accept and go to them without more ado, like those who know that it is always a pleasure to see them, whenever they have a moment to spare and feel inclined to go out; people of her type deny themselves it may be the first evening and the third, imagining that their absence will be noticed, and save themselves up for the second and fourth, unless it should happen that, having heard from a trustworthy source that the third is to be a particularly brilliant party, they reverse the original order, assuring their hostess that ‘most unfortunately, we had another engagement last week.’ So Mme. Bontemps was calculating how many Wednesdays there could still be left before Easter, and by what means she might manage to secure one extra, and yet not appear to be thrusting herself upon her hostess. She relied upon Mme. Cottard, whom she would have with her in the carriage going home, to give her a few hints. ‘Oh, Mme. Bontemps, I see you getting up to go; it is very bad of you to give the signal for flight like that! You owe me some compensation for not turning up last Thursday.... Come, sit down again, just for a minute. You can’t possibly be going anywhere else before dinner. Really, you won’t let yourself be tempted?’ went on Mme. Swann, and, as she held out a plate of cakes, ‘You know, they’re not at all bad, these little horrors. They don’t look nice, but just taste one, I know you’ll like it.’ ‘On the contrary, they look quite delicious,’ broke in Mme. Cottard. ‘In your house, Odette, one is never short of victuals. I have no need to ask to see the trade-mark; I know you get everything from Rebattet. I must say that I am more eclectic. For sweet biscuits and everything of that sort I repair, as often as not, to Bourbonneux. But I agree that they simply don’t know what an ice means. Rebattet for everything iced, and syrups and sorbets; they’re past masters. As my husband would say, they’re the ne plus ultra.’ ‘Oh, but we just make these in the house. You won’t, really?’ ‘I shan’t be able to eat a scrap of dinner,’ pleaded Mme. Bontemps, ‘but I will just sit down again for a moment; you know, I adore talking to a clever woman like you.’ ‘You will think me highly indiscreet, Odette, but I should so like to know what you thought of the hat Mme. Trombert had on. I know, of course, that big hats are the fashion just now. All the same, wasn’t it just the least little bit exaggerated? And compared to the hat she came to see me in the other day, the one she had on just now was microscopic!’ ‘Oh no, I am not at all clever,’ said Odette, thinking that this sounded well. ‘I am a perfect simpleton, I believe everything people say, and worry myself to death over the least thing.’ And she insinuated that she had, just at first, suffered terribly from the thought of having married a man like Swann, who had a separate life of his own and was unfaithful to her. Meanwhile the Prince d’Agrigente, having caught the words ‘I am not at all clever,’ thought it incumbent on him to protest; unfortunately he had not the knack of repartee. ‘Tut, tut, tut, tut!’ cried Mme. Bontemps, ‘Not clever; you!’ ‘That’s just what I was saying to myself—‘What do I hear?’,’ the Prince clutched at this straw, ‘My ears must have played me false!’ ‘No, I assure you,’ went on Odette, ‘I am really just an ordinary woman, very easily shocked, full of prejudices, living in my own little groove and dreadfully ignorant.’ And then, in case he had any news of the Baron de Charlus, ‘Have you seen our dear Baronet?’ she asked him. ‘You, ignorant!’ cried Mme. Bontemps. ‘Then I wonder what you’d say of the official world, all those wives of Excellencies who can talk of nothing but their frocks.... Listen to this, my friend; not more than a week ago I happened to mention Lohengrin to the Education Minister’s wife. She stared at me, and said ‘Lohengrin? Oh, yes, the new review at the Folies-Bergères. I hear it’s a perfect scream!’ What do you say to that, eh? You can’t help yourself; when people say things like that it makes your blood boil. I could have struck her. Because I have a bit of a temper of my own. What do you say, sir;’ she turned to me, ‘was I not right?’ ‘Listen,’ said Mme. Cottard, ‘people can’t help answering a little off the mark when they’re asked a thing like that point blank, without any warning. I know something about it, because Mme. Verdurin also has a habit of putting a pistol to your head.’ ‘Speaking of Mme. Verdurin,’ Mme. Bontemps asked Mme. Cottard, ‘do you know who will be there on Wednesday? Oh, I’ve just remembered that we’ve accepted an invitation for next Wednesday. You wouldn’t care to dine with us on Wednesday week? We could go on together to Mme. Verdurin’s. I should never dare to go there by myself; I don’t know why it is, that great lady always terrifies me.’ ‘I’ll tell you what it is,’ replied Mme. Cottard, ‘what frightens you about Mme. Verdurin is her organ. But you see everyone can’t have such a charming organ as Mme. Swann. Once you’ve found your tongue, as the ‘Mistress’ says, the ice will soon be broken. For she’s a very easy person, really, to get on with. But I can quite understand what you feel; it’s never pleasant to find oneself for the first time in a strange country.’ ‘Won’t you dine with us, too?’ said Mme. Bontemps to Mme. Swann. ‘After dinner we could all go to the Verdurins’ together, ‘do a Verdurin’; and even if it means that the ‘Mistress’ will stare me out of countenance and never ask me to the house again, once we are there we’ll just sit by ourselves and have a quiet talk, I’m sure that’s what I should like best.’ But this assertion can hardly have been quite truthful, for Mme. Bontemps went on to ask: ‘Who do you think will be there on Wednesday week? What will they be doing? There won’t be too big a crowd, I hope!’ ‘I certainly shan’t be there,’ said Odette. ‘We shall just look in for a minute on the last Wednesday of all. If you don’t mind waiting till then——‘ But Mme. Bontemps did not appear to be tempted by the proposal.
与此同时，夫人。邦当普斯已经被听到一百次了，她声称没有什么可以诱使她去维尔迪兰家，她很高兴被邀请去著名的星期三，她正在自己的心里计划着如何能够参加尽可能多的活动。 。她不知道夫人。维尔迪兰希望人们不要错过任何一个。她也是那些很少有人寻求陪伴的人之一，当女主人邀请他们参加一系列聚会时，她不会接受并毫不犹豫地去参加他们，就像那些知道见到总是很高兴的人一样每当他们有空闲时间并想出去时；她这种类型的人否认自己这可能是第一个晚上和第三个晚上，想象他们的缺席会被注意到，并为第二个和第四个晚上保留自己，除非发生这种情况，因为从可靠的来源听说第三个晚上是为了成为一个特别精彩的聚会，他们颠倒了原来的顺序，向女主人保证“最不幸的是，我们上周还有另一次约会。”邦当普斯正在计算复活节前还有多少个星期三，以及她可以通过什么方式设法多争取到一个星期三，但又不会显得把自己强加给女主人。她依靠夫人。回家的马车上她会和科塔尔一起，给她一些提示。哦，夫人。邦当普斯，我看到你起身要走；你这样发出飞行信号真是太糟糕了！你上周四没来，欠我一些补偿……来吧，再坐下来，就一会儿。晚饭前你不可能去其他地方。真的，你不会让自己受到诱惑吗？”夫人继续说道。 斯旺，当她递出一盘蛋糕时，“你知道，这些小恐怖一点也不坏。它们看起来不好看，但尝一尝，我知道你会喜欢的。” “相反，它们看起来很好吃，”夫人插话道。科塔尔。 “奥黛特，在你家里从来不缺食物。我不需要要求看商标；我知道你从 Rebattet 得到了一切。我必须说我更加不拘一格。为了吃甜饼干和类似的东西，我经常去波旁纽。但我同意他们根本不知道冰意味着什么。 Rebattet 适用于所有冰镇食品、糖浆和冰糕；他们是过去的大师。正如我丈夫所说，它们是最优秀的。”“哦，但我们只是在家里做这些。 “我连一点晚餐都吃不下，”夫人恳求道。 Bontemps，“但我会再坐下来一会儿；” “你会认为我非常不检点，奥黛特，但我很想知道你对这顶帽子的看法。”特朗伯特穿着。我当然知道，大帽子现在很流行。话虽如此，是不是有点夸张了呢？和那天她来看我时戴的那顶帽子相比，她刚才戴的那顶帽子简直太小了！” “我是个十足的傻瓜，人们说什么我都相信，一点小事都会让自己担心得要死。”她暗示说，一想到要嫁给斯旺这样的男人，她就感到非常痛苦。他有自己的独立生活，并对她不忠。 与此同时，阿格里让特亲王听到“我一点也不聪明”这句话，认为他有责任提出抗议。不幸的是，他没有妙语连珠的技巧。 “哎呀，哎呀，哎呀，哎呀！”夫人喊道。邦当，“不聪明； “我就是这么对自己说的——‘我听到了什么？’，”王子紧紧抓住这根稻草，“我的耳朵一定是听错了！”“不，我向你保证，”奥黛特继续说道。 “我真的只是一个普通的女人，很容易感到震惊，充满偏见，生活在我自己的小圈子里，无知得可怕。”然后，万一他有任何关于德·夏吕斯男爵的消息，“你看到我们亲爱的了吗？” “从男爵？”她问他。 “你，无知！”夫人叫道。邦当普斯。 “那我想知道你对官方世界有什么看法，那些除了礼服之外什么都不能谈论的阁下的夫人……听着，我的朋友；不到一周前，我碰巧向教育部长的妻子提到了罗恩格林。她盯着我说：‘罗恩格林？哦，是的，Folies-Bergères 的新评论。我听说这是一声完美的尖叫！’你对此有何看法，嗯？你无法控制自己；当人们说这样的话时，你会热血沸腾。我本来可以打她的。因为我自己也有一点脾气。先生，您怎么说？”她转向我，“我说得对吗？” “听着，”夫人说。科塔尔说，“当人们在没有任何警告的情况下被直白地问到这样的问题时，他们会情不自禁地回答得有点离题。我对此有所了解，因为女士。维尔迪兰还有一个习惯，就是用手枪指着你的头。维尔迪兰夫人。邦当普斯夫人问道。科塔尔，‘你知道周三谁会在那里吗？哦，我刚刚想起来我们接受了下周三的邀请。您不愿意在周三与我们一起用餐吗？ 我们可以一起去见夫人。维尔迪兰的。我绝对不敢一个人去那里；我不知道为什么，那位伟大的女士总是让我害怕。” “我会告诉你那是什么，”夫人回答道。科塔尔，“科塔尔女士让你感到害怕的是什么？”维尔迪兰是她的管风琴。但你看，不可能每个人都拥有像Mme女士这样迷人的器官。斯旺。一旦你找到了自己的舌头，就像“情妇”所说的那样，坚冰很快就会被打破。因为她真的是一个很容易相处的人。但我很能理解你的感受； “你不也和我们一起吃饭吗？”夫人说。邦当夫人致夫人。斯旺。 “晚饭后我们可以一起去维尔迪兰”，“做一场维尔迪兰”；即使这意味着“女主人”会瞪着我看我的脸，再也不会邀请我去房子，一旦我们到了那里，我们就会独自坐在一起安静地交谈，我确信这就是我应该做的但对于夫人来说，这种说法很难说是完全正确的。邦当普斯接着问道：“你认为周三谁会在那里？他们会做什么？ “我当然不会去那里，”奥黛特说。 “我们将在最后一个星期三查看一分钟。如果你不介意等到那时——”但是夫人。邦当普斯似乎并没有被这个提议所吸引。

Granted that the intellectual distinction of a house and its smartness are generally in inverse rather than direct ratio, one must suppose, since Swann found Mme. Bontemps attractive, that any forfeiture of position once accepted has the consequence of making us less particular with regard to the people among whom we have resigned ourselves to finding entertainment, less particular with regard to their intelligence as to everything else about them. And if this be true, men, like nations, must see their culture and even their language disappear with their independence. One of the effects of this indulgence is to aggravate the tendency which after a certain age we have towards finding pleasure in speeches that are a homage to our own turn of mind, to our weaknesses, an encouragement to us to yield to them; that is the age at which a great artist prefers to the company of original minds that of pupils who have nothing in common with him save the letter of his doctrine, who listen to him and offer incense; at which a man or woman of mark, who is living entirely for love, will find that the most intelligent person in a gathering is one perhaps of no distinction, but one who has shewn by some utterance that he can understand and approve what is meant by an existence devoted to gallantry, and has thus pleasantly excited the voluptuous instincts of the lover or mistress; it was the age, too, at which Swann, in so far as he had become the husband of Odette, enjoyed hearing Mme. Bontemps say how silly it was to have nobody in one’s house but duchesses (concluding from that, quite the contrary of what he would have decided in the old days at the Verdurins’, that she was a good creature, extremely sensible and not at all a snob) and telling her stories which made her ‘die laughing’ because she had not heard them before, although she always ‘saw the point’ at once, liked flattering her for his own amusement. ‘Then the Doctor is not mad about flowers, like you?’ Mme. Swann asked Mme. Cottard. ‘Oh, well, you know, my husband is a sage; be practises moderation in all things. Yet, I must admit, he has a passion.’ Her eye aflame with malice, joy, curiosity, ‘And what is that, pray?’ inquired Mme. Bontemps. Quite simply Mme. Cottard answered her, ‘Reading.’ ‘Oh, that’s a very restful passion in a husband!’ cried Mme. Bontemps suppressing an impish laugh. ‘When the Doctor gets a book in his hands, you know!’ ‘Well, that needn’t alarm you much...’ ‘But it does, for his eyesight. I must go now and look after him, Odette, and I shall come back on the very first opportunity and knock at your door. Talking of eyesight, have you heard that the new house Mme. Verdurin has just bought is to be lighted by electricity? I didn’t get that from my own little secret service, you know, but from quite a different source; it was the electrician himself, Mildé, who told me. You see, I quote my authorities! Even the bedrooms, he says, are to have electric lamps with shades which will filter the light. It is evidently a charming luxury, for those who can afford it. But it seems that our contemporaries must absolutely have the newest thing if it’s the only one of its kind in the world. Just fancy, the sister-in-law of a friend of mine has had the telephone installed in her house! She can order things from her tradesmen without having to go out of doors! I confess that I’ve made the most bare-faced stratagems to get permission to go there one day, just to speak into the instrument. It’s very tempting, but more in a friend’s house than at home. I don’t think I should like to have the telephone in my establishment. Once the first excitement is over, it must be a perfect racket going on all the time. Now, Odette, I must be off; you’re not to keep Mme. Bontemps any longer, she’s looking after me. I must absolutely tear myself away; you’re making me behave in a nice way, I shall be getting home after my husband!’
考虑到一所房子的智力特征和它的聪明程度通常是成反比而不是正比，人们必须假设，因为斯万发现了夫人。邦当的吸引力在于，一旦放弃任何职位，都会导致我们对那些我们已经屈从于寻找娱乐的人不再那么挑剔，对他们的智力和其他一切都不再那么挑剔。如果这是真的，那么人类就像国家一样，必须看到他们的文化甚至语言随着独立而消失。这种放纵的影响之一是加剧了一种倾向，即在一定年龄后，我们倾向于从那些向我们自己的思想倾向、我们的弱点致敬、鼓励我们屈服于这些弱点的演讲中寻找乐趣。在这个时代，伟大的艺术家宁愿与那些有独到见解的学生为伍，而这些学生除了教义的文字外，与他毫无共同之处，他们听他讲课并上香。一个完全为爱而活的有名望的男人或女人会发现，聚会中最聪明的人也许是一个没有什么区别的人，但他通过某种话语表明他能够理解和赞同其中的含义。献身于献殷勤的存在，从而愉快地激发了情人或情妇的性感本能；也是在这个年纪，斯旺已经成为奥黛特的丈夫，很喜欢听夫人的讲话。 邦当普斯说，除了公爵夫人之外，家里没有人是多么愚蠢（由此得出的结论，与他过去在维尔迪兰家的决定完全相反，她是一个好人，非常明智，而且一点也不一个势利小人），给她讲故事，这些故事让她“笑死了”，因为她以前从未听过这些故事，尽管她总是立刻“明白要点”，喜欢为了自己的娱乐而奉承她。 “那么博士并不像你一样对花很着迷？”斯万问夫人。科塔尔。 ‘哦，好吧，你知道，我的丈夫是一位圣人；凡事都要保持适度。然而，我必须承认，他有激情。”她的眼睛里闪烁着恶意、喜悦和好奇，“请问，那是什么？邦当普斯。很简单，女士。科塔尔回答她：“读书。”“哦，这是丈夫的一种非常平静的热情！”邦当普斯强忍着顽皮的笑声。 “当博士手里拿着一本书时，你知道！” “好吧，这不必让你太惊慌……” “但对于他的视力来说，确实如此。我现在必须去照顾他，奥黛特，一有机会我就会回来敲你的门。说到视力，你听说过新房子吗？维尔迪兰刚买的就是用电照明的吗？你知道，我不是从我自己的小特工处得到的，而是从完全不同的来源得到的。是电工米尔德本人告诉我的。你看，我引用了我的权威！他说，就连卧室也要配备带灯罩的电灯，以过滤光线。对于那些买得起的人来说，这显然是一种迷人的奢侈品。但如果它是世界上独一无二的，我们同时代的人肯定拥有最新的东西。 想想看，我一个朋友的嫂子家里装了电话！她不用出门就可以向商人订购东西！我承认，为了有一天能获得前往那里的许可，我做了最赤裸裸的策略，只是为了对着仪器说话。这很诱人，但更多的是在朋友家里而不是在家里。我认为我不应该喜欢在我的机构里放置电话。一旦第一次兴奋结束，接下来的比赛一定会一直持续下去。现在，奥黛特，我必须走了；你不能留住夫人。邦当不再是她了，她在照顾我。我必须彻底放弃自己；你让我表现得很好，我会跟着我丈夫回家的！’

And for myself also it was time to return home, before I had tasted those wintry delights of which the chrysanthemums had seemed to me to be the brilliant envelope. These pleasures had not appeared, and yet Mme. Swann did not look as though she expected anything more. She allowed the servants to carry away the tea-things, as who should say ‘Time, please, gentlemen!’ And at last she did say to me: ‘Really, must you go? Very well; good-bye!’ I felt that I might have stayed there without encountering those unknown pleasures, and that my unhappiness was not the cause of my having to forego them. Were they to be found, then, situated not upon that beaten track of hours which leads one always to the moment of departure, but rather upon some cross-road unknown to me along which I ought to have digressed? At least, the object of my visit had been attained; Gilberte would know that I had come to see her parents when she was not at home, and that I had, as Mme. Cottard had incessantly assured me, ‘made a complete conquest, first shot, of Mme. Verdurin,’ whom, she added, she had never seen ‘make so much’ of anyone. (“You and she must have hooked atoms.’) She would know that I had spoken of her as was fitting, with affection, but that I had not that incapacity for living without our seeing one another which I believed to be at the root of the boredom that she had shewn at our last meetings. I had told Mme. Swann that I should not be able to see Gilberte again. I had said this as though I had finally decided not to see her any more. And the letter which I was going to send Gilberte would be framed on those lines. Only to myself, to fortify my courage, I proposed no more than a supreme and concentrated effort, lasting a few days only. I said to myself: ‘This is the last time that I shall refuse to meet her; I shall accept the next invitation.’ To make our separation less difficult to realise, I did not picture it to myself as final. But I knew very well that it would be.
对我自己来说，也是时候回家了，在我品尝那些冬日的喜悦之前，菊花对我来说似乎是灿烂的信封。这些快乐还没有出现，然而夫人。斯旺看起来似乎并没有期待更多。她让仆人们把茶具拿走，就像谁应该说‘先生们，时间到了！’最后她确实对我说：‘真的，你必须走吗？很好;再见！”我觉得我可能呆在那里，不会遇到那些未知的快乐，而且我的不快乐并不是我不得不放弃它们的原因。那么，他们是否不是位于那条总是让人到达出发时刻的人迹罕至的地方，而是位于某个我不知道的十字路口，而我本应该沿着这条路离开的呢？至少，我此行的目的达到了；希尔贝特会知道，当她不在家时，我来看望了她的父母，而我，作为希尔贝特夫人，也知道了。科塔尔不断地向我保证，“第一枪就完全征服了夫人”。她补充道，她从未见过维尔迪兰对任何人“如此重视”。 （“你和她一定是原子之间的钩子。”）她会知道我对她的评价是恰当的、充满感情的，但我并不是没有能力在没有见面的情况下生活，我认为这是根源上次我们见面时她表现出的无聊。我已经告诉过夫人了。斯旺说我应该再也见不到希尔贝特了。我这么说就好像我最终决定不再见到她一样。我要寄给希尔贝特的信将用这些线条装框。只是对我自己来说，为了增强我的勇气，我提出的不过是尽全力、集中精力、持续几天而已。 我对自己说：‘这是我最后一次拒绝见她；我将接受下一次邀请。”为了让我们的分离不那么难以实现，我并没有把它想象成最终的结局。但我很清楚会是这样。

The first of January was exceptionally painful to me that winter. So, no doubt, is everything that marks a date and an anniversary when we are unhappy. But if our unhappiness is due to the loss of some dear friend, our suffering consists merely in an unusually vivid comparison of the present with the past. There was added to this, in my case, the unexpressed hope that Gilberte, having intended to leave me to take the first steps towards a reconciliation, and discovering that I had not taken them, had been waiting only for the excuse of New Year’s Day to write to me, saying: ‘What is the matter? I am madly in love with you; come, and let us explain things properly; I cannot live without seeing you.’ As the last days of the old year went by, such a letter began to seem probable. It was, perhaps, nothing of the sort, but to make us believe that such a thing is probable the desire, the need that we have for it suffices. The soldier is convinced that a certain interval of time, capable of being indefinitely prolonged, will be allowed him before the bullet finds him, the thief before he is taken, men in general before they have to die. That is the amulet which preserves people—and sometimes peoples—not from danger but from the fear of danger, in reality from the belief in danger, which in certain cases allows them to brave it without their actually needing to be brave. It is confidence of this sort, and with as little foundation, that sustains the lover who is counting upon a reconciliation, upon a letter. For me to cease to expect a letter it would have sufficed that I should have ceased to wish for one. However unimportant one may know that one is in the eyes of her whom one still loves, one attributes to her a series of thoughts (though their sum-total be indifference) the intention to express those thoughts, a complication of her inner life in which one is the constant object possibly of her antipathy but certainly of her attention. But to imagine what was going on in Gilberte’s mind I should have required simply the power to anticipate on that New Year’s Day what I should feel on the first day of any of the years to come, when the attention or the silence or the affection or the coldness of Gilberte would pass almost unnoticed by me and I should not dream, should not even be able to dream of seeking a solution of problems which would have ceased to perplex me. When we are in love, our love is too big a thing for us to be able altogether to contain it within us. It radiates towards the beloved object, finds in her a surface which arrests it, forcing it to return to its starting-point, and it is this shock of the repercussion of our own affection which we call the other’s regard for ourselves, and which pleases us more then than on its outward journey because we do not recognise it as having originated in ourselves. New Year’s Day rang out all its hours without there coming to me that letter from Gilberte. And as I received a few others containing greetings tardy or retarded by the overburdening of the mails at that season, on the third and fourth of January I hoped still, but my hope grew hourly more faint. Upon the days that followed I gazed through a mist of tears. This undoubtedly meant that, having been less sincere than I thought in my renunciation of Gilberte, I had kept the hope of a letter from her for the New Year. And seeing that hope exhausted before I had had time to shelter myself behind another, I suffered as would an invalid who had emptied his phial of morphia without having another within his reach. But perhaps also in my case—and these two explanations are not mutually exclusive, for a single feeling is often made up of contrary elements—the hope that I entertained of ultimately receiving a letter had brought to my mind’s eye once again the image of Gilberte, had reawakened the emotions which the expectation of finding myself in her presence, the sight of her, her way of treating me had aroused in me before. The immediate possibility of a reconciliation had suppressed in me that faculty the immense importance of which we are apt to overlook: the faculty of resignation. Neurasthenics find it impossible to believe the friends who assure them that they will gradually recover their peace of mind if they will stay in bed and receive no letters, read no newspapers. They imagine that such a course will only exasperate their twitching nerves. And similarly lovers, who look upon it from their enclosure in a contrary state of mind, who have not begun yet to make trial of it, are unable to believe in the healing power of renunciation.
那年冬天的一月一日对我来说异常痛苦。因此，毫无疑问，当我们不开心时，一切标志着约会和周年纪念日的事情都是如此。但是，如果我们的不幸是由于失去了某个亲爱的朋友，那么我们的痛苦仅仅在于现在与过去的异常生动的比较。除此之外，就我而言，吉尔贝特本来打算让我迈出和解的第一步，但发现我没有采取这些措施，所以一直在等待元旦的借口，她没有表达出希望。写信给我说：‘怎么了？我疯狂地爱着你；来吧，让我们好好地解释一下；没有见到你我就活不下去。”随着旧一年的最后几天，这样一封信开始显得很有可能。也许不是这样的，但让我们相信这样的东西很可能是我们对它的渴望和需要就足够了。士兵确信，在子弹击中他之前，在他被子弹击中之前，在他被抓走之前，他会被允许一段时间，并且可以无限期地延长，在他被抓住之前，一般人在他们必须死之前，会被允许一段时间。这是保护人们——有时是人民——的护身符，不是让他们远离危险，而是让他们远离对危险的恐惧，实际上是让人们相信危险，在某些情况下，危险让他们能够勇敢地面对危险，而不需要真正勇敢。正是这种毫无基础的信心，支撑着指望和解、指望一封信的情人。对我来说，不再期待一封信就足够了，我不再希望收到一封信。 无论人们知道自己在她眼中仍然是所爱的人，这一点多么不重要，人们都会将一系列的想法（尽管它们的总和是冷漠的）归因于她，并表达这些想法的意图，这是她内心生活的复杂化，其中其中一个可能是她反感的对象，但肯定是她关注的对象。但是，要想象希尔贝特的心里在想什么，我只需要有能力在元旦那天预测我在未来任何一年的第一天会感受到什么，当关注或沉默或感情或希尔贝特的冷漠几乎不会被我注意到，我不应该梦想，甚至不应该梦想寻求解决问题的办法，而这些问题将不再困扰我。当我们恋爱时，我们的爱太大了，我们无法完全将其容纳在我们内心。它向心爱的对象辐射，在她身上找到一个吸引它的表面，迫使它回到它的起点，正是这种我们自己的感情的反响所带来的震撼，我们称之为对方对自己的尊重，并且令人高兴那时我们比它的外在旅程更多，因为我们不承认它起源于我们自己。元旦已经过去了，我却没有收到吉尔贝特的信。当我收到其他几封问候语时，由于那个季节的邮件负担过重，迟到了或迟缓了，一月三日和四日我仍然抱有希望，但我的希望每小时都变得更加微弱。接下来的日子里，我泪流满面。这无疑意味着，我在与希尔贝特断绝关系时并没有想象中那么真诚，仍然希望能收到她的新年信。 当我还没来得及把自己藏在另一个人后面时，看到这种希望就已经耗尽了，我的痛苦就像一个病人喝空了他的小瓶吗啡，而他手边却找不到另一瓶吗啡一样。但也许就我而言——这两种解释并不相互排斥，因为单一的感觉往往是由相反的元素组成的——我最终收到一封信的希望再次浮现在我的脑海中，希尔贝特的形象再次出现在我的脑海中。 ，重新唤醒了我以前因期望能在她面前、看到她、看到她对​​待我的方式而激起的情感。和解的直接可能性压制了我的一种我们很容易忽视的极其重要的能力：顺从的能力。神经衰弱患者无法相信那些向他们保证只要卧床不起、不收信、不看报纸就会逐渐恢复内心平静的朋友。他们认为这样的做法只会激怒他们抽搐的神经。同样地，那些在封闭环境中以相反的心态看待它的恋人，尚未开始尝试它，也无法相信放弃的治愈力量。

In consequence of the violence of my palpitations, my doses of caffeine were reduced; the palpitations ceased. Whereupon I asked myself whether it was not to some extent the drug that had been responsible for the anguish that I had felt when I came near to quarrelling with Gilberte, an anguish which I had attributed, on every recurrence of it, to the distressing prospect of never seeing my friend again or of running the risk of seeing her only when she was a prey to the same ill-humour. But if this medicine had been at the root of the sufferings which my imagination must in that case have interpreted wrongly (not that there would be anything extraordinary in that, seeing that, among lovers, the most acute mental suffering assumes often the physical identity of the woman with whom they are living), it had been, in that sense, like the philtre which, long after they have drunk of it, continues to bind Tristan to Isolde. For the physical improvement which the reduction of my caffeine effected almost at once did not arrest the evolution of that grief which my absorption of the toxin had perhaps—if it had not created it—at any rate contrived to render more acute.
由于心悸剧烈，我减少了咖啡因的摄入量。心悸停止了。于是我问自己，当我差点与希尔贝特争吵时，我所感受到的痛苦是否在某种程度上是由药物造成的，每次这种痛苦再次发生时，我都将这种痛苦归咎于令人痛苦的前景我再也见不到我的朋友了，或者只有当她陷入同样的​​坏脾气时才冒着见到她的风险。但是，如果这种药物是痛苦的根源，那么我的想象力在这种情况下一定会错误地解释（这并不是什么不寻常的事情，因为在恋人之间，最严重的精神痛苦往往表现为身体上的同一性）与他们同居的女人），从这个意义上说，它就像春药一样，在他们喝了很久之后，仍然将特里斯坦与伊索尔德联系在一起。因为减少咖啡因几乎立即带来的身体改善并没有阻止我吸收毒素所带来的悲伤的演变——如果它没有造成悲伤的话——无论如何，它会加剧悲伤。

Only, as the middle of the month of January approached, once my hopes of a letter on New Year’s Day had been disappointed, once the additional disturbance that had come with their disappointment had grown calm, it was my old sorrow, that of ‘before the holidays,’ which began again. What was perhaps the most cruel thing about it was that I myself was its architect, unconscious, wilful, merciless and patient. The one thing that mattered, my relations with Gilberte, it was I who was labouring to make them impossible by gradually creating out of this prolonged separation from my friend, not indeed her indifference, but what would come to the same thing in the end, my own. It was to a slow and painful suicide of that part of me which was Gilberte’s lover that I was goading myself with untiring energy, with a clear sense not only of what I was presently doing but of what must result from it in the future; I knew not only that after a certain time I should cease to love Gilberte, but also that she herself would regret it and that the attempts which she would then make to see me would be as vain as those that she was making now, no longer because I loved her too well but because I should certainly be in love with some other woman whom I should continue to desire, to wait for, through hours of which I should not dare to divert any particle of a second to Gilberte who would be nothing to me then. And no doubt at that very moment in which (since I was determined not to see her again, unless after a formal request for an explanation or a full confession of love on her part, neither of which was in the least degree likely to come to me now) I had already lost Gilberte, and loved her more than ever, and could feel all that she was to me better than in the previous year when, spending all my afternoons in her company, or as many as I chose, I believed that no peril threatened our friendship,—no doubt at that moment the idea that I should one day entertain identical feelings for another was odious to me, for that idea carried me away beyond the range of Gilberte, my love and my sufferings. My love, my sufferings in which through my tears I attempted to discern precisely what Gilberte was, and was obliged to recognise that they did not pertain exclusively to her but would, sooner or later, be some other woman’s portion. So that—or such, at least, was my way of thinking then—we are always detached from our fellow-creatures; when a man loves one of them he feels that his love is not labelled with their two names, but may be born again in the future, may have been born already in the past for another and not for her. And in the time when he is not in love, if he makes up his mind philosophically as to what it is that is inconsistent in love, he will find that the love of which he can speak unmoved he did not, at the moment of speaking, feel, and therefore did not know, knowledge in these matters being intermittent and not outlasting the actual presence of the sentiment. That future in which I should not love Gilberte, which my sufferings helped me to divine although my imagination was not yet able to form a clear picture of it, certainly there would still have been time to warn Gilberte that it was gradually taking shape, that its coming was, if not imminent, at least inevitable, if she herself, Gilberte, did not come to my rescue and destroy in the germ my nascent indifference. How often was I not on the point of writing, or of going to Gilberte to tell her: ‘Take care. My mind is made up. What I am doing now is my supreme effort. I am seeing you now for the last time. Very soon I shall have ceased to love you.’ But to what end? By what authority should I have reproached Gilberte for an indifference which, not that I considered myself guilty on that count, I too manifested towards everything that was not herself? The last time! To me, that appeared as something of immense significance, because I was in love with Gilberte. On her it would doubtless have made just as much impression as those letters in which our friends ask whether they may pay us a visit before they finally leave the country, an offer which, like those made by tiresome women who are in love with us, we decline because we have pleasures of our own in prospect. The time which we have at our disposal every day is elastic; the passions that we feel expand it, those that we inspire contract it; and habit fills up what remains.
只是，随着一月中旬的临近，当我在元旦写信的希望落空，当因失望而带来的额外骚动平静下来时，那又是我旧时的悲伤了。假期又开始了。也许最残酷的是，我自己就是它的建筑师，无意识、任性、无情、耐心。重要的一件事是，我和希尔贝特的关系，是我在与我朋友的长期分离中逐渐创造出这种关系，从而使它们变得不可能，实际上不是她的冷漠，而是最终会导致同样的事情，我自己的。我以不知疲倦的精力激励着自己，不仅清楚地意识到我现在正在做什么，而且清楚地意识到我将来会因此而产生什么结果，这是为了让我的一部分——吉尔贝特的情人——缓慢而痛苦地自杀。我不仅知道，过了一段时间，我就会不再爱希尔贝特，而且她自己也会后悔，她以后想见我的尝试也将像现在一样徒劳无功，不再有效。因为我太爱她了，但因为我肯定会爱上另一个女人，我应该继续渴望她，等待她，在这几个小时里，我不敢把任何一秒钟的时间转移到希尔贝特身上，她什么也不是。那么对我来说。 毫无疑问，就在那一刻（因为我决定不再见到她，除非在她正式要求解释或完全承认爱之后，这两种情况都不太可能发生）我已经失去了希尔贝特，比以往任何时候都更爱她，并且能感觉到她对我的一切比前一年更好，当时，我相信我所有的下午都在她的陪伴下，或者我选择的尽可能多的陪伴我们的友谊没有任何危险受到威胁——毫无疑问，在那一刻，我对有一天会对另一个人怀有同样的感情的想法感到厌恶，因为这种想法使我超出了希尔贝特、我的爱和我的痛苦的范围。我的爱人，我的痛苦，通过我的泪水，我试图准确地辨别希尔贝特是什么，并且不得不承认它们并不完全属于她，而是迟早会成为其他女人的一部分。所以——或者至少是我当时的想法——我们总是与我们的同胞保持距离；我们总是与我们的同胞保持距离。当一个男人爱他们中的一个时，他会觉得他的爱并没有贴上他们两个名字的标签，而是可能在未来重生，可能已经在过去为另一个人而不是为她而出生。而当他不恋爱的时候，如果他用哲学的方式来思考爱情中什么是不一致的，他会发现，他可以无动于衷地谈论的爱情，在说话的那一刻，他并没有动摇。 ，感觉，因此不知道，这些问题的知识是断断续续的，并且不会比情感的实际存在更持久。 那个我不应该爱希尔贝特的未来，虽然我的想象力还无法清晰地描绘出它，但我的痛苦帮助我预见了它，当然仍然有时间警告希尔贝特，它正在逐渐形成，那个未来如果她，吉尔贝特，没有来拯救我，并摧毁我新生的冷漠的萌芽，它的到来即使不是迫在眉睫，至少也是不可避免的。有多少次我没打算写信，也没打算去吉尔贝特告诉她：“保重。”我的心意已决。我现在所做的就是我最大的努力。我现在是最后一次见到你了。很快我就会不再爱你了。’但目的是什么呢？我该以什么权力来指责希尔贝特的冷漠呢？我并不是认为自己有罪，而是对除她之外的一切事物都表现出了冷漠？最后一次！对我来说，这似乎具有重大意义，因为我爱上了吉尔贝特。对她来说，这无疑会给她留下同样深刻的印象，就像我们的朋友在信中询问他们是否可以在最终离开这个国家之前拜访我们一样，这一提议就像那些爱着我们的令人厌烦的女人所提出的那样，我们拒绝是因为我们有自己的快乐前景。我们每天可以支配的时间是有弹性的；我们感受到的激情会扩大它，我们激发的激情会缩小它；习惯会填满剩下的东西。

Besides, what good would it have done if I had spoken to Gilberte; she would not have understood me. We imagine always when we speak that it is our own ears, our own mind that are listening. My words would have come to her only in a distorted form, as though they had had to pass through the moving curtain of a waterfall before they reached my friend, unrecognisable, giving a foolish sound, having no longer any kind of meaning. The truth which one puts into one’s words does not make a direct path for itself, is not supported by irresistible evidence. A considerable time must elapse before a truth of the same order can take shape in the words themselves. Then the political opponent who, despite all argument, every proof that he has advanced to damn the votary of the rival doctrine as a traitor, will himself have come to share the hated conviction by which he who once sought in vain to disseminate it is no longer bound. Then the masterpiece of literature whidi for the admirers who read it aloud seemed to make self-evident the proofs of its excellence, while to those who listened it presented only a senseless or commonplace image, will by these too be proclaimed a masterpiece, but too late for the author to learn of their discovery. Similarly in love the barriers, do what one may, cannot be broken down from without by him whom they maddeningly exclude; it is when he is no longer concerned with them that suddenly, as the result of aft effort directed from elsewhere, accomplished within the heart of her who did not love him, those barriers which he has charged without success will fall to no advantage. If I had come to Gilberte to tell her of my future indifference and the means of preventing it, she would have assumed from my action that my love for her, the need that I had of her, were even greater than I had supposed, and her distaste for the sight of me would thereby have been increased. And incidentally it is quite true that it was that love for her which helped me, by means of the incongruous states of mind which it successively produced in me, to foresee, more clearly than she herself could, the end of that love. And yet some such warning I might perhaps have addressed, by letter or with my own lips, to Gilberte, after a long enough interval, which would render her, it is true, less indispensable to me, but would also have proved to her that she was not so indispensable. Unfortunately certain persons—of good or evil intent—spoke of me to her in a fashion which must have led her to think that they were doing so at my request. Whenever I thus learned that Cottard, my own mother, even M. de Norpois had by a few ill-chosen words rendered useless all the sacrifice that I had just been making, wasted all the advantage of my reserve by giving me, wrongly, the appearance of having emerged from it, I was doubly angry. In the first place I could no longer reckon from any date but the present my laborious and fruitful abstention which these tiresome people had, unknown to me, interrupted and so brought to nothing. And not only that; I should have less pleasure in seeing Gilberte, who would think of me now no longer as containing myself in dignified resignation, but as plotting in the dark for an interview which she had scorned to grant me. I cursed all the idle chatter of people who so often, without any intention of hurting us or of doing us a service, for no reason, for talking’s sake, often because we ourselves have not been able to refrain from talking in their presence, and because they are indiscreet (as we ourselves are), do us, at a crucial moment, so much harm. It is true that in the grim operation performed for the eradication of our love they are far from playing a part equal to that played by two persons who are in the habit, from excess of good nature in one and of malice in the Other, of undoing everything at the moment when everything is on the point of being settled. But against these two persons we bear no such grudge as against the inopportune Cottards of this world, for the latter of them is the person whom we love and the former is ourself.
再说了，如果我和希尔贝特说话又有什么用呢？她不会理解我的。当我们说话时，我们总是想象是我们自己的耳朵、我们自己的头脑在听。我的话语只能以一种扭曲的形式传达给她，就好像它们必须穿过瀑布的移动帘子才能到达我的朋友那里，无法辨认，发出愚蠢的声音，不再有任何意义。一个人所说的真理并没有为自己开辟一条直接的道路，也没有不可抗拒的证据支持。必须经过相当长的时间才能在文字本身中形成同样的真理。那么，政治对手，尽管有各种争论，有各种证据表明他已经提出将敌对学说的拥护者谴责为叛徒，他自己也会开始分享令人憎恶的信念，而他曾经徒劳地试图传播这种学说，他是不存在的。更长的束缚。那么，文学杰作对于那些大声朗读它的崇拜者来说，似乎不言而喻地证明了它的卓越性，而对于那些聆听它的人来说，它只呈现出一种毫无意义或平凡的形象，这些人也将被宣布为一部杰作，但也作者得知他们的发现已经太晚了。同样，在爱情中，无论人们如何努力，障碍都无法被他们令人疯狂地排斥的人从外部打破。当他不再关心他们的时候，突然间，由于从别处引导而来的、在不爱他的她心里完成的努力，他所设置的那些障碍，但没有成功，就会变得毫无优势。 如果我来吉尔贝特告诉她我未来的冷漠以及防止这种情况的方法，她就会从我的行为中看出我对她的爱，我对她的需要，甚至比我想象的还要强烈，并且她对看到我的厌恶感会因此而增加。顺便说一句，确实是对她的爱帮助我，通过它在我身上不断产生的不协调的心理状态，比她自己更清楚地预见到了那种爱的结局。然而，在足够长的间隔之后，我也许可以通过信件或亲口向希尔贝特提出这样的警告，这将使她，确实，对我来说不那么不可或缺，但也会向她证明：她并不是那么不可或缺。不幸的是，某些人——无论是善意的还是恶意的——以某种方式向她谈论我，这一定会让她认为他们是应我的要求这样做的。每当我得知我的母亲科塔尔，甚至德·诺普瓦先生，都用几句不当的话，使我刚刚做出的所有牺牲变得毫无用处，浪费了我所有的保留优势，错误地给予了我看到从里面出来的样子，我更加生气了。首先，我无法从任何日期开始，除了现在，我费力而富有成效的放弃，被这些令人厌烦的人，在我不知情的情况下，打断了，因此毫无结果。不仅如此；见到希尔贝特我就不那么高兴了，她会认为我现在不再是堂堂正正地听天由命，而是在暗中密谋接受她本来不屑于接受的采访。 我咒骂那些经常闲聊的人，他们没有任何意图伤害我们或为我们服务，没有任何理由，只是为了说话，往往是因为我们自己无法克制自己在他们面前说话，并且因为他们轻率（就像我们自己一样），所以在关键时刻给我们造成了很大的伤害。确实，在根除我们的爱情的残酷行动中，他们所扮演的角色远不能与两个人所扮演的角色相提并论，因为两个人都习惯于一个人过分善良，另一个人过分恶意，在一切即将尘埃落定的时刻，一切都被推翻。但是，我们对这两个人的怨恨并不像对这个世界上不合时宜的科塔尔那样，因为后者是我们所爱的人，而前者是我们自己。

Meanwhile, since on almost every occasion of my going to see her Mme. Swann would invite me to come to tea another day, with her daughter, and tell me to reply directly to her, I was constantly writing to Gilberte, and in this correspondence I did not choose the expressions which might, I felt, have won her over, sought only to carve out the easiest channel for the torrent of my tears. For, like desire, regret seeks not to be analysed but to be satisfied. When one begins to love, one spends one’s time, not in getting to know what one’s love really is, but in making it possible to meet next day. When one abandons love one seeks not to know one’s grief but to offer to her who is causing it that expression of it which seems to one the most moving. One says the things which one feels the need of saying, and which the other will not understand, one speaks for oneself alone. I wrote: ‘I had thought that it would not be possible. Alas, I see now that it is not so difficult.’ I said also: ‘I shall probably not see you again;’ I said it while I continued to avoid shewing a coldness which she might think affected, and the words, as I wrote them, made me weep because I felt that they expressed not what I should have liked to believe but what was probably going to happen. For at the next request for a meeting which she would convey to me I should have again, as I had now, the courage not to yield, and, what with one refusal and another, I should gradually come to the moment when, by virtue of not having seen her again, I should not wish to see her. I wept, but I found courage enough to sacrifice, I tasted the sweets of sacrificing the happiness of being with her to the probability of seeming attractive to her one day, a day when, alas, my seeming attractive to her would be immaterial to me. Even the supposition, albeit so far from likely, that at this moment, as she had pretended during the last visit that I had paid her, she loved me, that what I took for the boredom which one feels in the company of a person of whom one has grown tired had been due only to a jealous susceptibility, to a feint of indifference analogous to my own, only rendered my decision less painful. It seemed to me that in years to come, when we had forgotten one another, when I should be able to look back and tell her that this letter which I was now in course of writing had not been for one moment sincere, she would answer, ‘What, you really did love me, did you? If you had only known how I waited for that letter, how I hoped that you were coming to see me, how I cried when I read it.’ The thought, while I was writing it, immediately on my return from her mother’s house, that I was perhaps helping to bring about that very misunderstanding, that thought, by the sadness in which it plunged me, by the pleasure of imagining that I was loved by Gilberte, gave me the impulse to continue my letter.
与此同时，因为几乎每次我都会去见她女士。斯万会邀请我改天和她的女儿一起去喝茶，并告诉我直接给她回复，我一直在给希尔贝特写信，在这封信中，我没有选择我认为可能赢得她的表达方式结束了，只是想为我的泪水开辟一条最容易的通道。因为，就像欲望一样，遗憾不寻求分析，而是寻求满足。当一个人开始爱的时候，一个人花费的时间，不是为了知道自己的爱到底是什么，而是为了让第二天能够见面。当一个人放弃爱情时，他不会寻求了解自己的悲伤，而是向造成悲伤的她提供一种对人来说似乎是最感人的表达方式。一个人说自己觉得有必要说的话，而另一个人无法理解的话，一个人只为自己说话。我写道：‘我原以为这是不可能的。唉，我现在发现事情没那么困难了。”我还说道：“我可能再也见不到你了。”我一边说，一边继续避免流露出她可能认为是做作的冷漠，而这些话，正如我所说的那样。写下它们，让我哭泣，因为我觉得它们表达的不是我应该相信的事情，而是可能会发生的事情。因为当她向我转达下一次会面的请求时，我应该再次有不屈服的勇气，就像我现在一样，并且，经过一次又一次的拒绝，我应该逐渐到达这样的时刻：既然再也见不到她了，我就不想见到她了。 我哭了，但我找到了足够的勇气去牺牲，我尝到了牺牲与她在一起的幸福的甜蜜，以换取有一天对她有吸引力的可能性，唉，有一天，我对她的吸引力对我来说并不重要。甚至有一种假设，尽管可能性不大，此时此刻，就像我上次拜访她时假装的那样，她爱我，我认为与一个人在一起感到无聊。人们之所以感到厌倦，只是因为一种嫉妒的敏感性，一种类似于我自己的假装冷漠，这只会让我的决定不那么痛苦。在我看来，在未来的岁月里，当我们彼此忘记时，当我能够回头告诉她，我现在正在写的这封信一刻也没有真诚时，她会回答'什么，你真的爱我，是吗？如果你知道我是如何等待那封信，我是如何希望你能来看我，当我读到这封信时我是如何哭泣。”当我从她母亲家回来时，当我写这封信时，我立即想到我可能正在帮助造成这种误解，这种想法，通过它使我陷入悲伤，通过想象我被希尔贝特所爱的快乐，给了我继续写信的冲动。

If, at the moment of leaving Mme. Swann, when her tea-party ended, I was thinking of what I was going to write to her daughter, Mme. Cottard, as she departed, had been filled with thoughts of a wholly different order. On her little ‘tour of inspection’ she had not failed to congratulate Mme. Swann on the new ‘pieces,’ the recent ‘acquisitions’ which caught the eye in her drawing-room. She could see among them some, though only a very few, of the things that Odette had had in the old days in the Rue La Pérouse, for instance her animals carved in precious stones, her fetishes.
如果，在离开女士的那一刻。斯旺，当她的茶话会结束时，我正在考虑要写信给她的女儿，夫人。当她离开时，科塔尔心里充满了完全不同的想法。在她小小的“视察”中，她没有不向夫人表示祝贺。斯旺谈论新的“作品”，最近的“收购”在她的客厅里引起了人们的注意。她可以在其中看到一些，尽管只是极少数，奥黛特过去在拉佩鲁斯街拥有的东西，例如她用宝石雕刻的动物，她的迷恋物。

For since Mme. Swann had picked up from a friend whose opinion she valued the word ‘dowdy’—which had opened to her a new horizon because it denoted precisely those things which a few years earlier she had considered ‘smart’—all those things had, one after another, followed into retirement the gilded trellis that had served as background to her chrysanthemums, innumerable boxes of sweets from Giroux’s, and the coroneted note-paper (not to mention the coins of gilt pasteboard littered about on the mantelpieces, which, even before she had come to know Swann, a man of taste had advised her to sacrifice). Moreover in the artistic disorder, the studio-like confusion of the rooms, whose walls were still painted in sombre colours which made them as different as possible from the white-enamelled drawing-rooms in which, a little later, you were to find Mme. Swann installed, the Far East recoiled more and more before the invading forces of the eighteenth century; and the cushions which, to make me ‘comfortable,’ Mme. Swann heaped up and buffeted into position behind my back were sprinkled with Louis XV garlands and not, as of old, with Chinese dragons. In the room in which she was usually to be found, and of which she would say, ‘Yes, I like this room; I use it a great deal. I couldn’t live with a lot of horrid vulgar things swearing at me all the time; this is where I do my work——‘ though she never stated precisely at what she was working. Was it a picture? A book, perhaps, for the hobby of writing was beginning to become common among women who liked to ‘do something,’ not to be quite useless. She was surrounded by Dresden pieces (having a fancy for that sort of porcelain, which she would name with an English accent, saying in any connexion: ‘How pretty that is; it reminds me of Dresden flowers,’), and dreaded for them even more than in the old days for her grotesque figures and her flower-pots the ignorant handling of her servants who must expiate, every now and then, the anxiety that they had caused her by submitting to outbursts of rage at which Swann, the most courteous and considerate of masters, looked on without being shocked. Not that the clear perception of certain weaknesses in those whom we love in any way diminishes our affection for them; rather that affection makes us find those weaknesses charming. Rarely nowadays was it in one of those Japanese wrappers that Odette received her familiars, but rather in the bright and billowing silk of a Watteau gown whose flowering foam she made as though to caress where it covered her bosom, and in which she immersed herself, looked solemn, splashed and sported, with such an air of comfort, of a cool skin and long-drawn breath, that she seemed to look on these garments not as something decorative, a mere setting for herself, but as necessary, in the same way as her ‘tub’ or her daily ‘outing,’ to satisfy the requirements of her style of beauty and the niceties of hygiene. She used often to say that she would go without bread rather than give up ‘art’ and ‘having nice things about her,’ and that the burning of the ‘Gioconda’ would distress her infinitely more than the destruction, by the same element, of ‘millions’ of the people she knew. Theories which seemed paradoxical to her friends, but made her pass among them as a superior woman, and qualified her to receive a visit once a week from the Belgian Minister, so that in the little world whose sun she was everyone would have been greatly astonished to learn that elsewhere—at the Verdurins’, for instance—she was reckoned a fool. It was this vivacity of expression that made Mme. Swann prefer men’s society to women’s. But when she criticised the latter it was always from the courtesan’s standpoint, singling out the blemishes that might lower them in the esteem of men, a lumpy figure, a bad complexion, inability to spell, hairy legs, foul breath, pencilled eyebrows. But towards a woman who had shewn her kindness or indulgence in the past she was more lenient, especially if this woman were now in trouble. She would defend her warmly, saying: ‘People are not fair to her. I assure you, she’s quite a nice woman really.’
因为自从女士。斯旺从一位朋友那里学到了她很看重“邋遢”这个词的观点——这为她打开了一个新的视野，因为它准确地指代了几年前她认为“聪明”的那些东西——所有这些东西，一个接一个地出现了。另一个，随之退休的是曾经作为菊花背景的镀金格子，无数吉鲁糖果盒，以及加冕的便条纸（更不用说散落在壁炉架上的镀金纸板硬币了，甚至在她之前）认识斯旺时，一位有品位的人建议她牺牲）。此外，在艺术上的混乱中，房间里像工作室一样混乱，墙壁仍然漆着暗淡的颜色，这使得它们与白色珐琅的客厅尽可能不同，稍后你会在客厅里找到夫人。 。斯万就任后，远东在十八世纪的入侵势力面前越来越退缩。还有让我“舒服”的垫子，女士。斯旺在我背后堆起并摆好位置，上面洒满了路易十五的花环，而不是像以前那样洒满了中国龙。在她经常出现的房间里，她会说：“是的，我喜欢这个房间；”我经常使用它。我无法忍受许多可怕的粗俗事物一直对我咒骂；这就是我工作的地方——”尽管她从未明确说明她在做什么。这是一张照片吗？也许，一本针对写作爱好的书开始在那些喜欢“做点什么”而不是毫无用处的女性中变得普遍。 她周围都是德累斯顿的瓷器（她很喜欢那种瓷器，她会用英国口音来命名这种瓷器，在任何场合都会说：“那多漂亮；它让我想起德累斯顿的花，”），并为它们感到害怕甚至比过去更严重的是，她怪诞的人物和花盆，她的仆人们的无知处理，他们必须时不时地补偿他们因屈服于斯旺的愤怒爆发而引起的焦虑。师尊殷勤体贴，旁观不惊。这并不是说，清楚地认识到我们所爱的人的某些弱点会削弱我们对他们的感情；相反，我们对他们的感情却是这样的。相反，这种感情让我们发现这些弱点很迷人。如今，奥黛特很少在日本包装中收到她的宠儿，而是穿着华托礼服的明亮而飘逸的丝绸，她制作出花朵般的泡沫，仿佛在抚摸它覆盖她胸部的地方，她沉浸在其中，看起来庄严、泼水、运动，带着一种舒适的气息，皮肤凉爽，呼吸悠长，她似乎认为这些衣服不是装饰性的东西，仅仅是她自己的背景，而是必要的，在同样的环境中。作为她的“浴缸”或日常“郊游”，以满足她的美容风格和卫生要求。她常常说，她宁愿不吃面包，也不愿放弃“艺术”和“拥有美好的事物”，而“乔康达”的燃烧比同样的破坏造成的破坏更让她痛苦，她认识的“数百万”人。 这些理论对她的朋友们来说似乎是自相矛盾的，但却让她在他们中间成为了一位上等的女性，并让她有资格接受比利时部长每周一次的拜访，这样，在她这个以她为太阳的小世界里，每个人都会大吃一惊。得知在其他地方——例如在维尔迪兰家——她被认为是个傻瓜。正是这种活泼的表达方式使Mme.斯旺更喜欢男性社会而不是女性社会。但当她批评后者时，总是站在妓女的立场上，挑出那些可能降低她们在男人心目中的缺点：身材魁梧、脸色不好、不会拼写、腿上毛茸茸的、口臭、眉毛浓密。但对于一个曾经表现出善意或宽容的女人，她却更加宽容，尤其是这个女人现在遇到了麻烦。她会热情地为她辩护，说：“人们对她不公平。”我向你保证，她真的是一个很好的女人。’

It was not only the furniture of Odette’s drawing-room, it was Odette herself that Mme. Cottard and all those who had frequented the society of Mme. de Crécy would have found it difficult, if they had not seen her for some little time, to recognise. She seemed to be so much younger. No doubt this was partly because she had grown stouter, was in better condition, seemed at once calmer, more cool, more restful, and also because the new way in which she braided her hair gave more breadth to a face which was animated by an application of pink powder, and into which her eyes and profile, formerly too prominent, seemed now to have been reabsorbed. But another reason for this change lay in the fact that, having reached the turning-point of life, Odette had at length discovered, or invented, a physiognomy of her own, an unalterable ‘character,’ a ‘style of beauty’ and on her incoherent features—which for so long, exposed to every hazard, every weakness of the flesh, borrowing for a moment, at the slightest fatigue, from the years to come, a sort of flickering shadow of anility, had furnished her, well or ill, according to how she was feeling, how she was looking, with a countenance dishevelled, inconstant, formless and attractive—had now set this fixed type, as it were an immortal youthfulness.
这不仅是奥黛特客厅里的家具，也是奥黛特夫人本人。科塔尔和所有经常光顾夫人社交活动的人。如果他们有一段时间没有见到她，德克雷西会发现很难认出她。她看起来年轻了许多。毫无疑问，这部分是因为她变得更胖了，身体状况更好了，看起来更平静、更冷静、更安宁，而且还因为她编辫子的新方式让她的脸更加宽广，这张脸充满活力。她涂了粉红色的粉末，以前过于突出的眼睛和轮廓现在似乎被重新吸收了。但造成这种变化的另一个原因在于，在到达人生的转折点后，奥黛特终于发现了，或者说发明了一种属于自己的相貌，一种不可改变的“性格”，一种“美的风格”，并且她语无伦次的面容——长期以来，暴露在每一个危险、每一个肉体的弱点之下，在未来的岁月里，只要有一点点疲劳，就会借用片刻，一种闪烁的无性的阴影，使她无论好坏生病了，根据她的感觉，她的样子，面容凌乱，反复无常，无形而迷人——现在已经设定了这种固定的类型，因为它是一种不朽的青春。

Swann had in his room, instead of the handsome photographs that were now taken of his wife, in all of which the same cryptic, victorious expression enabled one to recognise, in whatever dress and hat, her triumphant face and figure, a little old daguerreotype of her, quite plain, taken long before the appearance of this new type, so that the youth and beauty of Odette, which she had not yet discovered when it was taken, appeared to be missing from it. But it is probable that Swann, having remained constant, or having reverted to a different conception of her, enjoyed in the slender young woman with pensive eyes and tired features, caught in a pose between rest and motion, a more Botticellian charm. For he still liked to recognise in his wife one of Botticelli’s figures. Odette, who on the other hand sought not to bring out but to make up for, to cover and conceal the points in herself that did not please her, what might perhaps to an artist express her ‘character’ but in her woman’s eyes were merely blemishes, would not have that painter mentioned in her presence. Swann had a wonderful scarf of oriental silk, blue and pink, which he had bought because it was exactly that worn by Our Lady in the Magnificat. But Mme. Swann refused to wear it. Once only she allowed her husband to order her a dress covered all over with daisies, cornflowers, forget-me-nots and campanulas, like that of the Primavera. And sometimes in the evening, when she was tired, he would quietly draw my attention to the way in which she was giving, quite unconsciously, to her pensive hands the uncontrolled, almost distraught movement of the Virgin who dips her pen into the inkpot that the angel holds out to her, before writing upon the sacred page on which is already traced the word ‘Magnificat.’ But he added, ‘Whatever you do, don’t say anything about it to her; if she knew she was doing it, she would change her pose at once.’
斯万在他的房间里放着一张有点旧的银版相片，而不是现在为他妻子拍摄的漂亮照片，在所有这些照片中，同样神秘、胜利的表情使人们能够认出，无论穿着什么衣服和帽子，她胜利的脸和身材。她的照片非常朴素，是在这种新类型出现之前很久就拍摄的，因此，奥黛特的青春和美丽，在拍摄时她还没有发现，似乎从其中消失了。但斯万很可能保持不变，或者恢复了对她的不同看法，欣赏了这个苗条的年轻女子，她眼神沉思，面容疲惫，摆出一种介于休息和运动之间的姿势，更具波提切利式的魅力。因为他仍然喜欢在他的妻子身上认出波提切利的人物之一。另一方面，奥黛特并不寻求表现出来，而是试图弥补、掩盖和隐藏自己身上那些令她不高兴的地方，也许对于一个艺术家来说，她可以表达她的“性格”，但在她女人的眼里，这只是瑕疵，不会在她面前提及那个画家。斯旺有一条精美的东方丝绸围巾，有蓝色和粉色，他买这条围巾是因为它正是圣母玛利亚在圣母颂中所佩戴的。但是女士。斯旺拒绝佩戴它。只有一次，她允许丈夫为她订购一件布满雏菊、矢车菊、勿忘我和风铃草的裙子，就像《春》里的那样。有时在晚上，当她累了的时候，他会悄悄地让我注意她的样子，她完全无意识地将她沉思的双手放在她沉思的双手上，她不受控制地、近乎心烦意乱的动作，就像圣母将笔浸入墨水瓶中一样。天使向她伸出手，然后在神圣的页面上写下“圣母玛利亚”这个词。” 但他补充道，“无论你做什么，都不要对她说任何事；如果她知道自己在这么做，她会立即改变姿势。’

Save at these moments of involuntary relaxation, in which Swann essayed to recapture the melancholy cadence of Botticelli, Odette seemed now to be cut out in a single figure, wholly confined within a line which, following the contours of the woman, had abandoned the winding paths, the capricious re-entrants and salients, the radial points, the elaborate dispersions of the fashions of former days, but also, where it was her anatomy that went wrong by making unnecessary digressions within or without the ideal circumference traced for it, was able to rectify, by a bold stroke, the errors of nature, to make up, along a whole section of its course, for the failure as well of the human as of the textile element. The pads, the preposterous ‘bustle’ had disappeared, as well as those tailed corsets which, projecting under the skirt and stiffened by rods of whalebone, had so long amplified Odette with an artificial stomach and had given her the appearance of being composed of several incongruous pieces which there was no individuality to bind together. The vertical fall of fringes, the curve of trimmings had made way for the inflexion of a body which made silk palpitate as a siren stirs the waves, gave to cambric a human expression now that it had been liberated, like a creature that had taken shape and drawn breath, from the long chaos and nebulous envelopment of fashions at length dethroned. But Mme. Swann had chosen, had contrived to preserve some vestiges of certain of these, in the very thick of the more recent fashions that had supplanted them. When in the evening, finding myself unable to work and feeling certain that Gilberte had gone to the theatre with friends, I paid a surprise visit to her parents, I used often to find Mme. Swann in an elegant dishabille the skirt of which, of one of those rich dark colours, blood-red or orange, which seemed always as though they meant something very special, because they were no longer the fashion, was crossed diagonally, though not concealed, by a broad band of black lace which recalled the flounces of an earlier day. When on a still chilly afternoon in Spring she had taken me (before my rupture with her daughter) to the Jardin d’Acclimatation, under her coat, which she opened or buttoned up according as the exercise made her feel warm, the dog-toothed border of her blouse suggested a glimpse of the lapel of some non-existent waistcoat such as she had been accustomed to wear, some years earlier, when she had liked their edges to have the same slight indentations; and her scarf—of that same ‘Scotch tartan’ to which she had remained faithful, but whose tones she had so far softened, red becoming pink and blue lilac, that one might almost have taken it for one of those pigeon’s-breast taffetas which were the latest novelty—was knotted in such a way under her chin, without one’s being able to make out where it was fastened, that one could not help being reminded of those bonnet-strings which were—now no longer worn. She need only ‘hold out’ like this for a little longer and young men attempting to understand her theory of dress would say: ‘Mme. Swann is quite a period in herself, isn’t she?’ As in a fine literary style which overlays with its different forms and so strengthens a tradition which lies concealed among them, so in Mme. Swann’s attire those half-hinted memories of waistcoats or of ringlets, sometimes a tendency, at once repressed, towards the ‘all aboard,’ or even a distant and vague allusion to the ‘chase me’ kept alive beneath the concrete form the unfinished likeness of other, older forms which you would not have succeeded, now, in making a tailor or a dressmaker reproduce, but about which your thoughts incessantly hovered, and enwrapped Mme. Swann in a cloak of nobility—perhaps because the sheer uselessness of these fripperies made them seem meant to serve some more than utilitarian purpose, perhaps because of the traces they preserved of vanished years, or else because there was a sort of personality permeating this lady’s wardrobe, which gave to the most dissimilar of her costumes a distinct family likeness. One felt that she did not dress simply for the comfort or the adornment of her body; she was surrounded by her garments as by the delicate and spiritualised machinery of a whole form of civilisation.
除了斯旺试图重新捕捉波提切利忧郁节奏的那些不由自主的放松时刻之外，奥黛特现在似乎被剪成一个单一的人物，完全被限制在一条沿着女人轮廓的线条内，放弃了蜿蜒的线条。路径、反复无常的凹角和突出物、径向点、昔日时尚的精心分散，而且，她的解剖结构因在为其描绘的理想周长内或没有进行不必要的离题而出错，是能够大胆地纠正自然的错误，在整个过程中弥补人类和纺织元素的失败。护垫、荒谬的“衬托”都消失了，还有那些在裙子下突出并用鲸骨棒加固的有尾的紧身胸衣，它们长期以来一直用人造胃放大了奥黛特，使她看起来像是由几部分组成的。不协调的碎片，没有个性可以结合在一起。垂直落下的流苏、曲线的饰边已经让位给了身体的弯曲，这使得丝绸在海妖搅动波浪时颤动，赋予了麻布一种人类的表情，因为它已经被解放了，就像一个已经成形的生物从时尚的长期混乱和模糊包围中终于被废黜，我屏住了呼吸。但是女士。斯旺选择并设法在取代它们的最新时尚中保留其中某些元素的一些痕迹。晚上，我发现自己无法工作，并且确信吉尔贝特和朋友一起去了剧院，我突然拜访了她的父母，我过去经常找到希尔贝特女士。 斯旺穿着优雅的短裙，裙子是一种浓郁的深色，血红色或橙色，似乎总是意味着一些非常特别的东西，因为它们不再流行，虽然没有隐藏，但它们是对角交叉的宽阔的黑色蕾丝带让人想起早些时候的荷叶边。春天一个仍然寒冷的下午，她带我（在我和她女儿分手之前）去驯化花园，穿着她的外套，根据锻炼让她感到温暖的方式打开或扣上扣子，狗牙她衬衫的边缘让人瞥见一些不存在的背心的翻领，几年前她习惯穿这种背心，当时她喜欢它们的边缘有同样的轻微凹痕；还有她的围巾——那条她一直忠实的“苏格兰格子呢”，但迄今为止她的色调已经软化了，红色变成了粉色和蓝色丁香，人们几乎会把它当作一种鸽胸塔夫绸，这是最新的新奇事物——以这样一种方式在她的下巴下面打结，让人看不出它是固定在哪里的，这不禁让人想起那些——现在不再戴的帽子带子。她只需要像这样“坚持”一段时间，试图理解她的着装理论的年轻人就会说：“女士。”斯旺本身就是一个相当时期，不是吗？”就像一种精美的文学风格，它与不同的形式重叠，从而加强了隐藏在其中的传统，在夫人中也是如此。 斯旺的着装隐含着对背心或卷发的记忆，有时是一种立即被压抑的倾向，指向“全体上车”，甚至是对“追我”的遥远而模糊的暗示，在未完成的肖像的具体形式下仍然存在现在，你不可能成功地让裁缝或裁缝复制出其他更古老的形式，但你的思绪不断地盘旋在这些形式上，并包裹着夫人。斯旺穿着贵族斗篷——也许是因为这些华而不实的东西毫无用处，让它们看起来不仅仅有功利的目的，也许是因为它们保留了逝去岁月的痕迹，或者因为有一种个性渗透在这位女士的身上。衣柜，这让她最不同的服装具有独特的家族相似性。人们觉得她穿衣打扮不仅仅是为了舒适或装饰自己的身体；她被她的衣服包围着，就像被整个文明形式的精致而灵性的机器包围着一样。

When Gilberte, who, as a rule, gave her tea-parties on the days when her mother was ‘at home,’ had for some reason to go out, and I was therefore free to attend Mme. Swann’s ‘kettledrum,’ I would find her dressed in one of her lovely gowns, some of which were of taffeta, others of gros-grain, or of velvet, or of crêpe-de-Chine, or satin or silk, gowns which, not being loose like those that she generally wore in the house but buttoned up tight as though she were just going out in them, gave to her stay-at-home laziness on those afternoons something alert and energetic. And no doubt the daring simplicity of their cut was singularly appropriate to her figure and to her movements, which her sleeves appeared to be symbolising in colours that varied from day to day: one would have said that there was a sudden determination in the blue velvet, an easy-going good humour in the white taffeta, and that a sort of supreme discretion full of dignity in her way of holding out her arm had, in order to become visible, put on the appearance, dazzling with the smile of one who had made great sacrifices, of the black crêpe-de-Chine. But at the same time these animated gowns took from the complication of their trimmings, none of which had any practical value or served any conceivable purpose, something detached, pensive, secret, in harmony with the melancholy which Mme. Swann never failed to shew, at least in the shadows under her eyes and the drooping arches of her hands. Beneath the profusion of sapphire charms, enamelled four-leaf clovers, silver medals, gold medallions, turquoise amulets, ruby chains and topaz chestnuts there would be, on the dress itself, some design carried out in colour which pursued across the surface of an inserted panel a preconceived existence of its own, some row of little satin buttons, which buttoned nothing and could not be unbuttoned, a strip of braid that sought to please the eye with the minuteness, the discretion of a delicate reminder; and these, as well as the trinkets, had the effect—for otherwise there would have been no possible justification of their presence—of disclosing a secret intention, being a pledge of affection, keeping a secret, ministering to a superstition, commemorating a recovery from sickness, a granted wish, a love affair or a ‘philippine.’ And now and then in the blue velvet of the bodice a hint of ‘slashes,’ in the Henri II style, in the gown of black satin a slight swelling which, if it was in the sleeves, just below the shoulders, made one think of the ‘leg of mutton’ sleeves of 1830, or if, on the other hand, it was beneath the skirt, with its Louis XV paniers, gave the dress a just perceptible air of being ‘fancy dress’ and at all events, by insinuating beneath the life of the present day a vague reminiscence of the past, blended with the person of Mme. Swann the charm of certain heroines of history or romance. And if I were to draw her attention to this: ‘I don’t play golf,’ she would answer, ‘like so many of my friends. So I should have no excuse for going about, as they do, in sweaters.’
希尔贝特通常在她母亲“在家”的日子里为她举办茶会，但由于某种原因不得不外出，因此我有空去参加夫人。斯旺的“水壶”，我会发现她穿着一件可爱的礼服，其中一些是塔夫绸，另一些是罗缎，或天鹅绒，或双绉，或缎子或丝绸，这些礼服，不像她在家里穿的那种宽松的衣服，而是把扣子扣得紧紧的，就像她刚出去时那样，给她那些下午呆在家里的懒惰带来了一些警觉和活力。毫无疑问，大胆简洁的剪裁非常适合她的身材和动作，她的袖子似乎象征着每天不同的颜色：人们会说，蓝色天鹅绒里有一种突然的决心。身着白色塔夫绸的她，有着一种随和的幽默感，伸出手臂的方式中充满了一种至高无上的审慎，充满了尊严，为了引人注目，她的外表显得在微笑中令人眼花缭乱。为黑色双绉做出了巨大的牺牲。但与此同时，这些充满活力的礼服从其复杂的装饰中汲取了一些超然的、沉思的、秘密的东西，这些装饰没有任何实用价值或服务于任何可以想象的目的，与夫人的忧郁相协调。斯旺总是能表现出来，至少在她眼下的阴影和下垂的手弓上。 在大量的蓝宝石吊饰、珐琅四叶草、银质奖章、金质奖章、绿松石护身符、红宝石链和托帕石栗子下面，裙子本身会有一些色彩设计，这些设计贯穿了镶嵌物的表面。面板本身是一种先入为主的存在，有一排小缎子纽扣，它们什么也没扣，也无法解开，一条辫子试图以微小的方式取悦眼睛，谨慎地提醒人们；这些东西，以及小饰品，都具有泄露秘密意图、表达爱意、保守秘密、助长迷信、纪念康复的作用——否则它们的存在就不可能是正当的。疾病、愿望成真、爱情或“菲律宾人”。时不时地，在蓝色天鹅绒紧身胸衣上出现一丝亨利二世风格的“斜线”，在黑色缎子长袍上出现轻微的肿胀， ，如果它在袖子里，就在肩膀下方，就会让人想起 1830 年的“羊腿”袖子，或者，另一方面，如果它在裙子下面，带有路易十五的围裙，就会让人想起这件衣服一种恰到好处的“奇装异服”气息，无论如何，在当今的生活之下暗示着对过去的模糊回忆，与夫人本人融为一体。欣赏历史或浪漫中某些女主角的魅力。如果我让她注意这一点：“我不打高尔夫球，”她会回答，“就像我的许多朋友一样。”所以我没有理由像他们一样穿着毛衣到处走动。’

In the confusion of her drawing-room, on her way from shewing out one visitor, or with a plateful of cakes to ‘tempt’ another, Mme. Swann as she passed by me would take me aside for a moment: ‘I have special instructions from Gilberte that you are to come to luncheon the day after to-morrow. As I wasn’t sure of seeing you here, I was going to write to you if you hadn’t come.’ I continued to resist. And this resistance was costing me steadily less and less, because, however much one may love the poison that is destroying one, when one has compulsorily to do without it, and has had to do without it for some time past, one cannot help attaching a certain value to the peace of mind which one had ceased to know, to the absence of emotion and suffering. If one is not altogether sincere in assuring oneself that one does not wish ever to see again her whom one loves, one would not be a whit more sincere in saying that one would like to see her. For no doubt one can endure her absence only when one promises oneself that it shall not be for long, and thinks of the day on which one shall see her again, but at the same time one feels how much less painful are those daily recurring dreams of a meeting immediate and incessantly postponed than would be an interview which might be followed by a spasm of jealousy, with the result that the news that one is shortly to see her whom one loves would cause a disturbance which would be none too pleasant. What one procrastinates now from day to day is no longer the end of the intolerable anxiety caused by separation, it is the dreaded renewal of emotions which can lead to nothing. How infinitely one prefers to any such interview the docile memory which one can supplement at one’s pleasure with dreams, in which she who in reality does not love one seems, far from that, to be making protestations of her love for one, when one is by oneself; that memory which one can contrive, by blending gradually with it a portion of what one desires, to render as pleasing as one may choose, how infinitely one prefers it to the avoided interview in which one would have to deal with a creature to whom one could no longer dictate at one’s pleasure the words that one would like to hear on her lips, but from whom one would meet with fresh coldness, unlooked-for violence. We know, all of us, when we no longer love, that forgetfulness, that even a vague memory do not cause us so much suffering as an ill-starred love. It was of such forgetfulness that in anticipation I preferred, without acknowledging it to myself, the reposeful tranquillity.
在混乱的客厅里，在送走一位客人的路上，或者拿着一盘蛋糕去“诱惑”另一位客人时，夫人。斯万经过我身边时，会把我拉到一边一会儿：“我接到吉尔贝特的特别指示，要求你后天来参加午餐。”因为我不确定是否会在这里见到你，所以如果你没有来的话，我会写信给你。”我继续抗拒。这种抵抗使我付出的代价越来越少，因为，无论一个人多么热爱正在毁灭一个人的毒药，当一个人不得不离开它，并且在过去一段时间里不得不离开它时，一个人就会情不自禁地依恋它。一种人们已经不知道的心灵平静的价值，一种没有情感和痛苦的价值。如果一个人不完全真诚地保证自己不再希望再见到所爱的人，那么他也不会更真诚地表示愿意见到她。毫无疑问，只有当一个人向自己保证不会持续太久，并想到再次见到她的那一天时，一个人才能忍受她的缺席，但同时又感到那些每天反复出现的梦境是多么痛苦。与一次可能会引起一阵嫉妒的面谈相比，一次会面立即而不断地推迟，其结果是，一个人即将见到自己所爱的人的消息会引起一场不太愉快的骚动。一个人现在日复一日地拖延的不再是分离所带来的难以忍受的焦虑的结束，而是令人恐惧的情绪的更新，这将一事无成。 与任何这样的采访相比，人们是多么地喜欢温顺的记忆，人们可以随意地用梦来补充，在梦中，实际上不爱一个人的她似乎远非如此，当一个人在梦中时，她似乎在表达她对一个人的爱。独自;一个人可以通过逐渐将自己想要的东西的一部分与它混合来创造出一种记忆，使之变得尽可能令人愉快，人们是多么喜欢它，而不是避免与一个人打交道的生物。她再也不能随心所欲地说出人们想从她嘴里听到的话，但从她嘴里说出的却是一种新的冷漠和意想不到的暴力。我们所有人都知道，当我们不再爱时，健忘，即使是模糊的记忆也不会像不幸的爱情那样给我们带来那么多痛苦。正是由于这种健忘，我在期待中更喜欢平静的安宁，尽管我自己并没有承认这一点。

Moreover, whatever discomfort there may be in such a course of psychical detachment and isolation grows steadily less for another reason, namely that it weakens while it is in process of healing that fixed obsession which is a state of love. Mine was still strong enough for me to be able to count upon recapturing my old position in Gilberte’s estimation, which in view of my deliberate abstention must, it seemed to me, be steadily increasing; in other words each of those calm and melancholy days on which I did not see her, coming one after the other without interruption, continuing too without prescription (unless some busy-body were to meddle in my affairs), was a day not lost but gained. Gained to no purpose, it might be, for presently they would be able to pronounce that I was healed. Resignation, modulating our habits, allows certain elements of our strength to be indefinitely increased. Those—so wretchedly inadequate—that I had had to support my grief, on the first evening of my rupture with Gilberte, had since multiplied to an incalculable power. Only, the tendency which everything that exists has to prolong its own existence is sometimes interrupted by sudden impulses to which we give way with all the fewer scruples over letting ourselves go since we know for how many days, for how many months even we have been able, and might still be able to abstain. And often it is when the purse in which we hoard our savings is nearly full that we undo and empty it, it is without waiting for the result of our medical treatment and when we have succeeded in growing accustomed to it that we abandon it. So, one day, when Mme. Swann was repeating her familiar statement of what a pleasure it would be to Gilberte to see me, thus putting the happiness of which I had now for so long been depriving myself, as it were within arm’s length, I was stupefied by the realisation that it was still possible for me to enjoy that pleasure, and I could hardly wait until next day, when I had made up my mind to take Gilberte by surprise, in the evening, before dinner.
此外，在这种精神超然和孤立的过程中可能存在的任何不适都会由于另一个原因而逐渐减少，即在治愈固定的痴迷（即一种爱的状态）的过程中，这种不适会减弱。我的立场仍然足够强大，足以指望重新夺回希尔贝特认为我的旧地位，鉴于我故意弃权，在我看来，我的地位肯定会稳步上升；换句话说，那些平静而忧郁的日子，我没有见到她，一个接着一个，没有间断，也没有任何规定地持续下去（除非有什么好管闲事的人插手我的事情），这不是失去的一天，而是一天。获得了。可能没有任何意义，因为很快他们就可以宣布我已经痊愈了。顺从、调整我们的习惯，可以让我们的某些力量得到无限增强。在我与希尔贝特决裂的第一个晚上，这些——如此严重的不足——以至于我不得不支撑我的悲伤，但自那以后，这些力量已经成倍增加，产生了不可估量的力量。只是，一切存在的事物都必须延长其自身存在的趋势，有时会被突然的冲动所打断，我们会毫无顾忌地屈服于这种冲动，因为我们知道自己已经存在了多少天、多少月了。能够，并且可能仍然能够弃权。通常，当我们储存积蓄的钱包快满时，我们就会解开并掏空它，而没有等待我们的医疗结果，当我们成功地习惯了它时，我们就放弃了它。所以，有一天，当女士。 斯万正在重复她熟悉的说法，说希尔贝特见到我将是多么高兴，从而把我长期以来一直剥夺的幸福放在一臂之遥的范围内，我惊讶地意识到它我仍然有可能享受那种快乐，我迫不及待地等到第二天，当时我决定在晚上晚饭前给希尔贝特一个惊喜。

What helped me to remain patient throughout the long day that followed was another plan that I had made. From the moment in which everything was forgotten, in which I was reconciled to Gilberte, I no longer wished to visit her save as a lover. Every day she should receive from me the finest flowers that grew. And if Mme. Swann, albeit she had no right to be too severe a mother, should forbid my making a daily offering of flowers, I should find other gifts, more precious and less frequent. My parents did not give me enough money for me to be able to buy expensive things. I thought of a big bowl of old Chinese porcelain which had been left to me by aunt Léonie, and of which Mamma prophesied daily that Françoise would come running to her with an ‘Oh, it’s all come to pieces!’ and that that would be the end of it. Would it not be wiser, in that case, to part with it, to sell it so as to be able to give Gilberte all the pleasure I could. I felt sure that I could easily get a thousand francs for it. I had it tied up in paper; I had grown so used to it that I had ceased altogether to notice it; parting with it had at least the advantage of making me realise what it was like. I took it with me as I started for the Swanns’, and, giving the driver their address, told him to go by the Champs-Elysées, at one end of which was the shop of a big dealer in oriental things, who knew my father. Greatly to my surprise he offered me there and then not one thousand but ten thousand francs for the bowl. I took the notes with rapture. Every day, for a whole year, I could smother Gilberte in roses and lilac. When I left the shop and got into my cab again the driver (naturally enough, since the Swanns lived out by the Bois) instead of taking the ordinary way began to drive me along the Avenue des Champs-Elysées. He had just passed the end of the Rue de Berri when, in the failing light, I thought I saw, close to the Swanns’ house but going in the other direction, going away from it, Gilberte, who was walking slowly, though with a firm step, by the side of a young man with whom she was conversing, but whose face I could not distinguish. I stood up in the cab, meaning to tell the driver to stop; then hesitated. The strolling couple were already some way away, and the parallel lines which their leisurely progress was quietly drawing were on the verge of disappearing in the Elysian gloom. A moment later, I had reached Gilberte’s door. I was received by Mme. Swann. ‘Oh! she will be sorry!’ was my greeting, ‘I can’t think why she isn’t in. She came home just now from a lesson, complaining of the heat, and said she was going out for a little fresh air with another girl.’ ‘I fancy I passed her in the Avenue des Champs-Elysées.’ ‘Oh, I don’t think it can have been. Anyhow, don’t mention it to her father; he doesn’t approve of her going out at this time of night. Must you go? Good-bye.’ I left her, told my driver to go home the same way, but found no trace of the two walking figures. Where had they been? What were they saying to one another in the darkness so confidentially?
帮助我在接下来的漫长一天中保持耐心的是我制定的另一个计划。从一切都被遗忘、与希尔贝特和解的那一刻起，我不再希望以情人的身份去看望她。她每天都应该从我这里收到最美丽的花朵。如果女士。斯旺，尽管她没有权利成为一个过于严厉的母亲，但她应该禁止我每天献花，我应该找到其他更珍贵、更少的礼物。我的父母没有给我足够的钱让我买昂贵的东西。我想起了莱奥妮姨妈留给我的一大碗中国旧瓷器，妈妈每天都预言弗朗索瓦丝会跑到她面前，说：“哦，全都碎了！”那就是了。结束了。在这种情况下，放弃它、卖掉它，这样我就能给希尔贝特带来尽可能多的快乐，这不是更明智的做法吗？我确信我可以轻松地买到一千法郎。我把它用纸绑起来；我已经习惯了它，以至于我完全不再注意到它了。放弃它至少有一个好处，让我意识到它是什么样的。当我出发去斯旺家时，我带着它，给了司机地址，告诉他去香榭丽舍大街，香榭丽舍大街的一端是一家东方用品大经销商的商店，他知道我的生意。父亲。令我大吃一惊的是，他在那里给了我一碗，而不是一千法郎，而是一万法郎。我欣喜若狂地记下了笔记。一整年里的每一天，我都能用玫瑰和紫丁香让吉尔贝特窒息。 当我离开商店，再次坐上出租车时，司机（很自然，因为斯旺一家住在布瓦河畔）没有走普通的路，而是开始沿着香榭丽舍大街开车送我。他刚刚经过贝里街的尽头，在昏暗的光线中，我想我看到了希尔贝特，他走得很慢，虽然他的脚步很慢，但他正朝另一个方向走去，离斯旺家很近。她迈出坚定的一步，旁边是一个正在与她交谈的年轻人，但我看不清他的脸。我在驾驶室里站起来，想让司机停下来；然后犹豫了。漫步的情侣已经走远了，他们悠闲的行进所悄悄划出的平行线即将消失在极乐世界的阴暗之中。不一会儿，我就到了希尔贝特的门口。我受到了夫人的接待。斯旺。 '哦！她会后悔的！”这是我的问候，“我不明白她为什么不在家。她刚刚下课回家，抱怨天气太热，并说她要和另一个人出去呼吸新鲜空气。 “我想我是在香榭丽舍大街上经过她的。”“噢，我想不可能。”无论如何，不​​要向她父亲提起这件事；他不赞成她在深夜这个时候出去。你必须走吗？再见。”我离开了她，让司机原路回家，却没有发现那两个行走的身影。他们去哪儿了？他们在黑暗中如此秘密地互相交谈着什么？

I returned home, desperately clutching my windfall of ten thousand francs, which would have enabled me to arrange so many pleasant surprises for that Gilberte whom now I had made up my mind never to see again. No doubt my call at the dealer’s had brought me happiness by allowing me to expect that in future, whenever I saw my friend, she would be pleased with me and grateful. But if I had not called there, if my cabman had not taken the Avenue des Champs-Elysées, I should not have seen Gilberte with that young man. Thus a single action may have two contradictory effects, and the misfortune that it engenders cancel the good fortune that it has already brought one. There had befallen me the opposite of what so frequently happens. We desire some pleasure, and the material means of obtaining it are lacking. ‘It is a mistake,’ Labruyère tells us, ‘to be in love without an ample fortune.’ There is nothing for it but to attempt a gradual elimination of our desire for that pleasure. In my case, however, the material means had been forthcoming, but at the same moment, if not by a logical effect, at any rate as a fortuitous consequence of that initial success, my pleasure had been snatched from me.
我回到家，拼命地攥着一万法郎的意外之财，这本来可以让我为那个我已经下定决心不再见面的希尔贝特安排那么多惊喜。毫无疑问，我拜访经销商给我带来了快乐，让我期待将来每当我见到我的朋友时，她都会对我感到高兴和感激。但如果我没有打电话到那里，如果我的马车夫没有走香榭丽舍大街，我就不会看到希尔贝特和那个年轻人在一起。因此，一个行为可能会产生两种相反的效果，它所带来的不幸会抵消它已经带来的好运。我的遭遇与经常发生的情况相反。我们渴望某种快乐，但却缺乏获得快乐的物质手段。拉布鲁耶尔告诉我们，“在没有足够财富的情况下恋爱是一个错误。”除了尝试逐渐消除我们对这种快乐的渴望之外，别无他法。然而，就我而言，物质手段已经到来，但与此同时，即使不是出于逻辑效果，至少是最初成功的偶然结果，我的快乐也被夺走了。

As, for that matter, it seems as though it must always be. As a rule, however, not on the same evening on which we have acquired what makes it possible. Usually, we continue to struggle and to hope for a little longer. But the pleasure can never be realised. If we succeed in overcoming the force of circumstances, nature at once shifts the battle-ground, placing it within ourselves, and effects a gradual change in our heart until it desires something other than what it is going to obtain. And if this transposition has been so rapid that our heart has not had time to change, nature does not, on that account, despair of conquering us, in a manner more gradual, it is true, more subtle, but no less efficacious. It is then, at the last moment, that the possession of our happiness is wrested from us, or rather it is that very possession which nature, with diabolical cleverness, uses to destroy our happiness. After failure in every quarter of the domain of life and action, it is a final incapacity, the mental incapacity for happiness, that nature creates in us. The phenomenon, of happiness either fails to appear, or at once gives way to the bitterest of reactions.
就此而言，似乎总是如此。然而，通常情况下，不是在我们获得使之成为可能的东西的同一天晚上。通常，我们会继续奋斗，并希望能坚持得更久。但这种快乐永远无法实现。如果我们成功地克服了环境的力量，自然就会立即转移战场，将其置于我们自身之中，并逐渐改变我们的内心，直到它渴望得到与它想要获得的东西不同的东西。如果这种转变如此之快，以至于我们的心还没有时间改变，那么大自然并不会因此而绝望地以一种更渐进、更微妙、更微妙的方式征服我们，这是真实的，但同样有效。就在那时，在最后一刻，我们对幸福的占有被从我们手中夺走，或者更确切地说，正是这种占有，大自然以恶魔般的聪明才智用来摧毁我们的幸福。在生活和行动领域的各个方面都失败之后，大自然在我们身上造成了最终的无能，即精神上的幸福无能。幸福的现象要么没有出现，要么立即让位于最痛苦的反应。

I put my ten thousand francs in a drawer. But they were no longer of any use to me. I ran through them, as it happened, even sooner than if I had sent flowers every day to Gilberte, for when evening came I was always too wretched to stay in the house and used to go and pour out my sorrows upon the bosoms of women whom I did not love. As for seeking to give any sort of pleasure to Gilberte, I no longer thought of that; to visit her house again now could only have added to my sufferings. Even the sight of Gilberte, which would have been so exquisite a pleasure only yesterday, would no longer have sufficed me. For I should have been miserable all the time that I was not actually with her. That is how a woman, by every fresh torture that she inflicts on us, increases, often quite unconsciously, her power over us and at the same time our demands upon her. With each injury that she does us, she encircles us more and more completely, doubles our chains—but halves the strength of those which hitherto we had thought adequate to bind her in order that we might retain our own peace of mind. Only yesterday, had I not been afraid of annoying Gilberte, I should have been content to ask for no more than occasional meetings, which now would no longer have contented me and for which I should now have substituted quite different terms. For in this respect love is not like war; after the battle is ended we renew the fight with keener ardour, which we never cease to intensify the more thoroughly we are defeated, provided always that we are still in a position to give battle. This was not my position with regard to Gilberte. Also I preferred, at first, not to see her mother again. I continued, it is true, to assure myself that Gilberte did not love me, that I had known this for ever so long, that I could see her again if I chose, and, if I did not choose, forget her in course of time. But these ideas, like a remedy which has no effect upon certain complaints, had no power whatsoever to obliterate those two parallel lines which I kept on seeing, traced by Gilberte and the young man as they slowly disappeared along the Avenue des Champs-Elysées. This was a fresh misfortune, which like the rest would gradually lose its force, a fresh image which would one day present itself to my mind’s eye completely purged of every noxious element that it now contained, like those deadly poisons which one can handle without danger, or like a crumb of dynamite which one can use to light one’s cigarette without fear of an explosion. Meanwhile there was in me another force which was striving with all its might to overpower that unwholesome force which still shewed me, without alteration, the figure of Gilberte walking in the dusk: to meet and to break the shock of the renewed assaults of memory, I had, toiling effectively on the other side, imagination. The former force did indeed continue to shew me that couple walking in the Champs-Elysées, and offered me other disagreeable pictures drawn from the past, as for instance Gilberte shrugging her shoulders when her mother asked her to stay and entertain me. But the other force, working upon the canvas of my hopes, outlined a future far more attractively developed than this poor past which, after all, was so restricted. For one minute in which I saw Gilberte’s sullen face, how many were there in which I planned to my own satisfaction all the steps that she was to take towards our reconciliation, perhaps even towards our betrothal. It is true that this force, which my imagination was concentrating upon the future, it was drawing, for all that, from the past. I was still in love with her whom, it is true, I believed that I detested. But whenever anyone told me that I was looking well, or was nicely dressed, I wished that she could have been there to see me. I was irritated by the desire that many people shewed about this time to ask me to their houses, and refused all their invitations. There was a scene at home because I did not accompany my father to an official dinner at which the Bontemps were to be present with their niece Albertine, a young girl still hardly more than a child. So it is that the different periods of our life overlap one another. We scornfully decline, because of one whom we love and who will some day be of so little account, to see another who is of no account to-day, with whom we shall be in love to-morrow, with whom we might, perhaps, had we consented to see her now, have fallen in love a little earlier and who would thus have put a term to our present sufferings, bringing others, it is true, in their place. Mine were steadily growing less. I had the surprise of discovering in my own heart one sentiment one day, another the next, generally inspired by some hope or some fear relative to Gilberte. To the Gilberte whom I kept within me. I ought to have reminded myself that the other, the real Gilberte, was perhaps entirely different from mine, knew nothing of the regrets that I ascribed to her, was thinking probably less about me, not merely than I was thinking about her but that I made her be thinking about me when I was closeted alone with my fictitious Gilberte, wondering what really were her feelings with regard to me and so imagining her attention as constantly directed towards myself.
我把一万法郎放在抽屉里。但它们对我来说已经没有任何用处了。碰巧，我跑过它们，甚至比我每天给希尔贝特送花还要早，因为当晚上来临的时候，我总是太可怜，无法呆在房子里，常常去把我的悲伤倾倒在女人的怀里。我不爱谁。至于要给希尔贝特带来什么快乐，我已经不再想了。现在再次去她家只会增加我的痛苦。即使是看到希尔贝特，昨天还觉得如此美妙，现在也不再让我满足了。因为如果我没有真正和她在一起，我应该一直感到痛苦。这就是女人如何通过她对我们施加的每一次新的折磨，常常在不知不觉中增强她对我们的影响力，同时增强我们对她的要求。她对我们造成的每一次伤害，都会越来越彻底地包围我们，使我们的锁链加倍——但迄今为止我们认为足以束缚她的锁链的力量却减半，以便我们可以保持内心的平静。就在昨天，如果我不是害怕惹恼希尔贝特，我只会满足于要求偶尔的会面，但现在我不再满足于这种会面，我现在应该用完全不同的术语来代替。因为在这方面，爱情不同于战争；爱情不同于战争。战斗结束后，我们会以更加强烈的热情重新开始战斗，只要我们仍然能够战斗，我们被打败得越彻底，我们就不会停止战斗。这不是我对吉尔贝特的立场。起初，我也不愿意再见到她的母亲。 确实，我继续向自己保证希尔贝特不爱我，我早就知道这一点，如果我选择，我可以再次见到她，如果我不选择，我会在过程中忘记她。时间。但这些想法，就像对某些抱怨没有效果的补救措施一样，没有任何力量抹去我不断看到的那两条平行线，希尔贝特和年轻人沿着香榭丽舍大街慢慢消失。这是一种新鲜的不幸，就像其他的不幸一样，它会逐渐失去它的力量，一种新鲜的形象有一天会出现在我的脑海中，完全清除了它现在所包含的每一种有毒元素，就像那些人们可以毫无危险地处理的致命毒药一样。 ，或者像炸药屑一样，人们可以用它来点燃香烟而不必担心爆炸。与此同时，我体内有另一种力量，正在竭尽全力地抵抗那股不健康的力量，它仍然向我展示着希尔贝特在黄昏中行走的身影，没有任何改变：迎接并打破记忆新的攻击的震惊，我在另一边有效地劳作，我有想象力。前部队确实继续向我展示那对在香榭丽舍大街散步的情侣，并给我提供了其他令人不愉快的过去的照片，例如当她母亲要求她留下来招待我时，希尔贝特耸了耸肩。但另一种力量，在我的希望画布上描绘了一个远比这个可怜的过去更有吸引力的未来，毕竟，过去是如此受到限制。 在我看到希尔贝特阴沉的脸的一分钟里，我有多少次在其中计划着让她为我们和解甚至订婚而采取的所有步骤，让我自己满意。确实，我的想象力集中在未来的这种力量，尽管如此，它却是从过去汲取的。我仍然爱着她，确实，我相信我厌恶她。但每当有人告诉我我看起来很好，或者穿着很漂亮时，我都希望她能在那儿看到我。这次许多人都表现出邀请我去他们家的愿望，这让我很恼火，并拒绝了他们的所有邀请。家里发生了这样的一幕，因为我没有陪父亲参加一场正式的晚宴，邦当夫妇将带着他们的侄女阿尔贝蒂娜出席，她是一个还只是个孩子的小女孩。因此，我们生命中的不同时期是相互重叠的。我们轻蔑地拒绝见另一位我们所爱的人，而他有一天会变得如此无足轻重，而今天却无足轻重，明天我们将与他相爱，也许我们可能会与他相爱。如果我们现在同意见她，早一点坠入爱河，那么她就会为我们目前的痛苦划上一个期限，确实将其他人带到他们的位置。我的逐渐减少。我惊讶地发现自己的内心有一天会出现一种情绪，第二天又会出现另一种情绪，通常是受到与希尔贝特有关的某种希望或某种恐惧的启发。致我内心深处的希尔贝特。 我应该提醒自己，另一个人，真正的希尔贝特，也许与我完全不同，她对我归咎于她的遗憾一无所知，可能更少为我着想，不仅是我在为她着想，而且我在为她着想。当我和我虚构的吉尔贝特单独在一起时，让她想起我，想知道她对我的真实感受是什么，因此想象她的注意力不断集中在我身上。

During those periods in which our bitterness of spirit, though steadily diminishing, still persists, a distinction must be drawn between the bitterness which comes to us from our constantly thinking of the person herself and that which is revived by certain memories, some cutting speech, some word in a letter that we have had from her. The various forms which that bitterness can assume we shall examine when we come to deal with another and later love affair; for the present it must suffice to say that, of these two kinds, the former is infinitely the less cruel. That is because our conception of the person, since it dwells always within ourselves, is there adorned with the halo with which we are bound before long to invest her, and bears the marks if not of the frequent solace of hope, at any rate of the tranquillity of a permanent sorrow. (It must also be observed that the image of a person who makes us suffer counts for little if anything in those complications which aggravate the unhappiness of love, prolong it and prevent our recovery, just as in certain maladies the cause is insignificant beyond comparison with the fever which follows it and the time that must elapse before our convalescence.) But if the idea of the person whom we love catches and reflects a ray of light from a mind which is on the whole optimistic, it is not so with those special memories, those cutting words, that inimical letter (I received only one that could be so described from Gilberte); you would say that the person herself dwelt in those fragments, few and scattered as they were, and dwelt there multiplied to a power of which she falls ever so far short in the idea which we are accustomed to form of her as a whole. Because the letter has not—as the image of the beloved creature has—been contemplated by us in the melancholy calm of regret; we have read it, devoured it in the fearful anguish with which we were wrung by an unforeseen misfortune. Sorrows of this sort come to us in another way; from without; and it is along the road of the most cruel suffering that they have penetrated to our heart. The picture of our friend in our mind, which we believe to be old, original, authentic, has in reality been refashioned by her many times over. The cruel memory is not itself contemporary with the restored picture, it is of another age, it is one of the rare witnesses to a monstrous past. But inasmuch as this past continues to exist, save in ourselves, who have been pleased to substitute for it a miraculous age of gold, a paradise in which all mankind shall be reconciled, those memories, those letters carry us back to reality, and cannot but make us feel, by the sudden pang they give us, what a long way we have been borne from that reality by the baseless hopes engendered daily while we waited for something to happen. Not that the said reality is bound always to remain the same, though that does indeed happen at times. There are in our life any number of women whom we have never wished to see again, and who have quite naturally responded to our in no way calculated silence with a silence as profound. Only in their case as we never loved them, we have never counted the years spent apart from them, and this instance, which would invalidate our whole argument, we are inclined to forget when we are considering the healing effect of isolation, just as people who believe in presentiments forget all the occasions on which their own have not ‘come true.’
在我们精神上的痛苦虽然逐渐减少但仍然存在的那些时期，必须区分我们因不断地思考这个人本身而产生的痛苦和因某些记忆、一些刻薄的言论而复活的痛苦之间的区别。我们从她那里收到的一封信中的一些话。当我们处理另一段以及后来的爱情事件时，我们将考察这种痛苦可以采取的各种形式。就目前而言，我必须说，在这两种类型中，前者远没有那么残酷。那是因为，我们对人的观念，因为它总是存在于我们自己的内心，所以装饰着我们不久之后必将赋予她的光环，并且带有希望的经常安慰的印记，至少是永久悲伤的平静。 （还必须指出的是，一个让我们受苦的人的形象在那些加剧爱情不幸、延长爱情并阻止我们康复的并发症中几乎没有什么意义，就像在某些疾病中，其原因是微不足道的，无法与其他疾病相比）随之而来的发烧以及康复之前必须经过的时间。）但是，如果我们所爱的人的想法从总体上乐观的心灵中捕捉并反射出一线光芒，那么对于那些特殊的人来说却并非如此。回忆，那些刻薄的话语，那封充满敌意的信（我只收到了一封来自吉尔贝特的信）；你可能会说，这个人本身就居住在那些碎片中，尽管它们很少而分散，但居住在那里的力量却倍增，而她在我们习惯于将她作为一个整体形成的观念中远远达不到这种力量。 因为我们并没有像心爱的生物的形象那样，在悔恨的忧郁平静中思考这封信；我们读过它，在一种不可预见的不幸所带来的可怕痛苦中吞噬了它。这种悲伤会以另一种方式降临到我们身上。来自外部；他们正是沿着最残酷的苦难之路，深入我们的内心。我们心中朋友的形象，我们相信是古老的、原始的、真实的，但实际上已经被她重塑了很多次。残酷的记忆本身并不与修复的图片同时发生，它属于另一个时代，它是可怕过去的罕见见证之一。但只要这段过去继续存在，除了我们自己，我们很乐意用一个神奇的黄金时代来代替它，一个全人类都和解的天堂，那些记忆，那些信件把我们带回到现实，并且不能但是，它们给我们带来的突然的痛苦让我们感到，我们在等待事情发生时每天产生的毫无根据的希望，使我们与现实相去甚远。并不是说上述现实一定会保持不变，尽管这种情况有时确实会发生。在我们的生活中，有很多女人我们再也不想见到她们，而她们却很自然地以同样深刻的沉默回应了我们毫无刻意的沉默。只是就他们而言，因为我们从未爱过他们，我们从未计算过与他们分开的岁月，而这种情况会使我们的整个论点无效，当我们考虑孤立的治疗效果时，我们往往会忘记，就像人一样相信预感的人会忘记自己的预感尚未“实现”的所有情况。’

But, after a time, absence may prove efficacious. The desire, the appetite for seeing us again may after all be reborn in the heart which at present contemns us. Only, we must allow time. Now the demands which we ourselves make upon time are no less exorbitant than those of a heart in process of changing. For one thing, time is the very thing that we are least willing to allow, for our own suffering is keen and we are anxious to see it brought to an end. And then, too, the interval of time which the other heart needs to effect its change our own heart will have spent in changing itself also, so that when the goal which we had set ourselves becomes attainable it will have ceased to count as a goal, or to seem worth attaining. This idea, however, that it will be attainable, that what, when it no longer spells any good fortune to us, we shall ultimately secure is not good fortune, this idea embodies a part, but a part only of the truth. Our good fortune accrues to us when we have grown indifferent to it. But the very fact of our indifference will have made us less exacting, and allow us in retrospect to feel convinced that we should have been in raptures over our good fortune had it come at a time when, very probably, it would have seemed to us miserably inadequate. People are not very hard to satisfy nor are they very good judges of matters in which they take no interest. The friendly overtures of a person whom we no longer love, overtures which strike us, in our indifference to her, as excessive, would perhaps have fallen a long way short of satisfying our love. Those tender speeches, that invitation or acceptance, we think only of the pleasure which they would have given us, and not of all those other speeches and meetings by which we should have wished to see them immediately followed, which we should, as likely as not, simply by our avidity for them, have precluded from ever happening. So that we can never be certain that the good fortune which comes to us too late, when we are no longer in love, is altogether the same as that good fortune the want of which made us, at one time, so unhappy. There is only one person who could decide that; our ego of those days; he is no longer with us, and were he to reappear, no doubt that would be quite enough to make our good fortune—whether identical or not—vanish.
但一段时间后，缺席可能会被证明是有效的。再次见到我们的渴望和欲望最终可能会在目前蔑视我们的心中重生。只是，我们必须留出时间。现在，我们对时间的要求并不亚于一颗正在改变的心灵的要求。一方面，时间是我们最不愿意允许的事情，因为我们自己的痛苦是强烈的，我们渴望看到它结束。然后，另一颗心实现其改变所需的时间间隔，我们自己的心也将花费在改变自己上，这样，当我们为自己设定的目标可以实现时，它就不再算作一个目标。 ，或者看起来值得实现。然而，这种想法是可以实现的，当它不再给我们带来任何好运时，我们最终将获得的并不是好运，这种想法体现了一部分，但只是真理的一部分。当我们对它变得漠不关心时，我们的好运就会降临到我们身上。但我们的冷漠这一事实本身就会让我们不那么苛求，并让我们在事后回想起来时确信，如果我们的好运来得正是时候，我们很可能会认为，我们应该为我们的好运而欣喜若狂。严重不足。人们并不很难满足，也不会很好地判断自己不感兴趣的事情。一个我们不再爱的人的友好示好，使我们对她漠不关心，感到震惊的示好是过分的，也许远远不能满足我们的爱。 那些温柔的演讲，那种邀请或接受，我们只想到他们会给我们带来的快乐，而不是所有那些我们希望立即看到他们的其他演讲和会议，我们应该，就像仅仅因为我们对它们的渴望，并不能阻止这种情况的发生。因此，我们永远无法确定，当我们不再相爱时，来得太晚的好运是否与我们一度因缺乏而感到如此不快乐的好运完全一样。只有一个人可以决定这一点：那时我们的自我；他已经不再和我们在一起了，如果他再次出现，毫无疑问，这足以让我们的好运——无论是否相同——消失。

Pending these posthumous fulfilments of a dream in which I should not, when the time came, be greatly interested, by dint of my having to invent, as in the days when I still hardly knew Gilberte, speeches, letters in which she implored my forgiveness, swore that she had never loved anyone but myself and besought me to marry her, a series of pleasant images incessantly renewed came by degrees to hold a larger place in my mind than the vision of Gilberte and the young man, which had nothing now to feed upon. At this point I should perhaps have resumed my visits to Mme. Swann but for a dream that came to me, in which one of my friends, who was not, however, one that I could identify, behaved with the utmost treachery towards me and appeared to believe that I had been treacherous to him. Abruptly awakened by the nain which this dream had given me, and finding that it persisted after I was awake, I turned my thoughts back to the dream, racked my brains to discover who could have been the friend whom I had seen in my sleep, the sound of whose name—a Spanish name—was no longer distinct in my ears. Combining Joseph’s part with Pharaoh’s, I set to work to interpret my dream. I knew that, when one is interpreting a dream, it is often a mistake to pay too much attention to the appearance of the people one saw in it, who may perhaps have been disguised or have exchanged faces, like those mutilated saints on the walls of cathedrals which ignorant archaeologists have restored, fitting the body of one to the head of another and confusing all their attributes and names. Those that people bear in a dream are apt to mislead us. The person with whom we are in love is to be recognised only by the intensity of the pain that we suffer. From mine I learned that, though transformed while I was asleep into a young man, the person whose recent betrayal still hurt me was Gilberte. I remembered then that, the last time I had seen her, on the day when her mother had forbidden her to go out to a dancing-lesson, she had, whether in sincerity or in make-believe, declined, laughing in a strange manner, to believe in the genuineness of my feeling for her. And by association this memory brought back to me another. Long before that, it had been Swann who would not believe in my sincerity, nor that I was a suitable friend for Gilberte. In vain had I written to him, Gilberte had brought back my letter and had returned it to me with the same incomprehensible laugh. She had not returned it to me at once: I remembered now the whole of that scene behind the clump of laurels. As soon as one is unhappy one becomes moral. Gilberte’s recent antipathy for me seemed to me a judgment delivered on me by life for my conduct that afternoon. Such judgments one imagines one can escape because one looks out for carriages when one is crossing the street, and avoids obvious dangers. But there are others that take effect within us. The accident comes from the side to which one has not been looking, from inside, from the heart. Gilberte’s words: ‘If you like, we might go on wrestling,’ made me shudder. I imagined her behaving like that, at home perhaps, in the linen-room, with the young man whom I had seen escorting her along the Avenue des Champs-Elysées. And so, just as when, a little time back, I had believed myself to be calmly established in a state of happiness, it had been fatuous in me, now that I had abandoned all thought of happiness, to take for granted that at least I had grown and was going to remain calm. For, so long as our heart keeps enshrined with any permanence the image of another person, it is not only our happiness that may at any moment be destroyed; when that happiness has vanished, when we have suffered, and, later, when we have succeeded in lulling our sufferings to sleep, the thing then that is as elusive, as precarious as ever our happiness was, is our calm. Mine returned to me in the end, for the cloud which, lowering our resistance, tempering our desires, has penetrated, in the train of a dream, the enclosure of our mind, is bound, in course of time, to dissolve, permanence and stability being assured to nothing in this world, not even to grief. Besides, those whose suffering is due to love are, as we say of certain invalids, their own physicians. As consolation can come to them only from the person who is the cause of their grief, and as their grief is an emanation from that person, it is there, in their grief itself, that they must in the end find a remedy: which it will disclose to them at a given moment, for as long as they turn it over in their minds this grief will continue to shew them fresh aspects of the loved, the regretted creature, at one moment so intensely hateful that one has no longer the slightest desire to see her, since before finding enjoyment in her company one would have first to make her suffer, at another so pleasant that the pleasantness in which one has invested her one adds to her own stock of good qualities and finds in it a fresh reason for hope. But even although the anguish that had reawakened in me did at length grow calm, I no longer wished—except just occasionally—to visit Mme. Swann. In the first place because, among those who love and have been forsaken, the state of incessant—even if unconfessed—expectancy in which they live undergoes a spontaneous transformation, and, while to all appearance unchanged, substitutes for its original elements others that are precisely the opposite. The first were the consequences of—a reaction from—the painful incidents which had upset us. The tension of waiting for what is yet to come is mingled with fear, all the more since we desire at such moments, should no message come to us from her whom we love, to act for ourselves, and are none too confident of the success of a step which, once we have taken it, we may find it impossible to follow up. But presently, without our having noticed any change, this tension, which still endures, is sustained, we discover, no longer by our recollection of the past but by anticipation of an imaginary future. From that moment it is almost pleasant. Besides, the first state, by continuing for some time, has accustomed us to living in expectation. The suffering that we felt during those last meetings survives in us still, but is already lulled to sleep. We are in no haste to arouse it, especially as we do not see very clearly what to ask for now. The possession of a little more of the woman whom we love would only make more essential to us the part that we did not yet possess, which is bound to remain, whatever happens, since our requirements are begotten of our satisfactions, an irreducible quantity.
在我死后实现这个梦想之前，当时机成熟时，我不应该对这个梦想抱有很大的兴趣，因为我必须像在我还几乎不认识希尔贝特的日子里那样，发明她恳求我原谅的演讲和信件，发誓她从来没有爱过任何人，除了我自己，并恳求我嫁给她，一系列不断更新的愉快的形象逐渐在我的脑海中占据了比希尔贝特和年轻人的愿景更大的位置，现在没有什么可做的了。以.在这一点上，我也许应该继续拜访夫人。斯旺只是因为我做了一个梦，在梦中，我的一位朋友（但我无法识别他的身份）对我表现出极大的背叛，并且似乎相信我对他背叛了。我突然被这个梦给我带来的不舒服惊醒，醒来后发现这种不舒服仍然存在，我把思绪转回到梦里，绞尽脑汁地想知道谁可能是我睡梦中见到的朋友，他的名字——一个西班牙名字——在我耳边已不再清晰。将约瑟的部分和法老的部分结合起来，我开始努力解释我的梦。我知道，当一个人解梦时，过分关注梦中人物的外表往往是错误的，他们可能已经乔装打扮或交换了面孔，就像墙上那些残缺不全的圣人一样。无知的考古学家修复了一些大教堂，将一个人的身体贴在另一个人的头上，并混淆了它们的所有属性和名称。人们在梦中所怀的东西很容易误导我们。我们所爱的人只有通过我们所承受的痛苦的强度才能被认出。 从我的口中我得知，尽管我在睡梦中变成了一个年轻人，但最近的背叛仍然伤害着我的人是希尔贝特。我记得，我最后一次见到她，是在她母亲禁止她出去上舞蹈课的那天，她不知是真心还是假意地拒绝了，并以一种奇怪的方式笑了笑。 ，相信我对她的感情是真实的。通过联想，这段记忆又让我想起了另一个。早在这之前，斯旺就一直不相信我的诚意，也不相信我是希尔贝特合适的朋友。我徒劳地写信给他，希尔贝特把我的信带回来，并以同样令人费解的笑声把它还给了我。她没有立即把它还给我：我现在记起了桂树丛后面的整个场景。人一不高兴，就会变得有道德。在我看来，吉尔贝特最近对我的反感似乎是生活对我那天下午的行为做出的判断。人们想象这样的判断可以逃脱，因为过马路时要留意马车，避免明显的危险。但还有其他一些因素在我们内部发挥作用。事故来自于人们没有看到的那一面，来自于内心，来自于内心。吉尔贝特的话：“如果你愿意，我们可以继续摔跤，”让我不寒而栗。我想象她的表现就是这样，也许是在家里，在亚麻布房间里，和我看到的那个年轻人陪着她沿着香榭丽舍大街走。因此，就像不久前我还相信自己能够平静地处于幸福状态一样，现在我已经放弃了所有关于幸福的想法，理所当然地认为至少我已经长大了，会保持冷静。 因为，只要我们的心中永远铭记着另一个人的形象，我们的幸福就不仅随时可能被摧毁，而且我们的幸福也会随时被摧毁。当幸福消失时，当我们受苦时，当我们成功地让痛苦入睡时，我们的平静就和我们的幸福一样难以捉摸、岌岌可危。我的云最终又回到了我的身边，因为云降低了我们的抵抗力，调和了我们的欲望，在梦的列车中渗透进了我们心灵的围墙，随着时间的推移，它必然会溶解、永久和消失。这个世界上没有任何事物能够保证稳定，甚至不会带来悲伤。此外，正如我们对某些病人所说的那样，那些因爱而受苦的人是他们自己的医生。由于安慰只能从造成他们悲伤的人那里得到，而且他们的悲伤是从那个人身上散发出来的，所以他们最终必须在悲伤本身中找到一种补救办法：会在某个特定的时刻向他们透露，因为只要他们在脑海中翻来覆去，这种悲伤就会继续向他们展示所爱的人、令人遗憾的生物的新侧面，在某一时刻是如此强烈的可恨，以至于人们不再有丝毫的悲伤。渴望见到她，因为在她的陪伴中找到乐趣之前，一个人必须先让她受苦，而另一个人是如此令人愉快，以致于一个人为她投入的愉快增加了她自己的良好品质，并在其中找到了一个新的理由为了希望。尽管我内心重新苏醒的痛苦最终平静下来，但我不再希望——除了偶尔——去看望夫人。斯旺。 首先，因为在那些爱着又被抛弃的人中间，他们所生活的那种持续不断的——即使没有承认的——期望状态经历了自发的转变，虽然表面上看没有任何变化，但它的原始元素却被其他的元素所取代。恰恰相反。第一个是让我们心烦意乱的痛苦事件的后果——反应。等待即将到来的事情的紧张感与恐惧交织在一起，尤其是因为我们在这样的时刻渴望，如果我们所爱的人没有给我们任何消息，我们就可以为自己采取行动，并且对成功没有太大信心一旦我们采取了某个步骤，我们可能会发现无法采取后续行动。但目前，在我们没有注意到任何变化的情况下，我们发现，这种仍然持续存在的紧张关系不再是通过我们对过去的回忆，而是通过对想象中的未来的预期而得以维持。从那一刻起，这几乎是愉快的。此外，第一种状态持续一段时间后，已经让我们习惯于生活在期待之中。我们在上次会议中感受到的痛苦仍然存在于我们之中，但已经进入了睡眠状态。我们并不急于唤醒它，特别是因为我们现在还不太清楚要要求什么。多占有我们所爱的女人一点点，只会使我们尚未拥有的部分变得更加重要，无论发生什么，这部分都必定会保留下来，因为我们的要求是由我们的满足产生的，是一个不可减少的数量。

Another, final reason came later on to reinforce this, and to make me discontinue altogether my visits to Mme. Swann. This reason, slow in revealing itself, was not that I had now forgotten Gilberte but that I must make every effort to forget her as speedily as possible. No doubt, now that the keen edge of my suffering was dulled, my visits to Mme. Swann had become once again, for what sorrow remained in me, the sedative and distraction which had been so precious to me at first. But what made the sedative efficacious made the distraction impossible, namely that with these visits the memory of Gilberte was intimately blended. The distraction would be of no avail to me unless it was employed to combat a sentiment which the presence of Gilberte no longer nourished, thoughts, interests, passions in which Gilberte should have no part. These states of consciousness, to which the person whom we love remains a stranger, then occupy a place which, however small it may be at first, is always so much reconquered from the love that has been in unchallenged possession of our whole soul. We must seek to encourage these thoughts, to make them grow, while the sentiment which is no more now than a memory dwindles, so that the new elements introduced into our mind contest with that sentiment, wrest from it an ever increasing part of our soul, until at last the victory is complete. I decided that this was the only way in which my love could be killed, and I was still young enough, still courageous enough to undertake the attempt, to subject myself to that most cruel grief which springs from the certainty that, whatever time one may devote to the effort, it will prove successful in the end. The reason I now gave in my letters to Gilberte for refusing to see her was an allusion to some mysterious misunderstanding, wholly fictitious, which was supposed to have arisen between her and myself, and as to which I had hoped at first that Gilberte would insist upon my furnishing her with an explanation. But, as a matter of fact, never, even in the most insignificant relations in life, does a request for enlightenment come from a correspondent who knows that an obscure, untruthful, incriminating sentence has been written on purpose, so that he shall protest against it, and is only too glad to feel, when he reads it, that he possesses—and to keep in his own hands—the initiative in the coming operations. For all the more reason is this so in our more tender relations, in which love is endowed with so much eloquence, indifference with so little curiosity. Gilberte having never appeared to doubt nor sought to learn more about this misunderstanding, it became for me a real entity, to which I referred anew in every letter. And there is in these baseless situations, in the affectation of coldness, a sort of fascination which tempts one to persevere in them. By dint of writing: ‘Now that our hearts are sundered,’ so that Gilberte might answer: ‘But they are not. Do explain what you mean,’ I had gradually come to believe that they were. By constantly repeating, ‘Life may have changed for us, it will never destroy the feeling that we had for one another,’ in the hope of hearing myself, one day, say: ‘But there has been no change, the feeling is stronger now than ever it was,’ I was living with the idea that life had indeed changed, that we should keep only the memory of a feeling which no longer existed, as certain neurotics, from having at first pretended to be ill, end by becoming chronic invalids. Now, whenever I had to write to Gilberte, I brought my mind back to this imagined change, which, being now tacitly admitted by the silence which she preserved with regard to it in her replies, would in future subsist between us. Then Gilberte ceased to make a point of ignoring it. She too adopted my point of view; and, as in the speeches at official banquets, when the foreign Sovereign who is being entertained adopts practically the same expressions as have just been used by the Sovereign who is entertaining him, whenever I wrote to Gilberte: ‘Life may have parted us; the memory of the days when we knew one another will endure,’ she never failed to respond: ‘Life may have parted us; it cannot make us forget those happy hours which will always be dear to us both,’ (though we should have found it hard to say why or how ‘Life’-had parted us, or what change had occurred). My sufferings were no longer excessive. And yet, one day when I was telling her in a letter that I had heard of the death of our old barley-sugar woman in the Champs-Elysées, as I wrote the words: ‘I felt at once that this would distress you, in me it awakened a host of memories,’ I could not restrain myself from bursting into tears when I saw that I was speaking in the past tense, as though it were of some dead friend, now almost forgotten, of this love of which in spite of myself I had never ceased to think as of a thing still alive, or one that at least might be born again. Nothing can be more affectionate than this sort of correspondence between friends who do not wish to see one another any more. Gilberte’s letters to me had all the delicate refinement of those which I used to write to people who did not matter, and shewed me the same apparent marks of affection, which it was so pleasant for me to receive from her.
后来出现的另一个最后的原因强化了这一点，并使我完全停止拜访夫人。斯旺。这个原因慢慢地显现出来，并不是因为我现在已经忘记了希尔贝特，而是因为我必须尽一切努力尽快忘记她。毫无疑问，现在我痛苦的尖锐边缘已经麻木了，我去拜访夫人。斯旺再次成为我心中残留的悲伤的镇静剂和消遣剂，而这对我来说是一开始如此珍贵的。但镇静剂之所以有效，是因为这些拜访使希尔贝特的记忆紧密地融为一体，从而使分心变得不可能。分散注意力对我来说是没有任何用处的，除非它是用来对抗吉尔贝特的存在不再滋养的情感，希尔贝特不应该参与的思想、兴趣和激情。我们所爱的人对这些意识状态仍然是陌生的，然后占据了一个位置，无论一开始它多么小，总是会被我们整个灵魂无可争议地占有的爱重新征服。我们必须设法鼓励这些想法，使它们成长，而现在只不过是记忆的情感却在减少，因此引入我们头脑的新元素会与这种情感竞争，并从它中夺取我们灵魂中不断增加的部分。 ，直到最后取得胜利。我决定这是杀死我的爱的唯一方法，而且我还年轻，仍然有足够的勇气去尝试，让自己承受最残酷的悲伤，这种悲伤源于确定性，无论何时，付出努力，最终一定会成功。 我现在在给希尔贝特的信中拒绝见她的原因是暗示了某种神秘的误会，完全是虚构的，这应该是我和她之间发生的，而我一开始希望希尔贝特会坚持这一点。在我向她提供解释之后。但事实上，即使是在生活中最微不足道的关系中，即使是在生活中最微不足道的关系中，一位记者也绝不会在知道故意写下晦涩难懂、不真实的定罪判决，以便他抗议的情况下提出启蒙请求。当他读到它时，他非常高兴地感到自己拥有并且掌握着未来行动的主动权。更重要的是，在我们更加温柔的关系中更是如此，在这种关系中，爱被赋予了如此多的雄辩，而冷漠却很少有好奇心。希尔贝特似乎从来没有怀疑过，也没有试图了解更多关于这种误解的信息，它对我来说成了一个真实的实体，我在每封信中都重新提到了它。在这些毫无根据的情况下，在冷酷的做作中，有一种诱惑人坚持下去的魅力。通过写道：“现在我们的心已经分开了”，这样希尔贝特就可以回答：“但他们并没有。”请解释一下你的意思，”我逐渐相信他们是这样的。 通过不断地重复，“生活对我们来说可能已经改变，它永远不会破坏我们对彼此的感觉”，希望有一天能听到自己说：“但没有改变，这种感觉更强烈了”现在比以往任何时候都更糟糕，”我生活在这样的想法中：生活确实已经改变了，我们应该只保留一种不再存在的感觉的记忆，就像某些神经症患者一样，从一开始假装生病，到最后变成慢性病者。现在，每当我不得不写信给希尔贝特时，我都会想起这种想象中的变化，而她在回复中对此保持沉默，现在已经默认了这种变化，这种变化将来会存在于我们之间。然后希尔贝特不再故意忽视它。她也采纳了我的观点；而且，就像在正式宴会上的演讲中一样，每当我写信给希尔贝特时，当正在招待的外国君主采用与刚刚招待他的君主几乎相同的表达方式时，我写信给希尔贝特：我们相识的日子的记忆将永远存在，”她总是回答道：“生活也许已经把我们分开了；也许我们已经分开了。它不能让我们忘记那些对我们俩来说永远都是珍贵的快乐时光。”（尽管我们应该发现很难说出“生活”为什么或如何分开我们，或者发生了什么变化）。我的痛苦不再是过度的。 然而，有一天，当我在一封信中告诉她，我听说香榭丽舍大街上我们的大麦糖老妇人去世的消息时，我写下了这样的话：“我立刻感到这会让你感到痛苦， “它唤醒了我的许多记忆。”当我看到自己用过去时态说话时，我无法克制自己泪流满面，仿佛这是在谈论某个死去的朋友，现在几乎被遗忘了，在谈论这种爱时，我无法抑制自己的泪水。我不由自主地一直在思考一件仍然活着的事情，或者至少可能重生的事情。没有什么比不想再见面的朋友之间的这种通信更深情的了。希尔贝特给我的信与我以前写给无关紧要的人的信一样精致，并且向我展示了同样明显的感情痕迹，从她那里收到这对我来说是非常愉快的。

But, as time went on, every refusal to see her disturbed me less. And as she became less dear to me, my painful memories were no longer strong enough to destroy by their incessant return the growing pleasure which I found in thinking of Florence, or of Venice. I regretted, at such moments, that I had abandoned the idea of diplomacy, and had condemned myself to a sedentary existence, in order not to be separated from a girl whom I should not see again and had already almost forgotten. We construct our house of life to suit another person, and when at length it is ready to receive her that person does not come; presently she is dead to us, and we live on, a prisoner within the walls which were intended only for her. If Venice seemed to my parents to be a long way off, and its climate treacherous, it was at least quite easy for me to gov without tiring myself, and settle down at Balbec. But to do that I should have had to leave Paris, to forego those visits thanks to which, infrequent as they were, I might sometimes hear Mme. Swann telling me about her daughter. Besides, I was beginning to find in them various pleasures in which Gilberte had no part.
但随着时间的推移，每次拒绝见她对我的困扰都减少了。当她对我不再那么亲切时，我痛苦的记忆不再强烈到足以摧毁我在想起佛罗伦萨或威尼斯时所发现的日益增长的快乐。在这种时刻，我后悔自己放弃了外交的想法，并谴责自己过着久坐的生活，以免与一个我再也见不到、几乎已经忘记的女孩分开。我们建造自己的生命之家来适应另一个人，当最终准备好接待她时，那个人却没有来；现在，她对我们来说已经死了，而我们还活着，成为专为她而设的围墙内的囚犯。如果威尼斯对我的父母来说似乎很遥远，而且气候也很危险，那么至少对我来说，在巴尔贝克定居并在不劳累的情况下管理是很容易的。但要做到这一点，我就必须离开巴黎，放弃那些访问，尽管这些访问并不频繁，但我有时可能会听到夫人的声音。斯旺向我讲述她女儿的事。此外，我开始在他们身上找到希尔贝特没有参与过的各种乐趣。

When spring drew round, and with it the cold weather, during an icy Lent and the hailstorms of Holy Week, as Mme. Swann began to find it cold in the house, I used often to see her entertaining her guests in her furs, her shivering hands and shoulders hidden beneath the gleaming white carpet of an immense rectangular muff and a cape, both of ermine, which she had not taken off on coming in from her drive, and which suggested the last patches of the snows of winter, more persistent than the rest, which neither the heat of the fire nor the advancing season had succeeded in melting. And the whole truth about these glacial but already flowering weeks was suggested to me in this drawing-room, which soon I should be entering no more, by other more intoxicating forms of whiteness, that for example of the guelder-roses clustering, at the summits of their tall bare stalks, like the rectilinear trees in pre-Raphaelite paintings, their balls of blossom, divided yet composite, white as annunciating angels and breathing a fragrance as of lemons. For the mistress of Tansonville knew that April, even an ice-bound April, was not barren of flowers, that winter, spring, summer are not held apart by barriers as hermetic as might be supposed by the town-dweller who, until the first hot day, imagines the world as containing nothing but houses that stand naked in the rain. That Mme. Swann was content with the consignments furnished by her Combray gardener, that she did not, by the intervention of her own ‘special’ florist, fill up the gaps left by an insufficiently powerful magic with subsidies borrowed from a precocious Mediterranean shore, I do not for a moment suggest, nor did it worry me at the time. It was enough to fill me with longing for country scenes that, overhanging the loose snowdrifts of the muff in which Mme. Swann kept her hands, the guelder-rose snow-balls (which served very possibly in the mind of my hostess no other purpose than to compose, on the advice of Bergotte, a ‘Symphony in White’ with her furniture and her garments) reminded me that what the Good Friday music in Parsifal symbolised was a natural miracle which one could see performed every year, if one had the sense to look for it, and, assisted by the acid and heady perfume of the other kinds of blossom, which, although their names were unknown to me, had brought me so often to a standstill to gaze at them on my walks round Combray, made Mme. Swann’s drawing-room as virginal, as candidly ‘in bloom,’ without the least vestige of greenery, as overladen with genuine scents of flowers as was the little lane by Tansonville.
当春天来临的时候，寒冷的天气也随之而来，在冰冷的四旬斋和圣周的冰雹期间，正如夫人。斯旺开始觉得屋子里很冷，我经常看到她穿着皮毛招待客人，她颤抖的双手和肩膀隐藏在闪闪发光的白色地毯下，上面有一个巨大的长方形手笼和一件斗篷，都是貂皮的，她有从她的车道回来后，她还没有脱下来，这表明冬天的最后几片雪比其他雪更持久，无论是火的热量还是即将到来的季节都没有成功地融化它们。关于这些冰冷但已经开花的几周的全部真相是在这个客厅里向我暗示的，很快我就不会再进入这个客厅了，其他更令人陶醉的白色形式，例如聚集在客厅的金玫瑰。它们高大的光秃秃的茎顶，就像拉斐尔前派绘画中的直线树木，它们的花球，分开但复合，白色，像天使报喜，呼吸着柠檬的香味。因为坦森维尔的女主人知道，四月，即使是冰天雪地的四月，也不是没有鲜花的，冬天、春天、夏天并不像镇上居民想象的那样被屏障隔开，直到第一天到来。炎热的一天，想象世界除了裸露在雨中的房屋之外什么都没有。那位女士。斯旺对她的贡布雷园丁提供的货物感到满意，她没有通过她自己的“特殊”花店的干预，用从早熟的地中海海岸借来的补贴来填补因魔法不够强大而留下的空白，我不认为有一瞬间的建议，当时我也不担心。 这足以让我充满对乡村景色的渴望，乡村景色悬在手筒松散的雪堆上，夫人的手放在里面。斯万保留了她的手，金玫瑰雪球（在我的女主人看来，这很可能没有其他目的，只是按照贝戈特的建议，用她的家具和衣服创作了一首“白色交响曲”）我认为帕西法尔的耶稣受难日音乐象征着一种自然奇迹，如果有人有意识去寻找它，并且在其他种类花朵的酸而令人陶醉的香水的帮助下，人们每年都可以看到它的上演，尽管我不知道他们的名字，但当我在贡布雷周围散步时，却常常让我停下来凝视他们，使夫人。斯旺的客厅是原始的，坦率地“盛开”，没有丝毫绿色植物的痕迹，就像坦森维尔的小巷一样充满了真正的花香。

But it was still more than I could endure that these memories should be recalled to me. There was a risk of their reviving what little remained of my love for Gilberte. Besides, albeit I no longer felt the least distress during these visits to Mme. Swann, I extended the intervals between them and endeavoured to see as little of her as possible. At most, since I continued not to go out of Paris, I allowed myself an occasional walk with her. Fine weather had come at last, and the sun was hot. As I knew that before luncheon Mme. Swann used to go out every day for an hour, and would stroll for a little in the Avenue du Bois, near the Etoile—a spot which, at that time, because of the people who used to collect there to gaze at the ‘swells’ whom they knew only by name, was known as the ‘Shabby-Genteel Club’—I persuaded my parents, on Sundays (for on weekdays I was busy all morning), to let me postpone my luncheon until long after theirs, until a quarter past one, and go for a walk before it. During May, that year, I never missed a Sunday, for Gilberte had gone to stay with friends in the country. I used to reach the Arc de Triomphe about noon. I kept watch at the entrance to the Avenue, never taking my eyes off the corner of the side-street along which Mme. Swann, who had only a few yards to walk, would come from her house. As by this time many of the people who had been strolling there were going home to luncheon, those who remained were few in number and, for the most part, fashionably dressed. Suddenly, on the gravelled path, unhurrying, cool, luxuriant, Mme. Swann appeared, displaying around her a toilet which was never twice the same, but which I remember as being typically mauve; then she hoisted and unfurled at the end of its long stalk, just at the moment when her radiance was most complete, the silken banner of a wide parasol of a shade that matched the showering petals of her gown. A whole troop of people escorted her; Swann himself, four or five fellows from the Club, who had been to call upon her that morning or whom she had met in the street: and their black or grey agglomeration, obedient to her every gesture, performing the almost mechanical movements of a lifeless setting in which Odette was framed, gave to this woman, in whose eyes alone was there any intensity, the air of looking out in front of her, from among all those men, as from a window behind which she had taken her stand, and made her emerge there, frail but fearless, in the nudity of her delicate colours, like the apparition of a creature of a different species, of an unknown race, and of almost martial strength, by virtue of which she seemed by herself a match for all her multiple escort. Smiling, rejoicing in the fine weather, in the sunshine which had not yet become trying, with the air of calm assurance of a creator who has accomplished his task and takes no thought for anything besides; certain that her clothes—even though the vulgar herd should fail to appreciate them—were the smartest anywhere to be seen, she wore them for herself and for her friends, naturally, without exaggerated attention to them but also without absolute detachment; not preventing the little bows of ribbon upon her bodice and skirt from floating buoyantly upon the air before her, like separate creatures of whose presence there she was not unconscious, but was indulgent enough to let them play if they chose, keeping their own rhythm, provided that they accompanied her where she led the way; and even upon her mauve parasol, which, as often as not, she had not yet ‘put up’ when she appeared on the scene, she let fall now and then, as though upon a bunch of Parma violets, a gaze happy and so kindly that, when it was fastened no longer upon her friends but on some inanimate object, her eyes still seemed to smile. She thus kept open, she made her garments occupy that interval of smartness, of which the men with whom she was on the most familiar terms respected both the existence and its necessity, not without shewing a certain deference, as of profane visitors to a shrine, an admission of their own ignorance, an interval over which they recognised that their friend had (as we recognise that a sick man has over the special precautions that he has to take, or a mother over her children’s education) a competent jurisdiction. No less than by the court which encircled her and seemed not to observe’ the passers-by, Mme. Swann by the lateness of her appearance there at once suggested those rooms in which she had spent so long, so leisurely a morning and to which she must presently return for luncheon; she seemed to indicate their proximity by the unhurrying ease of her progress, like the turn that one takes up and down one’s own garden; of those rooms one would have said that she was carrying about her still the cool, the indoor shade. But for that very reason the sight of her gave me only a stronger sensation of open air and warmth. All the more because, being assured in my own mind that, in accordance with the liturgy, with the ritual in which Mme. Swann was so profoundly versed, her clothes were connected with the time of year and of day by a bond both inevitable and unique, I felt that the flowers upon the stiff straw brim of her hat, the baby-ribbons upon her dress, had been even more naturally born of the month of May than the flowers in gardens and in woods; and to learn what latest change there was in weather or season I had not to raise my eyes higher than to her parasol, open and outstretched like another, a nearer sky, round, clement, mobile, blue. For these rites, if they were of sovereign importance, subjugated their glory (and, consequently, Mme. Swann her own) in condescending obedience to the day, the spring, the sun, none of which struck me as being sufficiently flattered that so elegant a woman had been graciously pleased not to ignore their existence, and had chosen on their account a gown of a brighter, of a thinner fabric, suggesting to me, by the opening of its collar and sleeves, the moist warmness of the throat and wrists that they exposed,—in a word, had taken for them all the pains that a great personage takes who, having gaily condescended to pay a visit to common folk in the country, whom everyone, even the most plebeian, knows, yet makes a point of donning, for the occasion, suitable attire. On her arrival I would greet Mme. Swann, she stop me and say (in English) ‘Good morning,’ and smile. We would walk a little way together. And I learned then that these canons according to which she dressed, it was for her own satisfaction that she obeyed them, as though yielding to a Superior Wisdom of which she herself was High Priestess: for if it should happen that, feeling too warm, she threw open or even took off altogether and gave me to carry the jacket which she had intended to keep buttoned up, I would discover in the blouse beneath it a thousand details of execution which had had every chance of remaining there unperceived, like those parts of an orchestral score to which the composer has devoted infinite labour albeit they may never reach the ears of the public: or in the sleeves of the jacket that lay folded across my arm I would see, I would drink in slowly, for my own pleasure or from affection for its wearer, some exquisite detail, a deliciously tinted strip, a lining of mauve satinette which, ordinarily concealed from every eye, was yet just as delicately fashioned as the outer parts, like those gothic carvings on a cathedral, hidden on the inside of a balustrade eighty feet from the ground, as perfect as are the has-reliefs over the main porch, and yet never seen by any living man until, happening to pass that way upon his travels, an artist obtains leave to climb up there among them, to stroll in the open air, sweeping the whole town with a comprehensive gaze, between the soaring towers.
但我仍然无法忍受这些记忆被回想起。他们有可能让我对希尔贝特仅存的一点点爱情重新燃起。此外，虽然在拜访夫人期间我不再感到一丝痛苦。斯旺，我拉长了他们之间的间隔，并尽量少见她。由于我仍然不出巴黎，我顶多允许自己偶尔和她一起散步。终于迎来了晴朗的天气，太阳火辣辣的。据我所知，午餐前夫人。斯万以前每天都会出去一小时，并会在星辰广场附近的杜波依斯大道上漫步一会儿——当时，由于人们常常聚集在那里凝视“海浪”，所以这个地方才成为了人们关注的焦点。他们只知道这个俱乐部的名字，被称为“破旧的上流社会俱乐部”——我在周日说服父母（因为在工作日我整个早上都很忙），让我把午餐推迟到他们的午餐之后很久，直到一点一刻，到它面前去散步。那年五月，我从来没有错过过一个星期天，因为吉尔贝特去乡下和朋友住在一起了。我曾经在中午左右到达凯旋门。我一直在大街的入口处注视着，眼睛始终没有离开过夫人所在的小街的拐角处。斯旺只有几码的步行路程，她会从她家过来。此时，逛街的人很多都回家吃午饭了，留下来的人不多，而且大多衣着时尚。突然，在碎石路上，夫人不紧不慢、凉爽而繁茂。 斯旺出现了，在她周围展示了一个厕所，它从来都不是一样的，但我记得它是典型的淡紫色；然后，就在她光芒最灿烂的时候，她在长柄的末端升起并展开了一把宽大阳伞的丝绸旗帜，其颜色与她礼服上飘落的花瓣相配。一大群人护送着她；斯万本人，俱乐部里的四五个人，那天早上他们来拜访过她，或者是她在街上遇到的人：他们黑色或灰色的聚集体，服从她的每一个手势，执行着几乎没有生命的机械动作。奥黛特所处的场景，给这个女人带来了一种从所有这些男人中望向她前方的气氛，就像从她站在后面的窗户里一样，只有她的眼睛里才有任何强度。使她出现在那里，虚弱但无所畏惧，在她精致的色彩的裸露中，就像一个不同物种、未知种族的生物的幻影，并且几乎具有军事力量，凭借这一点，她本身似乎是一个对手都是她的多重护送。 微笑着，在晴朗的天气里，在还没有变得刺眼的阳光下感到高兴，带着一种创造者完成任务而没有考虑任何事情的平静自信的神情；她确信她的衣服——尽管粗俗的大众应该不会欣赏它们——是所有地方最漂亮的，她为自己和她的朋友穿它们，自然地，没有过分关注它们，但也没有绝对超然；没有阻止她的紧身胸衣和裙子上的丝带小蝴蝶结在她面前的空气中漂浮，就像单独的生物一样，她并没有意识到它们的存在，但足够宽容，如果它们愿意，可以让它们玩耍，保持自己的节奏，只要他们陪着她去她带路的地方；甚至在她出现在现场时，她常常还没有“撑起”的淡紫色遮阳伞上，她时不时地垂下，仿佛落在一束帕尔马紫罗兰上，目光充满幸福和如此幸运的是，当它不再固定在她的朋友身上而是固定在某个无生命的物体上时，她的眼睛似乎仍然在微笑。因此，她保持开放，她让她的衣服占据了那个聪明的区间，与她最熟悉的男人尊重它的存在和必要性，而不是没有表现出一定的尊重，就像对神社的亵渎访客一样，承认他们自己的无知，在这段时间里他们认识到他们的朋友（正如我们认识到一个病人对他必须采取的特殊预防措施，或者一个母亲对她孩子的教育有一个合格的管辖权）。至少在法庭周围，她包围着她，似乎没有观察过路人，夫人。 斯万因为迟到而立刻想到了那些房间，她在其中度过了这么长时间、这么悠闲的一个早晨，而且她现在必须回到那里吃午饭。她似乎通过她从容不迫的步伐来表明他们的接近，就像一个人在自己的花园里来回走动一样。在那些房间里，人们会说她身上仍然带着凉爽的室内遮阳伞。但正因为如此，看到她只给我一种更强烈的露天和温暖的感觉。更重要的是，因为我心里确信，按照礼拜仪式，按照夫人的仪式。斯旺是如此精通，她的衣服与一年中的时间和一天中的时间通过一种不可避免的和独特的联系联系在一起，我觉得她帽子硬邦邦的草帽边上的花朵，她衣服上的婴儿丝带，都被五月的诞生甚至比花园和树林里的花朵还要自然；要了解天气或季节的最新变化，我不必把目光抬得比她的阳伞高，她的阳伞像另一把阳伞一样张开、伸展，天空更近，圆润、温和、流动、蓝色。因为这些仪式，如果它们具有至高无上的重要性，就会削弱它们的荣耀（因此，夫人。 斯旺（她自己的）居高临下地服从了白天、春天、太阳，我觉得这些都没有让我感到足够受宠若惊，以至于如此优雅的女人很高兴不忽视它们的存在，并为它们选择了一件长袍一种更亮、更薄的织物，通过它的领子和袖子的开口，向我暗示着它们暴露的喉咙和手腕的潮湿温暖——总之，为它们承担了一个伟大人物所承受的所有痛苦他高高兴兴地屈尊去拜访这个国家的普通民众，每个人，甚至是最平民的人都认识他们，但他还是会在这个场合穿上合适的衣服。当她到来时，我会向女士打招呼。斯旺，她拦住我，用英语说“早上好”，然后微笑着。我们会一起走一段路。 然后我了解到，她穿着的这些准则，是为了她自己的满足，她遵守了它们，仿佛屈服于她自己是高级女祭司的高级智慧：因为如果发生这种情况，感觉太温暖，她打开甚至完全脱掉，让我拿着她本来打算扣上扣子的夹克，我会在它下面的衬衫中发现一千个执行细节，这些细节很有可能留在那儿而不被察觉，就像那些部分一样作曲家付出了无限努力的管弦乐乐谱，尽管它们可能永远不会传到公众的耳中：或者在叠在我手臂上的夹克袖子里，我会看到，我会慢慢地喝下去，为了我自己的乐趣或者出于对佩戴者的喜爱，一些精致的细节，一条色彩鲜艳的条带，一条淡紫色缎子的衬里，通常隐藏在每个人的视线中，但与外部部件一样精致，就像大教堂上的哥特式雕刻一样，隐藏在距离地面八十英尺的栏杆内部，与主门廊上的浮雕一样完美，但从未被任何活着的人看到过，直到一位艺术家在旅行中碰巧经过那条路，并获准爬上去在他们中间，在高耸的塔楼之间，在露天漫步，以全面的目光扫视整个城镇。

What enhanced this impression that Mme. Swann was walking in the Avenue as though along the paths of her own garden, was—for people ignorant of her habit of ‘taking exercise’—that she had come there on foot, without any carriage following, she whom, once May had begun, they were accustomed to see, behind the most brilliant ‘turn-out,’ the smartest liveries in Paris, gently and majestically seated, like a goddess, in the balmy air of an immense victoria on eight springs. On foot Mme. Swann had the appearance—especially as her pace began to slacken in the heat of the sun—of having yielded to curiosity, of committing an ‘exclusive’ breach of all the rules of her code, like those Crowned Heads who, without consulting anyone, accompanied by the slightly scandalised admiration of a suite which dares not venture any criticism, step out of their boxes during a gala performance and visit the lobby of the theatre, mingling for a moment or two with the rest of the audience. So between Mme. Swann and themselves the crowd felt that there existed those barriers of a certain kind of opulence which seem to them the most insurmountable that there are. The Faubourg Saint-Germain may have its barriers also, but these are less ‘telling’ to the eyes and imagination of the ‘shabby-genteel.’ These latter, when in the presence of a real personage, more simple, more easily mistaken for the wife of a small professional or business man, less remote from the people, will not feel the same sense of their own inequality, almost of their unworthiness, as dismays them when they encounter Mme. Swann. Of course women of that sort are not themselves dazzled, as the crowd are, by the brilliance of their apparel, they have ceased to pay any attention to it, but only because they have grown used to it, that is to say have come to look upon it more and more as natural and necessary, to judge their fellow creatures according as they are more or less initiated into these luxurious ways: so that (the grandeur which they allow themselves to display or discover in others being wholly material, easily verified, slowly acquired, the lack of it hard to compensate) if such women place a passer-by in the lowest rank of society, it is by the same instinctive process that has made them appear to him as in the highest, that is to say instinctively, at first sight, and without possibility of appeal. Perhaps that special class of society which included in those days women like Lady Israels, who mixed with the women of the aristocracy, and Mme. Swann, who was to get to know them later on, that intermediate class, inferior to the Faubourg Saint-Germain, since it ‘ran after’ the denizens of that quarter, but superior to everything that was not of the Faubourg Saint-Germain, possessing this peculiarity that, while already detached from the world of the merely rich, it was riches still that it represented, but riches that had been canalised, serving a purpose, swayed by an idea that was artistic, malleable gold, chased with a poetic design, taught to smile; perhaps that class—in the same form, at least, and with the same charm—exists no longer. In any event, the women who were its members would not satisfy to-day what was the primary condition on which they reigned, since with advancing age they have lost—almost all of them—their beauty. Whereas it was (just as much as from the pinnacle of her noble fortune) from the glorious zenith of her ripe and still so fragrant summer that Mme. Swann, majestic, smiling, kind, as she advanced along the Avenue du Bois, saw like Hypatia, beneath the slow tread of her feet, worlds revolving. Various young men as they passed looked at her anxiously, not knowing whether their vague acquaintance with her (especially since, having been introduced only once, at the most, to Swann, they were afraid that he might not remember them) was sufficient excuse for their venturing to take off their hats. And they trembled to think of the consequences as they made up their minds, asking themselves whether the gesture, so bold, so sacrilegious a tempting of providence, would not let loose the catastrophic forces of nature or bring down, upon them the vengeance of a jealous god. It provoked only, like the winding of a piece of clockwork, a series of gesticulations from little, responsive bowing figures, who were none other than Odette’s escort, beginning with Swann himself, who raised his tall hat lined in green leather with an exquisite courtesy, which he had acquired in the Faubourg Saint-Germain, but to which was no longer wedded the indifference that he would at one time have shewn. Its place was now taken (as though he had been to some extent permeated by Odette’s prejudices) at once by irritation at having to acknowledge the salute of a person who was none too well dressed and by satisfaction at his wife’s knowing so many people, a mixed sensation to which he gave expression by saying to the smart friends who walked by his side: ‘Whatl another! Upon my word, I can’t imagine where my wife picks all these fellows up!’ Meanwhile, having greeted with a slight movement of her head the terrified youth, who had already passed out of sight though his heart was still beating furiously, Mme. Swann turned to me: ‘Then it’s all over?’ she put it to me, ‘You aren’t ever coming to see Gilberte again? I’m glad you make an exception of me, and are not going to ‘drop’ me straight away. I like seeing you, but I used to like also the influence you had over my daughter. I’m sure she’s very sorry about it, too. However, I mustn’t bully you, or you’ll make up your mind at once that you never want to set eyes on me again.’ ‘Odette, Sagan’s trying to speak to you!’ Swann called his wife’s attention. And there, indeed, was the Prince, as in some transformation scene at the close of a play, or in a circus, or an old painting, wheeling his horse round so as to face her, in a magnificent heroic pose, and doffing his hat with a sweeping theatrical and, so to speak, allegorical flourish in which he displayed all the chivalrous courtesy of a great noble bowing in token of his respect for Woman, were she incarnate in a woman whom it was impossible for his mother or his sister to know. And at every moment, recognised in the depths of the liquid transparency and of the luminous glaze of the shadow which her parasol cast over her, Mme. Swann was receiving the salutations of the last belated horsemen, who passed as though in a cinematograph taken as they galloped in the blinding glare of the Avenue, men from the clubs, the names of whom, which meant only celebrities to the public, Antoine de Castellane, Adalbert de Montmorency and the rest—were for Mme. Swann the familiar names of friends. And as the average span of life, the relative longevity of our memories of poetical sensations is much greater than that of our memories of what the heart has suffered, long after the sorrows that I once felt on Gilberte’s account have faded and vanished, there has survived them the pleasure that I still derive—whenever I close my eyes and read, as it were upon the face of a sundial, the minutes that are recorded between a quarter past twelve and one o’clock in the month of May—from seeing myself once again strolling and talking thus with Mme. Swann beneath her parasol, as though in the coloured shade of a wistaria bower.
是什么增强了这种印象？斯旺走在大街上，仿佛沿着她自己花园的小路走着，对于那些不知道她“锻炼身体”习惯的人来说，她是步行来到那里的，没有任何马车跟随，五月一开始，她就开始了她的运动。他们习惯于在最辉煌的“盛典”背后看到巴黎最漂亮的制服，像女神一样温柔而庄严地坐在八个泉水的巨大维多利亚的温和空气中。步行女士。斯万的表现——尤其是当她的步伐在烈日下开始放慢时——屈服于好奇心，“排他性地”违反了她的所有规则，就像那些皇冠上的首脑一样，他们在没有咨询任何人的情况下，伴随着对不敢冒任何批评的套房的略显愤慨的钦佩，在一场盛大的演出期间走出他们的包厢，参观剧院的大厅，与其他观众混在一起一两分钟。所以女士之间。斯万和他们自己以及人群都感到存在着某种富裕的障碍，在他们看来，这是最难以逾越的。圣日耳曼郊区可能也有它的障碍，但这些障碍对于“破旧的上流人士”的眼睛和想象力来说不太“有说服力”。后者，当在真实人物面前时，更简单，更容易被误认为是一个小专业人士或商人的妻子，与人民的距离不太远，不会像遇到夫人时那样感到沮丧，几乎不会感到自己不配。斯旺。 当然，这类女人本身并不像大众那样，被她们服饰的光鲜亮丽所迷惑，不再去注意，但这只是因为她们已经习惯了，也就是说，已经习惯了。越来越多地将其视为自然和必要的，根据他们或多或少开始进入这些奢侈的方式来判断他们的同胞：以便（他们允许自己在他人身上展示或发现的宏伟完全是物质的，很容易验证（缓慢获得，缺乏难以弥补）如果这些女人将路人置于社会的最低阶层，那么正是通过同样的本能过程，使她们在他看来就像处于最高阶层，也就是说本能地，第一眼看到，并且没有上诉的可能性。也许那个特殊的社会阶层包括当时的女性，比如以色列夫人，她们与贵族女性混在一起，还有夫人。斯万后来才认识他们，这个中间阶级，低于圣日耳曼郊区，因为它“追逐”该地区的居民，但优于圣日耳曼郊区以外的一切，它具有这样的特点，即虽然已经脱离了纯粹富人的世界，但它所代表的仍然是财富，但财富是被运河化的，服务于一个目的，被一种艺术的、可塑的黄金的想法所左右，用一种诗意的追逐。设计，教会微笑；也许那个阶级——至少以同样的形式，同样的魅力——已经不复存在了。无论如何，今天的女性成员将无法满足她们统治的首要条件，因为随着年龄的增长，她们——几乎所有人——都失去了美丽。 然而，那是（正如她高贵财富的顶峰一样）来自她成熟且仍然芬芳的夏季的辉煌顶峰，夫人。斯旺，威严，微笑，善良，当她沿着杜布瓦大道前进时，她像希帕夏一样，在她缓慢的脚步下看到了旋转的世界。路过的几个年轻人焦急地看着她，不知道他们对她的模糊认识（特别是因为他们最多只被介绍给斯万一次，他们担心他可能不记得他们）是否足以成为他们的理由他们冒险摘下帽子。当他们做出决定时，他们颤抖着想到后果，问自己，这种如此大胆、如此亵渎的姿态，是否会释放自然的灾难性力量，或给他们带来报复嫉妒的上帝。它只引起了一些反应灵敏的鞠躬小人物的一系列手势，就像发条一样，这些人正是奥黛特的护送者，首先是斯万本人，他以一种精致的礼貌举起了绿色皮革衬里的高帽子。他在圣日耳曼郊区获得了它，但它不再与他曾经表现出的冷漠结合在一起。现在，它的位置立刻被取代了（就好像他在某种程度上受到了奥黛特的偏见的影响），因为不得不接受一个衣着不太考究的人的敬意而感到恼火，同时又因为他的妻子认识这么多人而感到满意，他对走在他身边的聪明朋友们说：“又是什么呢！”老实说，我无法想象我妻子是在哪里认识到这些家伙的！” 与此同时，她的头轻轻一动，迎接了那个惊恐的年轻人，尽管他的心脏仍在剧烈跳动，但他已经消失在视线之外了，夫人。斯旺转向我：“那么一切都结束了？”她问我，“你不会再来看吉尔贝特了吗？”我很高兴你对我破例，并且不会立即“抛弃”我。我喜欢见到你，但我过去也喜欢你对我女儿的影响。我相信她也对此感到非常抱歉。不过，我不能欺负你，否则你会立刻下定决心，再也不想看到我了。” “奥黛特，萨根想跟你说话！”斯万引起妻子的注意。确实，王子就在那儿，就像戏剧、马戏团或一幅老画结束时的某个变形场景一样，他调转马匹面对她，摆出一种宏伟的英雄姿势，脱下他的马甲。帽子上带有一种戏剧性的、可以说是寓言式的华丽风格，他展示了伟大贵族鞠躬的所有骑士礼貌，以表示他对女人的尊重，如果她化身为一个他母亲或妹妹不可能的女人知道。每时每刻，她都能在液体透明的深处和阳伞投在她身上的光亮的阴影中认出她。斯万正在接受最后一批迟来的骑手的致敬，他们就像在电影胶片中一样，在大道耀眼的眩光中驰骋，这些人来自俱乐部，他们的名字对公众来说只意味着名人，安托万·德卡斯特拉纳、阿达尔伯特·德·蒙莫朗西和其他人——都属于夫人。 Swann 朋友们熟悉的名字。 就平均寿命而言，我们对诗意感觉的记忆的相对寿命比我们对心灵遭受的痛苦的记忆要长得多，在我曾经因希尔贝特的叙述而感到的悲伤消退很久之后，在他们去世后，我仍然感到高兴——每当我闭上眼睛，阅读日晷表面上记录的五月十二点一刻到一点之间的分钟——从看到我自己又再次与夫人漫步交谈。斯旺在阳伞下，仿佛置身于紫藤凉亭的彩色阴影中。

PLACE-NAMES: THE PLACE
地名：地点

I had arrived at a state almost of complete indifference to Gilberte when, two years later, I went with my grandmother to Balbec. When I succumbed to the attraction of a strange face, when it was with the help of some other girl that I hoped to discover gothic cathedrals, the palaces and gardens of Italy, I said to myself sadly that this love of ours, in so far as it is love for one particular creature, is not perhaps a very real thing, since if the association of pleasant or unpleasant trains of thought can attach it for a time to a woman so as to make us believe that it has been inspired by her, in a necessary sequence of effect to cause, yet when we detach ourselves, deliberately or unconsciously, from those associations, this love, as though it were indeed a spontaneous thing and sprang from ourselves alone, will revive in order to bestow itself on another woman. At the time, however, of my departure for Balbec, and during the earlier part of my stay there, my indifference was still only intermittent. Often, our life being so careless of chronology, interpolating so many anachronisms in the sequence of our days, I lived still among those—far older days than yesterday or last week—in which I loved Gilberte. And at once not seeing her became as exquisite a torture to me as it had been then. The self that had loved her, which another self had already almost entirely supplanted, rose again in me, stimulated far more often by a trivial than by an important event. For instance, if I may anticipate for a moment my arrival in Normandy, I heard some one who passed me on the sea-front at Balbec refer to the ‘Secretary to the Ministry of Posts and his family.’ Now, seeing that as yet I knew nothing of the influence which that family was to exercise over my life, this remark ought to have passed unheeded; instead, it gave me at once an acute twinge, which a self that had for the most part long since been outgrown in me felt at being parted from Gilberte. Because I had never given another thought to a conversation which Gilberte had had with her father in my hearing, in which allusion was made to the Secretary to the Ministry of Posts and to his family. Now our love memories present no exception to the general rules of memory, which in turn are governed by the still more general rules of Habit. And as Habit weakens every impression, what a person recalls to us most vividly is precisely what we had forgotten, because it was of no importance, and had therefore left in full possession of its strength. That is why the better part of our memory exists outside ourselves, in a blatter of rain, in the smell of an unaired room or of the first crackling brushwood fire in a cold grate: wherever, in short, we happen upon what our mind, having no use for it, had rejected, the last treasure that the past has in store, the richest, that which when all our flow of tears seems to have dried at the source can make us weep again. Outside ourselves, did I say; rather within ourselves, but hidden from our eyes in an oblivion more or less prolonged. It is thanks to this oblivion alone that we can from time to time recover the creature that we were, range ourselves face to face with past events as that creature had to face them, suffer afresh because we are no longer ourselves but he, and because he loved what leaves us now indifferent. In the broad daylight of our ordinary memory the images of the past turn gradually pale and fade out of sight, nothing remains of them, we shall never find them again. Or rather we should never find them again had not a few words (such as this ‘Secretary to the Ministry of Posts’) been carefully locked away in oblivion, just as an author deposits in the National Library a copy of a book which might otherwise become unobtainable.
两年后，当我和祖母一起去巴尔贝克时，我对吉尔贝特几乎完全漠不关心。当我屈服于一张陌生面孔的吸引力时，当我希望在其他女孩的帮助下发现意大利的哥特式大教堂、宫殿和花园时，我悲伤地对自己说，我们的这份爱，到目前为止因为它是对某个特定生物的爱，也许不是一件非常真实的事情，因为如果愉快或不愉快的思绪的联想可以将它暂时附加到一个女人身上，以便让我们相信它是受到她的启发，在必然的结果到原因的顺序中，然而，当我们有意或无意地从这些联系中分离出来时，这种爱，就好像它确实是一种自发的事物，仅从我们自己身上产生一样，将会复活，以便将自己赋予另一个人女士。然而，当我动身前往巴尔贝克时，以及我在那里逗留的前一段时间，我的冷漠仍然只是间歇性的。通常，我们的生活如此粗心，在我们的日子顺序中插入了如此多的不合时宜的内容，我仍然生活在那些比昨天或上周古老得多的日子里，在那里我爱吉尔贝特。见不到她对我来说就像当时一样是一种极大的折磨。曾经爱过她的那个自我，几乎已经被另一个自我完全取代，又在我心中再次升起，受到琐事的刺激远多于重要事件的刺激。例如，如果我可以预见一下我将抵达诺曼底，我听到有人在巴尔贝克海滨与我擦肩而过，提到“邮政部部长和他的家人”。’现在，我还不知道那个家庭会对我的生活产生怎样的影响，所以我应该不理睬这句话。相反，它立刻给我带来了一种剧烈的刺痛，这种感觉在我体内早已不再成熟，在与吉尔贝特分开时感到了这种刺痛。因为我从来没有再想过希尔贝特在我的听证会上与她父亲的一次谈话，其中提到了邮政部秘书和他的家人。现在，我们的爱情记忆也不例外于记忆的一般规则，而记忆的一般规则又受到更一般的习惯规则的支配。习惯会削弱一切印象，而一个人给我们最鲜明的回忆恰恰是我们已经忘记的东西，因为它不重要，因此保留了它的力量。这就是为什么我们的记忆的大部分存在于我们自身之外，在一场大雨中，在一个不通风的房间的气味中，或者在寒冷的炉栅中第一堆噼啪作响的灌木丛火中：简而言之，无论我们在哪里发生我们的想法，由于没有用处，所以拒绝了过去所储存的最后的宝藏，最丰富的宝藏，当我们所有的眼泪似乎都在源头干涸时，它可以让我们再次哭泣。我说过，在我们之外；而是在我们自己内部，但或多或​​少地被遗忘在我们的眼睛之外。正是由于这种遗忘，我们才能不时地找回我们曾经的生物，让自己面对过去的事件，就像那个生物必须面对的那样，重新受苦，因为我们不再是我们自己，而是他，因为我们不再是我们自己，而是他，因为他热爱那些让我们现在变得冷漠的事物。 在我们平常记忆的光天化日之下，过去的形象逐渐变得苍白，消失在我们的视线中，什么也没有留下，我们再也找不到它们了。或者更确切地说，如果没有几个词（例如这个“邮政部秘书”）被小心地锁在遗忘中，我们就永远不会再找到它们，就像一个作者将一本书的副本存放在国家图书馆，否则它可能会被遗忘。变得不可获得。

But this suffering and this recrudescence of my love for Gilberte lasted no longer than such things last in a dream, and this time, on the contrary, because at Balbec the old Habit was no longer there to keep them alive. And if these two effects of Habit appear to be incompatible, that is because Habit is bound by a diversity of laws. In Paris I had grown more and more indifferent to Gilberte, thanks to Habit. The change of habit, that is to say the temporary cessation of Habit, completed Habit’s task when I started for Balbec. It weakens, but it stabilises; it leads to disintegration but it makes the scattered elements last indefinitely. Day after day, for years past, I had begun by modelling my state of mind, more or less effectively, upon that of the day before. At Balbec, a strange bed, to the side of which a tray was brought in the morning that differed from my Paris breakfast tray, could not, obviously, sustain the fancies upon which my love for Gilberte had fed: there are cases (though not, I admit, commonly) in which, one’s days being paralysed by a sedentary life, the best way to save time is to change one’s place of residence. My journey to Balbec was like the first outing of a convalescent who needed only that to convince him that he was cured.
但这种痛苦和我对吉尔贝特的爱的复苏并没有比梦中的这种事情持续的时间更长，而这一次，恰恰相反，因为在巴尔贝克，旧习惯不再能让他们活下去。如果习惯的这两种效果看起来不相容，那是因为习惯受到多种法则的约束。在巴黎，由于习惯的缘故，我对希尔贝特变得越来越冷漠。习惯的改变，也就是习惯的暂时停止，完成了我出发前往巴尔贝克时习惯的任务。它会减弱，但会稳定；它会导致解体，但却使分散的元素无限期地持续下去。日复一日，多年来，我开始或多或少有效地根据前一天的心态来塑造自己的心态。在巴尔贝克，一张奇怪的床，早上放在床边的托盘与我在巴黎的早餐托盘不同，显然无法维持我对希尔贝特的爱所滋养的幻想：有一些情况（尽管不是） ，我承认，通常），其中，久坐的生活使人的日子变得瘫痪，节省时间的最好方法就是改变居住地。我去巴尔贝克的旅程就像一个康复者的第一次外出，他只需要这样就可以让他相信自己已经痊愈了。

The journey was one that would now be made, probably, in a motorcar, which would be supposed to render it more interesting. We shall see too that, accomplished in such a way, it would even be in a sense more genuine, since one would be following more nearly, in a closer intimacy, the various contours by which the surface of the earth is wrinkled. But after all the special attraction of the journey lies not in our being able to alight at places on the way and to stop altogether as soon as we grow tired, but in its making the difference between departure and arrival not as imperceptible but as intense as possible, so that we are conscious of it in its totality, intact, as it existed in our mind when imagination bore us from the place in which we were living right to the very heart of a place we longed to see, in a single sweep which seemed miraculous to us not so much because it covered a certain distance as because it united two distinct individualities of the world, took us from one name to another name; and this difference is accentuated (more than in a form of locomotion in which, since one can stop and alight where one chooses, there can scarcely be said to be any point of arrival) by the mysterious operation that is performed in those peculiar places, railway stations, which do not constitute, so to speak, a part of the surrounding town but contain the essence of its personality just as upon their sign-boards they bear its painted name.
这次旅行现在很可能是乘坐汽车进行的，这应该会让它变得更有趣。我们还将看到，以这种方式实现，它在某种意义上甚至会更加真实，因为人们会更接近、更亲密地追踪地球表面皱纹的各种轮廓。但归根结底，旅程的特别魅力不在于我们能够在途中的某个地方下车，累了就停下来，而在于它让出发和到达之间的差异不再是难以察觉的，而是像我们一样强烈。可能的，这样我们就可以完整地意识到它，就像它存在于我们的脑海中一样，当想象将我们从我们居住的地方带到我们渴望看到的地方的中心时，一次扫过对我们来说，这似乎是奇迹，与其说是因为它跨越了一定的距离，不如说是因为它将世界上两个截然不同的个体结合在一起，把我们从一个名字带到了另一个名字；而且这种差异通过在那些特殊地方进行的神秘操作而被强调（比一种运动形式更突出，在运动形式中，因为人们可以在自己选择的地方停下来并下车，所以几乎不能说有任何到达点），火车站，可以说，并不构成周围城镇的一部分，但包含着其个性的精髓，就像它们的招牌上印有它的名字一样。

But in this respect as in every other, our age is infected with a mania for shewing things only in the environment that properly belongs to them, thereby suppressing the essential thing, the act of the mind which isolated them from that environment. A picture is nowadays ‘presented’ in the midst of furniture, ornaments, hangings of the same period, a secondhand scheme of decoration in the composition of which in the houses of to-day excels that same hostess who but yesterday was so crassly ignorant, but now spends her time poring over records and in libraries; and among these the masterpiece at which we glance up from the table while we dine does not give us that exhilarating delight which we can expect from it only in a public gallery, which symbolises far better by its bareness, by the absence of all irritating detail, those innermost spaces into which the artist withdrew to create it.
但在这方面和其他方面一样，我们的时代感染了一种狂热，只在适当属于它们的环境中展示事物，从而压制了本质的事物，即将它们与环境隔离的心灵行为。如今，一幅画被“呈现”在同一时期的家具、装饰品、挂饰中，这是一种二手的装饰方案，其构图在当今的房屋中胜过那位昨天还如此粗鲁无知的女主人，但现在她把时间花在研究记录和图书馆上；在这些杰作中，我们在用餐时从餐桌上抬起头来欣赏的杰作并没有给我们那种只有在公共画廊才能期待的令人兴奋的喜悦，它的裸露和没有所有恼人的细节象征着更好的东西，那些艺术家退到其中进行创作的最内在的空间。

Unhappily those marvellous places which are railway stations, from which one sets out for a remote destination, are tragic places also, for if in them the miracle is accomplished whereby scenes which hitherto have had no existence save in our minds are to become the scenes among which we shall be living, for that very reason we must, as we emerge from the waiting-room, abandon any thought of finding ourself once again within the familiar walls which, but a moment ago, were still enclosing us. We must lay aside all hope of going home to sleep in our own bed, once we have made up our mind to penetrate into the pestiferous cavern through which we may have access to the mystery, into one of those vast, glass-roofed sheds, like that of Saint-Lazare into which I must go to find the train for Balbec, and which extended over the rent bowels of the city one of those bleak and boundless skies, heavy with an accumulation of dramatic menaces, like certain skies painted with an almost Parisian modernity by Mantegna or Veronese, beneath which could be accomplished only some solemn and tremendous act, such as a departure by train or the Elevation of the Cross.
不幸的是，那些令人惊奇的地方，如火车站，人们从那里出发前往一个遥远的目的地，也是悲剧性的地方，因为如果在这些地方奇迹得以实现，迄今为止除了我们脑海中不存在的场景将成为我们周围的场景。我们将生活在这样的环境中，正因为如此，当我们从候诊室出来时，我们必须放弃任何再次发现自己处于熟悉的墙壁之中的想法，而就在刚才，这些墙壁还包围着我们。一旦我们下定决心要进入那个充满瘟疫的洞穴，通过它我们可能会进入那些巨大的玻璃屋顶的棚屋之一，我们就必须放弃回家睡在自己的床上的所有希望，就像圣拉扎尔的天空，我必须去那里寻找开往巴尔贝克的火车，它延伸到城市的裂开的腹地，一片荒凉而无边无际的天空，充满了戏剧性的威胁，就像某些天空涂上了一层阴影。曼特尼亚（Mantegna）或委罗内塞（Veronese）的几乎巴黎现代性，在其之下只能完成一些庄严而巨大的行为，例如乘火车出发或举起十字架。

So long as I had been content to look out from the warmth of my own bed in Paris at the Persian church of Balbec, shrouded in driving sleet, no sort of objection to this journey had been offered by my body. Its objections began only when it had gathered that it would have itself to take part in the journey, and that on the evening of my arrival I should be shewn to ‘my’ room which to my body would be unknown. Its revolt was all the more deep-rooted in that on the very eve of my departure I learned that my mother would not be coming with us, my father, who would be kept busy at the Ministry until it was time for him to start for Spain with M. de Norpois, having preferred to take a house in the neighbourhood of Paris. On the other hand, the spectacle of Balbec seemed to me none the less desirable because I must purchase it at the price of a discomfort which, on the contrary, I felt to indicate and to guarantee the reality of the impression which I was going there to seek, an impression the place of which no spectacle of professedly equal value, no ‘panorama’ which I might have gone to see without being thereby precluded from returning home to sleep in my own bed, could possibly have filled. It was not for the first time that I felt that those who love and those who find pleasure are not always the same. I believed myself to be longing fully as much for Balbec as the doctor who was treating me, when he said to me, surprised, on the morning of our departure, to see me look so unhappy, ‘I don’t mind telling you that if I could only manage a week to go down and get a blow by the sea, I shouldn’t wait to be asked twice. You’ll be having races, regattas; you don’t know what all!’ But I had already learned the lesson—long before I was taken to hear Berma—that, whatever it might be that I loved, it would never be attained save at the end of a long and heart-rending pursuit, in the course of which I should have first to sacrifice my own pleasure to that paramount good instead of seeking it there.
只要我满足于在巴黎巴尔贝克波斯教堂的温暖床上向外看，笼罩在大雨中，我的身体就没有对这次旅行提出任何反对。直到它得知自己必须参加这次旅程，并且在我到达的那天晚上，我应该被带到“我的”房间，而我的身体对此一无所知时，它才开始反对。它的反抗更加根深蒂固，因为在我离开的前夕，我得知我的母亲不会和我们一起去，我的父亲将在部里忙碌，直到他开始工作的时候。西班牙的德·诺普瓦先生更愿意在巴黎附近买一栋房子。另一方面，巴尔贝克的奇观对我来说似乎仍然令人向往，因为我必须以不舒服的价格购买它，相反，我觉得这表明并保证了我去那里的印象的真实性寻找一种印象，没有任何自称具有同等价值的奇观，也没有任何“全景”，我可以去看一看，但不会因此而无法回家睡在自己的床上。这不是我第一次感觉到，爱的人和寻找快乐的人并不总是一样的。我相信自己和治疗我的医生一样渴望巴尔贝克，在我们出发的那天早上，他惊讶地对我说，看到我看起来如此不高兴，“我不介意告诉你这一点”如果我只能抽出一周的时间去海边吹一吹，我就不应该等待被问两次。你会参加比赛、赛船会；你不知道这一切！但早在我被带去聆听贝尔玛之前，我就已经吸取了教训，那就是，无论我所爱的是什么，除非经过漫长而令人心碎的追求，在我应该首先牺牲自己的快乐来换取至高无上的利益，而不是在那里寻求它。

My grandmother, naturally enough, looked upon our exodus from a somewhat different point of view, and (for she was still as anxious as ever that the presents which were made me should take some artistic form) had planned, so that she might be offering me, of this journey, a ‘print’ that was, at least, in parts ‘old,’ that we should repeat, partly by rail and partly by road, the itinerary that Mme. de Sévigné followed when she went from Paris to ‘L’Orient’ by way of Chaulnes and ‘the Pont-Audemer.’ But my grandmother had been obliged to abandon this project, at the instance of my father who knew, whenever she organised any expedition with a view to extracting from it the utmost intellectual benefit that it was capable of yielding, what a tale there would be to tell of missed trains, lost luggage, sore throats and broken rules. She was free at least to rejoice in the thought that never, when the time came for us to sally forth to the beach, should we be exposed to the risk of being kept indoors by the sudden appearance of what her beloved Sévigné calls a ‘beast of a coachload,’ since we should know not a soul at Balbec, Legrandin having refrained from offering us a letter of introduction to his sister. (This abstention had not been so well appreciated by my aunts Céline and Flora, who, having known as a child that lady, of whom they had always spoken until then, to commemorate this early intimacy, as ‘Renée de Cambremer,’ and having had from her and still possessing a number of those little presents which continue to ornament a room or a conversation but to which the feeling between the parties no longer corresponds, imagined that they were avenging the insult offered to us by never uttering again, when they called upon Mme. Legrandin, the name of her daughter, confining themselves to a mutual congratulation, once they were safely out of the house: ‘I made no reference to you know whom!’ ‘I think that went home!’)
很自然，我的祖母从不同的角度看待我们的出走，并且（因为她仍然像以前一样担心为我制作的礼物应该采取某种艺术形式）已经计划好了，这样她就可以提供我的这段旅程，是一份“印刷品”，至少在某些方面是“旧的”，我们应该部分通过铁路、部分通过公路重复夫人的行程。德塞维涅紧随其后，从巴黎经乔内斯和“奥德梅尔桥”前往“东方”。但我的祖母在我父亲的要求下，不得不放弃这个计划，他知道，每当她组织任何活动时，她都会这样做。一次探险，目的是从中获取最大的智力收益，这将是一个关于错过火车、丢失行李、喉咙痛和违反规则的故事。她至少可以自由地欣喜地想到，当我们前往海滩的时候，我们永远不会因为突然出现的她心爱的塞维涅所说的“野兽”而面临被困在室内的风险。因为我们在巴尔贝克不认识任何人，所以勒格朗丹没有给我们写一封介绍信给他的妹妹。 （我的姨妈塞琳和弗洛拉对这种弃权并没有那么欣赏，她们小时候就认识这位女士，直到那时她们才一直谈论她，为了纪念这种早期的亲密关系，她把她称为“蕾妮·德·康布勒梅”，并且我们从她那里得到了一些小礼物，并且仍然保留着一些小礼物，这些小礼物继续装饰着一个房间或一场谈话，但双方之间的感情不再相符，想象着他们正在报复我们受到的侮辱，不再说话，当他们拜访了夫人。 勒格朗丹，她女儿的名字，当他们安全地走出家门时，他们只互相祝贺：“我没有提到你知道是谁！”“我想那回家了！”’)

And so we were simply to leave Paris by that one twenty-two train which I had too often beguiled myself by looking out in the railway timetable, where its itinerary never failed to give me the emotion, almost the illusion of starting by it, not to feel that I already knew it. As the delineation in our mind of the features of any form of happiness depends more on the nature of the longings that it inspires in us than on the accuracy of the information which we have about it, I felt that I knew this train in all its details, nor did I doubt that I should feel, sitting in one of its compartments, a special delight as the day began to cool, should be contemplating this or that view as the train approached one or another station; so much so that this train, which always brought to my mind’s eye the images of the same towns, which I bathed in the sunlight of those post-meridian hours through which it sped, seemed to me to be different from every other train; and I had ended—as we are apt to do with a person whom we have never seen but of whom we like to believe that we have won his friendship—by giving a distinct and unalterable cast of countenance to the traveller, artistic, golden-haired, who would thus have taken me with him upon his journey, and to whom I should bid farewell beneath the Cathedral of Saint-Lo, before he hastened to overtake the setting sun.
于是我们就乘那趟二十二点的火车离开巴黎，我常常通过查看铁路时刻表来欺骗自己，它的行程总是给我一种情感，几乎是从它出发的幻觉，而不是感觉我已经知道了。由于我们头脑中对任何形式的幸福的特征的描述更多地取决于它所激发的渴望的本质，而不是我们所掌握的信息的准确性，所以我觉得我对这列火车的所有方面都了如指掌。细节，我毫不怀疑，当天开始变凉时，坐在其中一个车厢里，当火车接近一个或另一个车站时，我应该沉思这个或那个景色；以至于这列火车总是让我想起那些城镇的景象，我沐浴在它飞驰而过的午后时光的阳光下，在我看来，这列火车似乎与其他火车不同。我最后——就像我们对待一个我们从未见过但我们愿意相信我们已经赢得了他的友谊的人一样——给了旅行者一个独特的、不可改变的面容，艺术的，金色的——他会带着我一起踏上旅程，在他赶上夕阳之前，我应该在圣洛大教堂下与他告别。

As my grandmother could not bring herself to do anything so ‘stupid’ as to go straight to Balbec, she was to break the journey half-way, staying the night with one of her friends, from whose house I was to proceed the same evening, so as not to be in the way there and also in order that I might arrive by daylight and see Balbec Church, which, we had learned, was at some distance from Balbec-Plage, so that I might not have a chance to visit it later on, when I had begun my course of baths. And perhaps it was less painful for me to feel that the desirable goal of my journey stood between me and that cruel first night on which I should have to enter a new habitation, and consent to dwell there. But I had had first to leave the old; my mother had arranged to ‘move in,’ that afternoon, at Saint-Cloud, and had made, or pretended to make, all the arrangements for going there directly after she had seen us off at the station, without needing to call again at our own house to which she was afraid that I might otherwise feel impelled at the last moment, instead of going to Balbec, to return with her. In fact, on the pretext of having so much to see to in the house which she had just taken and of being pressed for time, but in reality so as to spare me the cruel ordeal of a long-drawn parting, she had decided not to wait with us until that moment of the signal to start at which, concealed hitherto among ineffective comings and goings and preparations that lead to nothing definite, separation is made suddenly manifest, impossible to endure when it is no longer possibly to be avoided, concentrated in its entirety in one enormous instant of impotent and supreme lucidity.
由于我的祖母无法让自己做任何“愚蠢”的事情，以至于直接去巴尔贝克，她不得不中途中断旅程，在她的一位朋友那里过夜，我当天晚上就从他的家里出发，以免妨碍那里，也为了我可以在白天到达并参观巴尔贝克教堂，据我们所知，该教堂距离巴尔贝克海滩有一段距离，因此我可能没有机会参观后来，当我开始洗澡时。也许对我来说，感觉旅程的理想目标挡在我和那个残酷的第一个夜晚之间并不那么痛苦，在那个夜晚我必须进入一个新的住所，并同意住在那里。但我必须首先离开旧的；那天下午，我母亲已经安排在圣克劳德“搬进来”，她在车站送我们去之后，就已经做好了，或者假装做好了去那里的所有安排，不需要再打电话给我们。她担心我可能会在最后一刻觉得有必要和她一起返回，而不是去巴尔贝克。事实上，她借口说她刚搬来的房子里有太多事情要处理，而且时间紧迫，但实际上是为了让我免受长期离别的残酷折磨，她决定不去。和我们一起等待，直到信号开始的那一刻，迄今为止，隐藏在无效的来来去去和没有任何明确结果的准备之中，分离突然变得明显，当它不再可能避免时，分离是不可能忍受的，集中整个过程发生在一个无力而极度清醒的巨大瞬间。

For the first time I began to feel that it was possible that my mother might live without me, otherwise than for me, a separate life. She was going to stay with my father, whose existence it may have seemed to her that my feeble health, my nervous excitability complicated somewhat and saddened. This separation made me all the more wretched because I told myself that it probably marked for my mother an end of the successive disappointments which I had caused her, of which she had never said a word to me but which had made her realise the difficulty of our taking our holidays together; and perhaps also the first trial of a form of existence to which she was beginning, now, to resign herself for the future, as the years crept on for my father and herself, an existence in which I should see less of her, in which (a thing that not even in my nightmares had yet been revealed to me) she would already have become something of a stranger, a lady who might be seen going home by herself to a house in which I should not be, asking the porter whether there was not a letter for her from me.
我第一次开始感觉到，我的母亲可能会在没有我的情况下生活，而不是对我来说，一种独立的生活。她要和我父亲住在一起，在她看来，父亲的存在让我虚弱的健康状况和我紧张的兴奋性变得有些复杂和悲伤。这次分离使我更加痛苦，因为我告诉自己，这可能标志着我给母亲带来的一系列失望的结束，对此她从未对我说过一句话，但这让她意识到了困难。我们一起度假；也许也是对一种存在形式的第一次考验，现在，随着岁月的流逝，我父亲和她自己，她开始放弃自己的未来，在这种存在中，我应该更少见到她，在这种存在中， （这一点即使在我的噩梦中也没有向我透露过）她可能已经变成了一个陌生人，一个可能会被看到独自回家到我不应该在的房子里的女士，问门房是否我没有给她写信。

I could scarcely answer the man in the station who offered to take my bag. My mother, to comfort me, tried the methods which seemed to her most efficacious. Thinking it to be useless to appear not to notice my unhappiness, she gently teased me about it:
我几乎无法回答车站里主动提出帮我拿包的人。为了安慰我，妈妈尝试了她认为最有效的方法。她认为假装没有注意到我的不高兴是没有用的，于是轻轻地取笑我：

‘Well, and what would Balbec church say if it knew that people pulled long faces like that when they were going to see it? Surely this is not the enraptured tourist Ruskin speaks of. Besides, I shall know if you rise to the occasion, even when we are miles apart I shall still be with my little man. You shall have a letter to-morrow from Mamma.’
“好吧，如果巴尔贝克教堂知道人们去看它时会拉长脸，那它会怎么说呢？这肯定不是拉斯金所说的欣喜若狂的游客。此外，我会知道你是否能应付自如，即使我们相距数英里，我仍然会和我的小男人在一起。明天你就会收到妈妈的一封信。

‘My dear,’ said my grandmother, ‘I picture you like Mme. de Sévigné, your eyes glued to the map, and never losing sight of us for an instant.’
“亲爱的，”我的祖母说，“我想象你就像我的夫人。”德塞维涅，你的眼睛紧紧盯着地图，一刻也没有离开过我们。”

Then Mamma sought to distract my mind, asked me what I thought of having for dinner, drew my attention to Françoise, complimented her on a hat and cloak which she did not recognise, in spite of their having horrified her long ago when she first saw them, new, upon my great-aunt, one with an immense bird towering over it, the other decorated with a hideous pattern and jet beads. But the cloak having grown too shabby to wear, Françoise had had it turned, exposing an ‘inside’ of plain cloth and quite a good colour. As for the bird, it had long since come to grief and been thrown away. And just as it is disturbing, sometimes, to find the effects which the most conscious artists attain only by an effort occurring in a folk-song, on the wall of some peasant’s cottage where above the door, at the precisely right spot in the composition, blooms a white or yellow rose—so the velvet band, the loop of ribbon which would have delighted one in a portrait by Chardin or Whistler, Françoise had set with a simple but unerring taste upon the hat, which was now charming.
然后妈妈试图分散我的注意力，问我晚餐想吃什么，让我注意弗朗索瓦丝，称赞她戴了帽子和斗篷，她不认识这些，尽管很久以前当她第一次看到它们时，她感到害怕它们是新的，戴在我姨婆身上，其中一只上面有一只巨大的鸟，另一只上面装饰着可怕的图案和黑玉珠子。但那件斗篷已经破旧得不能再穿了，弗朗索瓦丝把它翻了过来，露出了朴素布料的“里面”，而且颜色相当好。至于那只鸟，它早已悲痛欲绝，被扔掉了。有时，令人不安的是，发现最有意识的艺术家仅通过民歌中的努力才能达到的效果，在一些农民小屋的墙上，门上方，在构图中恰好正确的位置，绽放着一朵白色或黄色的玫瑰——因此，弗朗索瓦丝将天鹅绒带子、在夏尔丹或惠斯勒的肖像画中令人愉悦的丝带环，以一种简单但准确无误的品味戴在帽子上，现在帽子变得迷人。

To take a parallel from an earlier age, the modesty and integrity which often gave an air of nobility to the face of our old servant having spread also to the garments which, as a woman reserved but not humbled, who knew how to hold her own and to keep her place, she had put on for the journey so as to be fit to be seen in our company without at the same time seeming or wishing to make herself conspicuous,—Françoise in the cherry-coloured cloth, now faded, of her cloak, and the discreet nap of her fur collar, brought to mind one of those miniatures of Anne of Brittany painted in Books of Hours by an old master, in which everything is so exactly in the right place, the sense of the whole is so evenly distributed throughout the parts that the rich and obsolete singularity of the costume expresses the same pious gravity as the eyes, lips and hands.
拿早年的例子来说，我们的老仆人脸上常常呈现出一种高贵的谦逊和正直的气质，这种气质也蔓延到了衣服上，作为一个女人，她矜持但不谦虚，知道如何保持自己的气质。为了保住自己的位置，她在旅途中穿上了这样的衣服，以便在我们的陪伴下被人看到，同时又不显得或希望让自己引人注目——弗朗索瓦丝穿着樱桃色的衣服，现在已经褪色了，她的斗篷，还有毛领的精致绒毛，让人想起一位老大师在《时光之书》中画的布列塔尼安妮的微缩模型，其中一切都在正确的位置，整体的感觉是如此均匀地分布在各个部分，以至于服装的丰富而过时的独特性表达了与眼睛、嘴唇和手同样虔诚的重力。

Of thought, in relation to Françoise, one could hardly speak. She knew nothing, in that absolute sense in which to know nothing means to understand nothing, save the rare truths to which the heart is capable of directly attaining. The vast world of ideas existed not for her. But when one studied the clearness of her gaze, the lines of nose and lips, all those signs lacking from so many people of culture in whom they would else have signified a supreme distinction, the noble detachment of a chosen spirit, one was disquieted, as one is by the frank, intelligent eyes of a dog, to which, nevertheless, one knows that all our human concepts must be alien, and was led to ask oneself whether there might not be, among those other humble brethren, our peasant countrymen, creatures who were, like the great ones of the earth, of simple mind, or rather, doomed by a harsh fate to live among the simple-minded, deprived of heavenly light, were yet more naturally, more instinctively akin to the chosen spirits than most educated people, were, so to speak, all members, though scattered, straying, robbed of their heritage of reason, of the celestial family, kinsfolk, that have been lost in infancy, of the loftiest minds to whom—as is apparent from the unmistakable light in their eyes, although they can concentrate that light on nothing—there has been lacking, to endow them with talent, knowledge only.
说到弗朗索瓦丝，人们几乎说不出话来。她一无所知，从绝对意义上说，一无所知就等于一无所知，除了内心能够直接获得的罕见真理。广阔的思想世界不适合她。但当人们研究她清澈的目光、鼻子和嘴唇的线条，所有这些迹象是许多有文化的人所缺乏的，否则这些迹象在他们身上象征着一种至高无上的区别，一种被选中的精神的高贵超然，人们感到不安，就像人们通过一只狗的坦率、聪明的眼睛一样，尽管如此，人们知道我们所有的人类概念一定是陌生的，并被引导问自己，在那些卑微的兄弟中是否可能没有我们的农民同胞那些像地球上的伟人一样头脑简单的生物，或者更确切地说，注定要生活在头脑简单的人中间，被剥夺了天堂之光，但他们更自然，更本能地类似于被选中的灵魂可以说，与大多数受过教育的人相比，他们是天族的所有成员，尽管分散、迷失，被剥夺了理性的遗产，但在婴儿期就失去了亲人，他们是最崇高思想的成员——这一点是显而易见的他们眼中闪烁着明确无误的光芒，尽管他们可以将光芒集中在任何事物上——但他们缺乏的只是知识，无法赋予他们天赋。

My mother, seeing that I had difficulty in keeping back my tears, said to me: ‘‘Regulus was in the habit, when things looked grave....’ Besides, it isn’t nice for Mamma! What does Mme. de Sévigné say? Your grandmother will tell you: ‘I shall be obliged to draw upon all the courage that you lack.’’ And remembering that affection for another distracts one’s selfish griefs, she endeavoured to beguile me by telling me that she expected the removal to Saint-Cloud to go without a hitch, that she liked the cab, which she had kept waiting, that the driver seemed civil and the seats comfortable. I made an effort to smile at these trifles, and bowed my head with an air of acquiescence and satisfaction. But they helped me only to depict to myself with more accuracy Mamma’s imminent departure, and it was with an agonised heart that I gazed at her as though she were already torn from me, beneath that wide-brimmed straw hat which she had bought to wear in the country, in a flimsy dress which she had put on in view of the long drive through the sweltering midday heat; hat and dress making her some one else, some one who belonged already to the Villa Montretout, in which I should not see her.
妈妈见我忍不住流泪，就对我说：“雷古勒斯习惯了，当事情看起来很严重的时候……”而且，这对妈妈也不好！ Mme. 是什么意思？德塞维涅说？你的祖母会告诉你：“我将不得不利用你所缺乏的所有勇气。”并且记住，对他人的感情可以分散一个人自私的悲伤，她试图通过告诉我她希望搬到圣-克劳德说她很喜欢这辆出租车，她一直在等，司机看起来很有礼貌，座位也很舒服。我努力对这些小事微笑，低下头，一副默许和满意的样子。但它们只是帮助我更准确地向自己描述妈妈即将离开，我怀着痛苦的心情凝视着她，仿佛她已经从我身边被撕扯出来，戴着她买来戴的宽边草帽。在乡下，她穿着一件单薄的衣服，这是她在炎热的中午开车长途旅行时穿的。帽子和衣服使她成为另一个人，一个已经属于蒙特勒图别墅的人，我不应该在里面看到她。

To prevent the choking fits which the journey might otherwise give me the doctor had advised me to take, as we started, a good stiff dose of beer or brandy, so as to begin the journey in a state of what he called ‘euphoria,’ in which the nervous system is for a time less vulnerable. I had not yet made up my mind whether I should do this, but I wished at least that my grandmother should admit that, if I did so decide, I should have wisdom and authority on my side. I spoke therefore as if my hesitation were concerned only with where I should go for my drink, to the bar on the platform or to the restaurant-car on the train. But immediately, at the air of reproach which my grandmother’s face assumed, an air of not wishing even to entertain such an idea for a moment, ‘What!’ I said to myself, suddenly determining upon this action of going out to drink, the performance of which became necessary as a proof of my independence since the verbal announcement of it had not succeeded in passing unchallenged, ‘What! You know how ill I am, you know what the doctor ordered, and you treat me like this!’
为了防止旅途中可能发生的窒息，医生建议我在出发时喝一大杯啤酒或白兰地，以便在他所谓的“欣快感”状态下开始旅程。神经系统暂时不那么脆弱。我还没有决定是否应该这样做，但我至少希望我的祖母应该承认，如果我这样做，我应该有智慧和权威。因此，我说话时就好像我的犹豫只关心该去哪里喝一杯，是去站台上的酒吧还是去火车上的餐车。但立刻，我祖母的脸上露出了责备的神情，甚至一刻也不愿抱有这样的想法，“什么！”我对自己说，突然决定出去喝酒，作为我独立性的证明，履行这一义务是必要的，因为口头宣布它并没有成功地不受质疑地通过，“什么！你知道我病的有多严重，你也知道医生的嘱咐，你却这样对待我！”

When I had explained to my grandmother how unwell I felt, her distress, her kindness were so apparent as she replied, ‘Run along then, quickly; get yourself some beer or a liqueur if it will do you any good,’ that I flung myself upon her, almost smothering her in kisses. And if after that I went and drank a great deal too much in the restaurant-car of the train, that was because I felt that otherwise I should have a more violent attack than usual, which was just what would vex her most. When at the first stop I clambered back into our compartment I told my grandmother how pleased I was to be going to Balbec, that I felt that everything would go off splendidly, that after all I should soon grow used to being without Mamma, that the train was most comfortable, the steward and attendants in the bar so friendly that I should like to make the journey often so as to have opportunities of seeing them again. My grandmother, however, did not appear to feel the same joy as myself at all these good tidings. She answered, without looking me in the face:
当我向祖母解释我的身体有多不舒服时，她的痛苦和善意显而易见，她回答说：“那就快走吧；快走吧；”给自己喝点啤酒或利口酒吧，如果对你有什么好处的话，”我扑到她身上，亲吻得她几乎窒息。如果此后我去火车餐车里喝了很多酒，那是因为我觉得否则我会比平时受到更猛烈的攻击，而这正是最让她烦恼的。当我在第一站爬回我们的车厢时，我告诉祖母我很高兴要去巴尔贝克，我觉得一切都会顺利进行，毕竟我很快就会习惯没有妈妈的陪伴，火车是最舒服的，酒吧里的乘务员和服务员都很友好，我想经常去旅行，以便有机会再次见到他们。然而，对于这些好消息，我的祖母似乎并没有像我一样感到高兴。她没有看我的脸，回答道：

‘Why don’t you try to get a little sleep?’ and turned her gaze to the window, the blind of which, though we had drawn it, did not completely cover the glass, so that the sun could and did slip in over the polished oak of the door and the cloth of the seat (like an advertisement of a life shared with nature far more persuasive than those posted higher upon the walls of the compartment, by the railway company, representing places in the country the names of which I could not make out from where I sat) the same warm and slumberous light which lies along a forest glade.
“你为什么不试着睡一会儿呢？”她把目光转向窗户，虽然我们拉上了百叶窗，但并没有完全遮住玻璃，所以阳光可以而且确实溜进来了。门上抛光的橡木和座位上的布料（就像与大自然共享生活的广告，比铁路公司在车厢墙壁上高处张贴的广告更具说服力，这些广告代表了该国的一些地方从我坐的地方看不出森林空地上同样温暖而沉睡的光线。

But when my grandmother thought that my eyes were shut I could see her, now and again, from among the large black spots on her veil, steal a glance at me, then withdraw it, and steal back again, like a person trying to make himself, so as to get into the habit, perform some exercise that hurts him.
但当我的祖母认为我的眼睛闭着时，我时不时地能从她面纱上的大黑点中看到她，偷偷地看了我一眼，然后收回目光，然后又偷偷回来，就像一个试图让自己变得更加美丽的人。为了养成这个习惯，他自己进行一些对他有害的运动。

Thereupon I spoke to her, but that seemed not to please her either. And yet to myself the sound of my own voice was pleasant, as were the most imperceptible, the most internal movements of my body. And so I endeavoured to prolong it. I allowed each of my inflexions to hang lazily upon its word, I felt each glance from my eyes arrive just at the spot to which it was directed and stay there beyond the normal period. ‘Now, now, sit still and rest,’ said my grandmother. ‘If you can’t manage to sleep, read something.’ And she handed me a volume of Madame de Sévigné which I opened, while she buried herself in the Mémoires de Madame de Beausergent. She never travelled anywhere without a volume of each. They were her two favourite authors. With no conscious movement of my head, feeling a keen pleasure in maintaining a posture after I had adopted it, I lay back holding in my hands the volume of Madame de Sévigné which I had allowed to close, without lowering my eyes to it, or indeed letting them see anything but the blue window-blind. But the contemplation of this blind appeared to me an admirable thing, and I should not have troubled to answer anyone who might have sought to distract me from contemplating it. The blue colour of this blind seemed to me, not perhaps by its beauty but by its intense vivacity, to efface so completely all the colours that had passed before my eyes from the day of my birth up to the moment in which I had gulped down the last of my drink and it had begun to take effect, that when compared with this blue they were as drab, as void as must be retrospectively the darkness in which he has lived to a man born blind whom a subsequent operation has at length enabled to see and to distinguish colours. An old ticket-collector came to ask for our tickets. The silvery gleam that shone from the metal buttons of his jacket charmed me in spite of my absorption. I wanted to ask him to sit down beside us. But he passed on to the next carriage, and I thought with longing of the life led by railwaymen for whom, since they spent all their time on the line, hardly a day could pass without their seeing this’ old collector. The pleasure that I found in staring at the blind, and in feeling that my mouth was half-open, began at length to diminish. I became more mobile; I even moved in my seat; I opened the book that my grandmother had given me and turned its pages casually, reading whatever caught my eye. And as I read I felt my admiration for Madame de Sévigné grow.
于是我就跟她说话了，但她似乎也不高兴。然而对我自己来说，我自己的声音是令人愉快的，就像我身体最难以察觉的、最内在的运动一样。所以我努力延长它。我让我的每一个语调都懒洋洋地挂在它的词上，我感觉我的每一眼目光都恰好到达了它所指向的地方，并超出了正常的时间停留在那里。 “现在，现在，坐下来休息吧，”我祖母说。 “如果你睡不着，就读点东西。”她递给我一本《塞维涅夫人》，我打开了它，而她则埋头于《博塞让夫人回忆录》。她去任何地方都没有带上这两本书。他们是她最喜欢的两位作家。我的头没有意识地移动，在采取姿势后保持姿势时感到一种强烈的快乐，我躺下来，手里拿着我允许合上的《塞维涅夫人》的书，没有低下头去看它，或者确实让他们看到除了蓝色百叶窗之外的任何东西。但这个盲人的沉思对我来说是一件令人钦佩的事情，我不应该费心去回答任何可能试图分散我沉思的人。在我看来，这百叶窗的蓝色，也许不是因为它的美丽，而是因为它强烈的活力，完全抹去了从我出生那天到我咽下口水的那一刻在我眼前闪过的所有颜色。我喝完最后一杯酒，它已经开始生效，与这种蓝色相比，它们是单调的，空虚的，就像回想起来，他生活在黑暗中，一个天生失明的人，后来的手术终于使他成为了现实。看到并区分颜色。一位老检票员过来要我们的票。 尽管我全神贯注，但他夹克上金属纽扣发出的银色光芒还是让我着迷。我想请他坐在我们旁边。但他却走向了下一节车厢，我怀着向往的心情想起了铁路工人的生活，因为他们把所有的时间都花在铁路上，几乎每天都会看到这位老收藏家。我在盯着盲人、感觉自己的嘴半张着时所感受到的快乐最终开始减弱。我变得更加灵活；我什至在座位上动了动；我打开奶奶送给我的书，随意地翻着，看到什么就读什么。当我阅读时，我对德塞维涅夫人的钦佩与日俱增。

It is a mistake to let oneself be taken in by the purely formal details, idioms of the period or social conventions, the effect of which is that certain people believe that they have caught the Sévigné manner when they have said: ‘Tell me, my dear,’ or ‘That Count struck me as being a man of parts,’ or ‘Haymaking is the sweetest thing in the world.’ Mme. de Simiane imagines already that she is being like her grandmother because she can write: ‘M. de la Boulie is bearing wonderfully, Sir, and is in excellent condition to hear the news of his death,’ or ‘Oh, my dear Marquis, how your letter enchanted me! What can I do but answer it?’ or ‘Meseems, Sir, that you owe me a letter, and I owe you some boxes of bergamot. I discharge my debt to the number of eight; others shall follow.... Never has the soil borne so many. Apparently for your gratification.’ And she writes in this style also her letter on bleeding, on lemons and so forth, supposing it to be typical of the letters of Madame de Sévigné. But my grandmother who had approached that lady from within, attracted to her by her own love of kinsfolk and of nature, had taught me to enjoy the real beauties of her correspondence, which are altogether different. They were presently to strike me all the more forcibly inasmuch as Madame de Sévigné is a great artist of the same school as a painter whom I was to meet at Balbec, where his influence on my way of seeing things was immense. I realised at Balbec that it was in the same way as he that she presented things to her readers, in the order of our perception of them, instead of first having to explain them in relation to their several causes. But already that afternoon in the railway carriage, as I read over again that letter in which the moonlight comes: ‘I cannot resist the temptation: I put on all my bonnets and veils, though there is no need of them, I walk along this mall, where the air is as sweet as in my chamber; I find a thousand phantasms, monks white and black, sisters grey and white, linen cast here and there on the ground, men enshrouded upright against the tree-trunks,’ I was enraptured by what, a little later, I should have described (for does not she draw landscapes in the same way as he draws characters?) as the Dostoievsky side of Madame de Sévigné’s Letters.
让自己被纯粹的形式细节、那个时期的习语或社会习俗所蒙蔽是错误的，其结果是某些人认为当他们说：“告诉我，我的孩子”时，他们已经掌握了塞维涅风格。亲爱的，”或者“那个伯爵给我的印象是一个多才多艺的人”，或者“干草是世界上最甜蜜的事情。”德西米亚内已经想象她就像她的祖母一样，因为她可以写：“M.先生，德拉布利的情况非常好，听到他去世的消息时状态很好，”或者“哦，我亲爱的侯爵，你的信让我多么着迷！除了回复我还能做什么呢？”或者“先生，我觉得你欠我一封信，而我欠你几箱佛手柑。我还清了八人的债务；其他人也会效仿……这片土地从来没有孕育过如此之多。显然是为了让您满意。”她也用这种风格写了关于流血、柠檬等的信，假设这是塞维涅夫人信中的典型。但我的祖母从内心接近这位女士，被她对亲人和自然的热爱所吸引，教会我欣赏她信件中的真正美丽，这是完全不同的。它们很快就给我留下了更强烈的印象，因为塞维涅夫人是一位伟大的艺术家，与我在巴尔贝克遇见的一位画家属于同一流派，他对我看待事物的方式的影响是巨大的。我在巴尔贝克意识到，她和他一样，按照我们对事物的看法的顺序向读者呈现事物，而不是首先必须根据其几个原因来解释它们。 但那天下午，在火车车厢里，当我再次读到那封月光照进来的信时：“我无法抗拒诱惑：我戴上所有的帽子和面纱，尽管不需要它们，我沿着这条路走”商场，那里的空气和我的房间一样甜美；我发现了一千个幻象，白色和黑色的僧侣，灰色和白色的姐妹，地上到处都是亚麻布，男人直立在树干上，”我对稍后我应该描述的东西感到欣喜若狂（因为她画风景的方式和他画人物的方式不一样吗？）就像塞维涅夫人的书信中陀思妥耶夫斯基的一面。

When, that evening, after having accompanied my grandmother to her destination and spent some hours in her friend’s house, I had returned by myself to the train, at any rate I found nothing to distress me in the night which followed; this was because I had not to spend it in a room the somnolence of which would have kept me awake; I was surrounded by the soothing activity of all those movements of the train which kept me company, offered to stay and converse with me if I could not sleep, lulled me with their sounds which I wedded—as I had often wedded the chime of the Combray bells—now to one rhythm, now to another (hearing as the whim took me first four level and equivalent semi-quavers, then one semi-quaver furiously dashing against a crotchet); they neutralised the centrifugal force of my insomnia by exercising upon it a contrary pressure which kept me in equilibrium and on which my immobility and presently my drowsiness felt themselves to be borne with the same sense of refreshment that I should have had, had I been resting under the protecting vigilance of powerful forces, on the breast of nature and of life, had I been able for a moment to incarnate myself in a fish that sleeps in the sea, driven unheeding by the currents and the tides, or in an eagle outstretched upon the air, with no support but the storm.
那天晚上，当我陪祖母到达目的地并在她朋友家里呆了几个小时后，我独自回到火车上时，无论如何，在接下来的夜晚我没有发现任何让我难过的事情；这是因为我不必在一个房间里度过，因为房间里的昏昏欲睡会让我无法入睡。我被火车的所有这些舒缓的活动所包围，它们陪伴着我，在我睡不着的时候主动提出留下来和我交谈，用我喜欢的火车声音让我平静下来——就像我经常喜欢火车的铃声一样。贡布雷的钟声——时而一种节奏，时而另一种节奏（一时兴起，我听到了前四个音阶和同等的八分音符，然后是一个八分音符猛烈地冲向四分音符）；他们通过施加相反的压力来中和我失眠的离心力，使我保持平衡，在这种压力下，我的一动不动和我的睡意都感觉得到了同样的清爽感，就像我在休息时应该有的那样。在强大力量的保护警惕下，在自然和生命的怀抱中，我是否能够暂时化身为一条沉睡在海中、不受潮流和潮汐驱使的鱼，或者化身为一只伸展的鹰？在空中，除了风暴之外没有任何支持。

Sunrise is a necessary concomitant of long railway journeys, just as are hard-boiled eggs, illustrated papers, packs of cards, rivers upon which boats strain but make no progress. At a certain moment,—when I was counting over the thoughts that had filled my mind, in the preceding minutes, so as to discover whether I had just been asleep or not (and when the very uncertainty which made me ask myself the question was to furnish me with an affirmative answer), in the pale square of the window, over a small black wood I saw some ragged clouds whose fleecy edges were of a fixed, dead pink, not liable to change, like the colour that dyes the wing which has grown to wear it, or the sketch upon which the artist’s fancy has washed it. But I felt that, unlike them, this colour was due neither to inertia nor to caprice but to necessity and life. Presently there gathered behind it reserves of light. It brightened; the sky turned to a crimson which I strove, gluing my eyes to the window, to see more clearly, for I felt that it was related somehow to the most intimate life of Nature, but, the course of the line altering, the train turned, the morning scene gave place in the frame of the window to a nocturnal village, its roofs still blue with moonlight, its pond encrusted with the opalescent nacre of night, beneath a firmament still powdered with all its stars, and I was lamenting the loss of my strip of pink sky when I caught sight of it afresh, but red this time, in the opposite window which it left at a second bend in the line, so that I spent my time running from one window to the other to reassemble, to collect oh a single canvas the intermittent, antipodean fragments of my fine, scarlet, ever-changing morning, and to obtain a comprehensive view of it and a continuous picture.
日出是长途铁路旅行的必然伴随物，就像煮熟的鸡蛋、带插图的报纸、一叠卡片、船只在其上行驶却毫无进展的河流一样。在某个时刻，——当我清点在前几分钟内充满我脑海的想法，以便发现我是否刚刚睡着时（当让我问自己这个问题的不确定性是给我一个肯定的答案），在窗户的苍白方形里，在一小片黑色的树林里，我看到一些参差不齐的云朵，它们柔软的边缘是固定的、死粉色的，不易改变，就像染上翅膀的颜色一样它已经长大，可以穿着它，或者艺术家的想象力洗过它的草图。但我觉得，与他们不同的是，这种颜色既不是惯性，也不是任性，而是必然和生活。现在，它的后面聚集了一些储备的光。它变亮了；天空变成了深红色，我努力将眼睛粘在窗户上，以便看得更清楚，因为我觉得这与大自然最亲密的生命有关，但是，线路的路线改变了，火车转向了清晨的景色在窗框里变成了一个夜间村庄，它的屋顶在月光下仍然是蓝色的，它的池塘覆盖着夜色的乳白色珍珠母，在天空下仍然布满了星星，我正在哀叹失去当我再次看到它时，我看到了我那条粉红色的天空，但这次是红色的，在它在第二个拐弯处留下的对面窗户里，所以我花时间从一个窗户跑到另一个窗户重新聚集，在一张画布上收集我美好的、猩红色的、不断变化的早晨的断断续续的、相反的碎片，并获得对它的全面观察和连续的画面。

The scenery became broken, abrupt, the train stopped at a little station between two mountains. Far down the gorge, on the edge of a hurrying Stream, one could see only a solitary watch-house, deep-planted in the water which ran past on a level with its windows. If a person can be the product of a soil the peculiar charm of which one distinguishes in that person, more even than the peasant girl whom I had so desperately longed to see appear when I wandered by myself along the Méséglise way, in the woods of Roussainville, such a person must be the big girl whom I now saw emerge from the house and, climbing a path lighted by the first slanting rays of the sun, come towards the station carrying a jar of milk. In her valley from which its congregated summits hid the rest of the world, she could never see anyone save in these trains which stopped for a moment only. She passed down the line of windows, offering coffee and milk to a few awakened passengers. Purpled with the glow of morning, her face was rosier than the sky. I felt in her presence that desire to live which is reborn in us whenever we become conscious anew of beauty and of happiness. We invariably forget that these are individual qualities, and, substituting for them in our mind a conventional type at which we arrive by striking a sort of mean amongst the different faces that have taken our fancy, the pleasures we have known, we are left with mere abstract images which are lifeless and dull because they are lacking in precisely that element of novelty, different from anything we have known, that element which is proper to beauty and to happiness. And we deliver on life a pessimistic judgment which we suppose to be fair, for we believed that we were taking into account when we formed it happiness and beauty, whereas in fact we left them out and replaced them by syntheses in which there is not a single atom of either. So it is that a well-read man will at once begin to yawn with boredom when anyone speaks to him of a new ‘good book,’ because he imagines a sort of composite of all the good books that he has read and knows already, whereas a good book is something special, something incalculable, and is made up not of the sum of all previous masterpieces but of something which the most thorough assimilation of every one of them would not enable him to discover, since it exists not in their sum but beyond it. Once he has become acquainted with this new work, the well-read man, till then apathetic, feels his interest awaken in the reality which it depicts. So, alien to the models of beauty which my fancy was wont to sketch when I was by myself, this strapping girl gave me at once the sensation of a certain happiness (the sole form, always different, in which we may learn the sensation of happiness), of a happiness that would be realised by my staying and living there by her side. But in this again the temporary cessation of Habit played a great part. I was giving the milk-girl the benefit of what was really my own entire being, ready to taste the keenest joys, which now confronted her. As a rule it is with our being reduced to a minimum that we live, most of our faculties lie dormant because they can rely upon Habit, which knows what there is to be done and has no need of their services. But on this morning of travel, the interruption of the routine of my existence, the change of place and time, had made their presence indispensable. My habits, which were sedentary and not matutinal, played me false, and all my faculties came hurrying to take their place, vying with one another in their zeal, rising, each of them, like waves in a storm, to the same unaccustomed level, from the basest to the most exalted, from breath, appetite, the circulation of my blood to receptivity and imagination. I cannot say whether, so as to make me believe that this girl was unlike the rest of women, the rugged charm of these barren tracts had been added to her own, but if so she gave it back to them. Life would have seemed an exquisite thing to me if only I had been free to spend it, hour after hour, with her, to go with her to the stream, to the cow, to the train, to be always at her side, to feel that I was known to her, had my place in her thoughts. She would have initiated me into the delights of country life and of the first hours of the day. I signalled to her to give me some of her coffee. I felt that I must be noticed by her. She did not see me; I called to her. Above her body, which was of massive build, the complexion of her face was so burnished and so ruddy that she appeared almost as though I were looking at her through a lighted window. She had turned and was coming towards me; I could not take my eyes from her face which grew larger as she approached, like a sun which it was somehow possible to arrest in its course and draw towards one, letting itself be seen at close quarters, blinding the eyes with its blaze of red and gold. She fastened on me her penetrating stare, but while the porters ran along the platform shutting doors the train had begun to move. I saw her leave the station and go down the hill to her home; it was broad daylight now; I was speeding away from the dawn. Whether my exaltation had been produced by this girl or had on the other hand been responsible for most of the pleasure that I had found in the sight of her, in the sense of her presence, in either event she was so closely associated with it that my desire to see her again was really not so much a physical as a mental desire, not to allow this state of enthusiasm to perish utterly, not to be separated for ever from the person who, although quite unconsciously, had participated in it. It was not only because this state was a pleasant one. It was principally because (just as increased tension upon a cord or accelerated vibration of a nerve produces a different sound or colour) it gave another tonality to all that I saw, introduced me as an actor upon the stage of an unknown and infinitely more interesting universe; that handsome girl whom I still could see, while the train gathered speed, was like part of a life other than the life that I knew, separated from it by a clear boundary, in which the sensations that things produced in me were no longer the same, from which to return now to my old life would be almost suicide. To procure myself the pleasure of feeling that I had at least an attachment to this new life, it would suffice that I should live near enough to the little station to be able to come to it every morning for a cup of coffee from the girl. But alas, she must be for ever absent from the other life towards which I was being borne with ever increasing swiftness, a life to the prospect of which I resigned myself only by weaving plans that would enable me to take the same train again some day and to stop at the same station, a project which would have the further advantage of providing with subject matter the selfish, active, practical, mechanical, indolent, centrifugal tendency which is that of the human mind; for our mind turns readily aside from the effort which is required if it is to analyse in itself, in a general and disinterested manner, a pleasant impression which we have received. And as, on the other hand, we wish to continue to think of that impression, the mind prefers to imagine it in the future tense, which while it gives us no clue as to the real nature of the thing, saves us the trouble of recreating it in our own consciousness and allows us to hope that we may receive it afresh from without.
景色变得破碎、突兀，火车停在两山之间的一个小站。峡谷深处，在一条湍急的溪流边上，人们只能看到一座孤零零的瞭望台，深深地扎在水中，水流与它的窗户齐平。如果一个人能够成为土壤的产物，那么他身上所具有的独特魅力，甚至比我独自沿着梅塞格利兹小路在森林中漫步时迫切渴望看到的那个农家女孩更具有魅力。鲁桑维尔，这样的人一定就是我现在看到的那个大姑娘，她从房子里出来，沿着第一缕斜射阳光照亮的小路，拎着一罐牛奶朝车站走来。在她的山谷里，山峰聚集，世界其他地方都被遮住了，除了这些只停了一会儿的火车之外，她永远看不到任何人。她穿过一排窗户，为几名醒来的乘客提供咖啡和牛奶。她的脸被晨光染成紫色，比天空还要红润。在她面前，我感觉到每当我们重新意识到美丽和幸福时，我们就会重生对生活的渴望。我们总是忘记，这些都是个人品质，并且，在我们的头脑中用一种传统的类型代替它们，我们通过在我们所喜欢的不同面孔、我们所知道的快乐中进行某种平均来达到这一点，我们留下了仅仅是抽象的图像，毫无生气，乏味，因为它们恰恰缺乏新颖的元素，不同于我们所知道的任何东西，即美丽和幸福所特有的元素。 我们对生活做出了悲观的判断，我们认为这是公平的，因为我们相信，当我们形成它时，我们正在考虑幸福和美丽，而事实上，我们把它们排除在外，并用综合来代替它们，其中没有一个任一的单个原子。因此，当一个博览群书的人与他谈论一本新的“好书”时，他会立刻开始无聊地打哈欠，因为他想象着一种他已经读过和已经知道的所有好书的综合体，然而，一本好书是某种特别的东西，某种无法估量的东西，它不是由所有以前的杰作的总和组成的，而是由那些即使对其中每一部杰作进行最彻底的吸收也无法让他发现的东西组成的，因为它不存在于它们的总和中。但超越它。一旦熟悉了这部新书，这位博览群书的人，直到那时还冷漠无情，就会感到他对它所描绘的现实产生了兴趣。因此，与我独自一人时所想象的美丽模型不同，这个身材魁梧的女孩立刻给了我某种幸福的感觉（唯一的形式，总是不同的，在其中我们可以学到幸福的感觉）幸福），通过我留在她身边并生活在那里而实现的幸福。但在这件事上，暂时停止习惯又起了很大的作用。我正在让挤牛奶的女孩受益于我自己的整个存在，准备好品尝她现在面临的最强烈的快乐。一般来说，当我们的生存能力被降低到最低限度时，我们的大部分能力都处于休眠状态，因为它们可以依赖习惯，习惯知道要做什么，并且不需要它们的服务。 但在今天早上的旅行中，我的日常生活被打乱了，地点和时间也发生了变化，他们的出现变得不可或缺。我的习惯是久坐而不是早起，这使我变得虚伪，我所有的能力都急忙取代它们的位置，在热情中相互竞争，每个能力都像暴风雨中的波浪一样上升到同样不习惯的水平，从最低级到最高尚，从呼吸、食欲、血液循环到接受力和想象力。我不能说，为了让我相信这个女孩与其他女人不同，这些贫瘠土地的粗犷魅力是否被添加到她自己的身上，但如果是这样，她又把它还给了她们。如果我能自由地花一小时又一小时和她在一起，和她一起去小溪边，和牛一起去，一起去火车上，永远在她身边，感觉她认识我，在她的思想中占有我的位置。她会让我感受到乡村生活和一天的第一个小时的乐趣。我示意她给我一些咖啡。我觉得我一定被她注意到了。她没有看到我；我叫她。在她身材魁梧的身躯之上，她的脸庞显得如此光滑、红润，看起来就像我透过一扇亮着灯的窗户看着她一样。她转身朝我走来。我无法将目光从她的脸上移开，她的脸随着她的靠近而变大，就像一轮太阳，不知何故有可能在其运行过程中被阻止并吸引到一个太阳上，让自己在近距离被看到，它的红色火焰刺瞎了我的眼睛和黄金。她用敏锐的目光盯着我，但当搬运工沿着站台跑去关门时，火车已经开始移动了。 我看见她离开车站，下山回家。现在已经是大白天了。我正加速远离黎明。无论我的兴奋是由这个女孩引起的，还是另一方面，我在看到她时发现的大部分快乐，从她的存在的意义上来说，无论哪种情况，她都与它密切相关，以至于我想再次见到她的愿望与其说是一种身体上的愿望，不如说是一种精神上的愿望，不想让这种热情彻底消失，不想永远与那个虽然无意识地参与其中的人分离。不仅仅是因为这种状态是一种愉快的状态。这主要是因为（就像绳索上的张力增加或神经的加速振动会产生不同的声音或颜色一样）它给我所看到的一切带来了另一种音调，将我作为一个演员带到了一个未知且无限有趣的舞台上宇宙;当火车加速时，我仍然能看到那个美丽的女孩，她就像是我所熟悉的生活之外的另一种生活的一部分，与它有一个清晰的界限分开，其中事物在我身上产生的感觉不再是我所熟悉的生活的一部分。同样的，现在回到我以前的生活几乎是自杀。为了让自己感到至少对这种新生活有一种依恋，我只要住得离小车站足够近，每天早上都能到那里喝一杯女孩送的咖啡就足够了。 但可惜的是，她一定永远缺席了我正以越来越快的速度走向的另一种生活，我只能通过制定计划使我有一天能够再次乘坐同一趟火车而放弃这种生活的前景。并停留在同一站，一个项目将具有进一步的优势，提供主题的自私，积极，实用，机械，懒惰，离心倾向，这是人类思想的倾向；因为我们的头脑很容易放弃以一般性和公正的方式分析我们所收到的令人愉快的印象所需的努力。另一方面，由于我们希望继续思考这种印象，大脑更喜欢以将来时态来想象它，虽然它没有给我们任何有关事物真实本质的线索，但省去了我们的麻烦在我们自己的意识中重新创造它，并让我们希望我们可以从外部重新接收它。

Certain names of towns, Vezelay or Chartres, Bourses or Beauvais, serve to indicate, by abbreviation, the principal church in those towns. This partial acceptation, in which we are so accustomed to take the word, comes at length—if the names in question are those of places that we do not yet know—to fashion for us a mould of the name as a solid whole, which from that time onwards, whenever we wish it to convey the idea of the town—of that town which we have never seen—will impose on it, as on a cast, the same carved outlines, in the same style of art, will make of the town a sort of vast cathedral. It was, nevertheless, in a railway-station, above the door of a refreshment-room, that I read the name—almost Persian in style—of Balbec. I strode buoyantly through the station and across the avenue that led past it, I asked my way to the beach so as to see nothing in the place but its church and the sea; people seemed not to understand what I meant. Old Balbec, Balbec-en-Terre, at which I had arrived, had neither beach nor harbour. It was, most certainly, in the sea that the fishermen had found, according to the legend, the miraculous Christ, of which a window in the church that stood a few yards from where I now was recorded the discovery; it was indeed from cliffs battered by the waves that had been quarried the stone of its navfc and towers. But this sea, which for those reasons I had imagined as flowing up to die at the foot of the window, was twelve miles away and more, at Balbec-Plage, and, rising beside its cupola, that steeple, which, because I had read that it was itself a rugged Norman cliff on which seeds were blown and sprouted, round which the sea-birds wheeled, I had always pictured to myself as receiving at its base the last drying foam of the uplifted waves, stood on a Square from which two lines of tramway diverged, opposite a Café which bore, written in letters of gold, the word ‘Billiards’; it stood out against a background of houses with the roofs of which no upstanding mast was blended. And the church—entering my mind with the Café, with the passing stranger of whom I had had to ask my way, with the station to which presently I should have to return—made part of the general whole, seemed an accident, a by-product of this summer afternoon, in which its mellow and distended dome against the sky was like a fruit of which the same light that bathed the chimneys of the houses was ripening the skin, pink, glowing, melting-soft. But I wished only to consider the eternal significance of the carvings when I recognised the Apostles, which I had seen in casts in the Trocadéro museum, and which on either side of the Virgin, before the deep bay of the porch, were awaiting me as though to do me reverence. With their benign, blunt, mild faces and bowed shoulders they seemed to be advancing upon me with an air of welcome, singing the Alleluia of a fine day. But it was evident that their expression was unchanging as that on a dead man’s face, and could be modified only by my turning about to look at them in different aspects. I said to myself: ‘Here I am: this is the Church of Balbec. This square, which looks as though it were conscious of its glory, is the only place in the world that possesses Balbec Church. All that I have seen so far have been photographs of this church—and of these famous Apostles, this Virgin of the Porch, mere casts only. Now it is the church itself, the statue itself; these are they; they, the unique things—this is something far greater.’
某些城镇名称，如维泽莱或沙特尔、交易所或博韦，通过缩写来表示这些城镇的主要教堂。我们如此习惯于接受这个词的这种部分接受，如果所讨论的名称是我们还不知道的地方的名称，最终会为我们塑造一个作为坚实整体的名称的模型，从那时起，每当我们希望它传达这个城镇的想法——那个我们从未见过的城镇的想法时，就会像在铸件上一样，以同样的艺术风格，在上面强加同样的雕刻轮廓，这座城镇就像一座巨大的大教堂。尽管如此，我还是在火车站茶点室的门上方读到了巴尔贝克的名字——几乎是波斯语风格。我轻快地大步穿过车站，穿过经过车站的大道，问去海滩的路，以便除了教堂和大海之外什么也看不到。人们似乎不明白我的意思。我到达的老巴尔贝克，Balbec-en-Terre，既没有海滩，也没有港口。根据传说，渔民们肯定是在海里发现了神奇的基督，距离我现在几码远的教堂里的一扇窗户记录了这一发现。它确实是从被海浪冲击的悬崖上开采出来的，用于建造导航中心和塔楼的石头。 但是，出于这些原因，我想象这片大海在窗脚下流淌而死，却在十二英里之外，在巴尔贝克海滩，还有那座尖塔，耸立在它的圆顶旁边，因为我有读到它本身就是一座崎岖的诺曼悬崖，种子在上面被风吹发芽，海鸟在它周围盘旋，我一直想象自己在它的底部接收着上升的海浪的最后干燥的泡沫，站在一个广场上两条有轨电车线路分叉，对面是一家咖啡馆，咖啡馆里用金字写着“台球”一词；它在屋顶没有直立桅杆的房屋背景下显得格外显眼。教堂——和咖啡馆一起进入我的脑海，和我不得不问路的路过的陌生人，和我很快就要返回的车站——成为整体的一部分，似乎是一个意外，一个由——这个夏日午后的产物，在天空的映衬下，它圆润而膨胀的圆顶就像一个水果，沐浴在房屋烟囱上的光线正在使它的果皮成熟，粉红色，发光，柔软。但当我认出使徒时，我只想考虑这些雕刻的永恒意义，我在特罗卡德罗博物馆的铸件中看到过这些使徒，它们在圣母玛利亚的两侧，在门廊的深海湾前，正等待着我。虽然是为了表达我的敬意。他们慈祥、坦率、温和的脸庞和低垂的肩膀，似乎带着欢迎的神情向我走来，唱着美好的一天的哈利路亚。但很明显，他们的表情就像死人的脸上一样一成不变，只有我转过身来从不同的角度看他们才能改变。我对自己说：‘我在这里：这是巴尔贝克教堂。 这个看起来似乎意识到自己的荣耀的广场是世界上唯一拥有巴尔贝克教堂的地方。到目前为止，我所看到的都是这座教堂的照片，以及这些著名使徒的照片，这位门廊处女的照片，只是演员的照片。现在是教堂本身、雕像本身；这就是他们；他们，独特的东西——这是更伟大的东西。’

It was something less, perhaps, also. As a young man on the day of an examination or of a duel feels the question that he has been asked, the shot that he has fired, to be a very little thing when he thinks of the reserves of knowledge and of valour that he possesses and would like to have displayed, so my mind, which had exalted the Virgin of the Porch far above the reproductions that I had had before my eyes, inaccessible by the vicissitudes which had power to threaten them, intact although they were destroyed, ideal, endowed with universal value, was astonished to see the statue which it had carved a thousand times, reduced now to its own apparent form in stone, occupying, on the radius of my outstretched arm, a place in which it had for rivals an election placard and the point of my stick, fettered to the Square, inseparable from the head of the main street, powerless to hide from the gaze of the Café and of the omnibus office, receiving on its face half of that ray of the setting sun (half, presently, in a few hours’ time, of the light of the street lamp) of which the Bank building received the other half, tainted simultaneously with that branch office of a money-lending establishment by the smells from the pastry-cook’s oven, subjected to the tyranny of the Individual to such a point that, if I had chosen to scribble my name upon that stone, it was she, the illustrious Virgin whom until then I had endowed with a general existence and an intangible beauty, the Virgin of Balbec, the unique (which meant, alas, the only one) who, on her body coated with the same soot as defiled the neighbouring houses, would have displayed—powerless to rid herself of them—to all the admiring strangers come there to gaze upon her, the marks of my piece of chalk and the letters of my name; it was she, indeed, the immortal work of art, so long desired, whom I found, transformed, as was the church itself, into a little old woman in stone whose height I could measure and count her wrinkles. But time was passing; I must return to the station, where I was to wait for my grandmother and Françoise, so that we should all arrive at Balbec-Plage together. I reminded myself of what I had read about Balbec, of Swann’s saying: ‘It is exquisite; as fine as Siena.’ And casting the blame for my disappointment upon various accidental causes, such as the state of my health, my exhaustion after the journey, my incapacity for looking at things properly, I endeavoured to console myself with the thought that other towns remained still intact for me, that I might soon, perhaps, be making my way, as into a shower of pearls, into the cool pattering sound that dripped from Quimperlé, cross that green water lit by a rosy glow in which Pont-Aven was bathed; but as for Balbec, no sooner had I set foot in it than it was as though I had broken open a name which ought to have been kept hermetically closed, and into which, seizing at once the opportunity that I had imprudently given them when I expelled all the images that had been living in it until then, a tramway, a Café, people crossing the square, the local branch of a Bank, irresistibly propelled by some external pressure, by a pneumatic force, had come crowding into the interior of those two syllables which, closing over them, let them now serve as a border to the porch of the Persian church, and would never henceforward cease to contain them.
或许，这也不是那么回事。就像一个年轻人在考试或决斗的那天，当他想到自己所拥有的知识储备和勇气时，他会觉得自己被问到的问题、自己开出的那一枪都是微不足道的小事。我想展示我的思想，它使门廊圣母远远高于我眼前的复制品，这些复制品因有能力威胁它们的沧桑而无法接近，尽管它们被摧毁了，但它们完好无损，是理想的，赋予了普世价值，我惊讶地看到它已经雕刻了一千次的雕像，现在已经变成了石头本身的形状，在我伸出的手臂的半径上占据了一个地方，上面有一个选举标语牌我的手杖尖被束缚在广场上，与大街的尽头密不可分，无法躲避咖啡馆和公共汽车办公室的目光，在它的脸上接收着一半的夕阳光线（一半）目前，在几个小时的时间里，路灯的光亮），银行大楼接收了另一半，同时与放贷机构的分支机构一起被糕点师烤箱的气味污染，屈服于个人的暴政到了这样的程度，如果我选择在那块石头上写下我的名字，那就是她，这位杰出的圣母，直到那时我才赋予了她普遍的存在和无形的美丽，圣母巴尔贝克，独一无二的（唉，这意味着，唯一的一个），她的身上涂满了与污染邻近房屋相同的烟灰，她会向所有慕名而来的陌生人展示——无力摆脱它们——她身上有我的粉笔痕迹和我名字的字母；确实是她，不朽的我发现她是我渴望已久的艺术品，就像教堂本身一样，变成了一个石头里的小老妇人，我可以测量她的高度并数出她的皱纹。但时间在流逝；我必须返回车站，在那里等待我的祖母和弗朗索瓦丝，以便我们一起到达巴尔贝克海滩。我想起了我读过的有关巴尔贝克的内容，想起了斯旺的一句话：“它很精致；它是一个美丽的地方。” ”我把自己的失望归咎于各种偶然的原因，比如我的健康状况、旅途后的疲惫、我无法正确看待事物，我努力安慰自己，认为其他人城镇对我来说仍然完好无损，也许我很快就会走上一条路，就像走进珍珠雨，走进从坎佩莱滴下的清凉的拍打声，穿过那片被玫瑰色光芒照亮的绿水，阿旺桥在其中洗澡了；但至于巴尔贝克，我一踏足它，就好像我打开了一个本应密封的名字，并且立即抓住了我在我访问时不谨慎地给他们的机会。驱逐了在此之前一直存在于其中的所有图像，一条电车、一家咖啡馆、穿过广场的人们、一家银行的当地分行，在某种外部压力、气动力的推动下，不可抗拒地涌入了内部。这两个音节将它们合拢在一起，让它们现在成为波斯教堂门廊的边界，并且从此以后永远不会停止包含它们。

In the little train of the local railway company which was to take us to Balbec-Plage I found my grandmother, but found her alone—for, imagining that she was sending Françoise on ahead of her, so as to have everything ready before we arrived, but having mixed up her instructions, she had succeeded only in packing off Françoise in the wrong direction, who at that moment was being carried down all unsuspectingly, at full speed, to Nantes, and would probably wake up next morning at Bordeaux. No sooner had I taken my seat in the carriage, filled with the fleeting light of sunset and with the lingering heat of the afternoon (the former enabling me, alas, to see written clearly upon my grandmother’s face how much the latter had tired her), than she began: ‘Well, and Balbec?’ with a smile so brightly illuminated by her expectation of the great pleasure which she supposed me to have been enjoying that I dared not at once confess to her my disappointment. Besides, the impression which my mind had been seeking occupied it steadily less as the place drew nearer to which my body would have to become accustomed. At the end—still more than an hour away—of this journey I was trying to form a picture of the manager of the hotel at Balbec, to whom I, at that moment, did not exist, and I should have liked to be going to present myself to him in more impressive company than that of my grandmother, who would be certain to ask for a reduction of his terms. The only thing positive about him was his haughty condescension; his lineaments were still vague.
在当地铁路公司准备带我们去巴尔贝克海滩的小火车上，我找到了祖母，但发现她独自一人——因为，想象着她要派弗朗索瓦丝在她前面，以便在我们到达之前准备好一切但她混淆了指示，只成功地把弗朗索瓦丝带向了错误的方向，此时弗朗索瓦丝毫无戒心地被全速运往南特，很可能第二天早上就会在波尔多醒来。我一坐进马车，就被夕阳的余辉和午后的余热所笼罩（前者让我，唉，我清楚地看到祖母的脸上写着后者让她有多累） ”，然后她开始说道：“那么，巴尔贝克呢？”她的笑容如此灿烂，因为她对我所享受的巨大快乐充满了期待，以至于我不敢立即向她承认我的失望。此外，随着我​​的身体必须适应的地方越来越近，我的头脑一直在寻找的印象逐渐减少。在这次旅程的最后——还有一个多小时——我试图为巴尔贝克酒店的经理拍一张照片，对他来说，在那一刻，我并不存在，我本来应该去的向他展示自己比我的祖母更令人印象深刻，我的祖母肯定会要求减少他的条件。他唯一积极的一面就是他的傲慢和居高临下。他的轮廓仍然模糊。

Every few minutes the little train brought us to a standstill in one of the stations which came before Balbec-Plage, stations the mere names of which (Incarville, Marcouville, Doville, Pont-a-Couleuvre, Arambouville, Saint-Mars-le-Vieux, Hermonville, Maineville) seemed to me outlandish, whereas if I had come upon them in a book I should at once have been struck by their affinity to the names of certain places in the neighbourhood of Combray. But to the trained ear two musical airs, consisting each of so many notes, several of which are common to them both, will present no similarity whatever if they differ in the colour of their harmony and orchestration. So it was that nothing could have reminded me less than these dreary names, made up of sand, of space too airy and empty and of salt, out of which the termination ‘ville’ always escaped, as the ‘fly’ seems to spring out from the end of the word ‘butterfly’—nothing could have reminded me less of those other names, Roussainville or Martinville, which, because I had heard them pronounced so often by my great-aunt at table, in the dining-room, had acquired a certain sombre charm in which were blended perhaps extracts of the flavour of ‘preserves,’ the smell of the fire of logs and of the pages of one of Bergotte’s books, the colour of the stony front of the house opposite, all of which things still to-day when they rise like a gaseous bubble from the depths of my memory preserve their own specific virtue through all the successive layers of rival interests which must be traversed before they reach the surface.
每隔几分钟，小火车就会让我们在巴尔贝克普拉日之前的一个车站停下来，这些车站的名称仅是（因卡维尔、马尔库维尔、多维尔、蓬阿库勒夫尔、阿朗布维尔、圣马尔勒-老城、赫蒙维尔、缅因维尔）对我来说似乎很奇怪，但如果我在一本书中看到它们，我会立即被它们与贡布雷附近某些地方的名字的相似性所震惊。但对于训练有素的耳朵来说，两个音乐曲调，每个曲调都包含如此多的音符，其中有几个音符是它们共同的，如果它们的和声和配器的色彩不同，那么它们就不会表现出任何相似之处。因此，没有什么比这些沉闷的名字更能提醒我了，这些名字由沙子、空旷、空旷和盐组成的空间组成，“ville”这个词总是从这些名字中逃脱，就像“fly”似乎跳出来一样。从“蝴蝶”这个词的末尾开始——没有什么比这更让我想起那些其他名字了，鲁桑维尔或马丁维尔，因为我在餐厅的餐桌上经常听到我的姨婆念出这些名字，所以我想起了这些名字。获得了某种阴沉的魅力，其中混合了也许是“蜜饯”味道的提取物、原木火的气味和贝戈特的一本书的书页的气味，对面房子的石头正面的颜色，所有这些时至今日，当它们像气泡一样从我的记忆深处升起时，它们在到达表面之前必须经过所有连续的竞争利益层，从而保留了它们自己特定的美德。

These were—commanding the distant sea from the crests of their several dunes or folding themselves already for the night beneath hills of a crude green colour and uncomfortable shape, like that of the sofa in one’s bedroom in an hotel at which one has just arrived, each composed of a cluster of villas whose line was extended to include a lawn-tennis court and now and then a casino, over which a flag would be snapping in the freshening breeze, like a hollow cough—a series of watering-places which now let me see for the first time their regular visitors, but let me see only the external features of those visitors—lawn-tennis players in white hats, the station-master spending all his life there on the spot among his tamarisks and roses, a lady in a straw ‘boater’ who, following the everyday routine of an existence which I should never know, was calling to her dog which had stopped to examine something in the road before going in to her bungalow where the lamp was already lighted for her return—which with these strangely usual and slightingly familiar sights stung my un-greeted eyes and stabbed my exiled heart. But how much were my sufferings increased when we had finally landed in the hall of the Grand Hotel at Balbec, and I stood there in front of the monumental staircase that looked like marble, while my grandmother, regardless of the growing hostility of the strangers among whom we should have to live, discussed ‘terms’ with the manager, a sort of nodding mandarin whose face and voice were alike covered with scars (left by the excision of countless pustules from one and from the other of the divers accents acquired from an alien ancestry and in a cosmopolitan upbringing) who stood there in a smart dinner-jacket, with the air of an expert psychologist, classifying, whenever the ‘omnibus’ discharged a fresh load, the ‘nobility and gentry’ as ‘geesers’ and the ‘hotel crooks’ as nobility and gentry. Forgetting, probably, that he himself was not drawing five hundred francs a month, he had a profound contempt for people to whom five hundred francs—or, as he preferred ta put it,’twenty-five louis’ was ‘a lot of money,’ and regarded them as belonging to a race of pariahs for whom the Grand Hotel was certainly not intended. It is true that even within its walls there were people who did not pay very much and yet had not forfeited the manager’s esteem, provided that he was assured that they were watching their expenditure not from poverty so much as from avarice. For this could in no way lower their standing since it is a vice and may consequently be found at every grade of social position. Social position was the one thing by which the manager was impressed, social position, or rather the signs which seemed to him to imply that it was exalted, such as not taking one’s hat off when one came into the hall, wearing knickerbockers, or an overcoat with a waist, and taking a cigar with a band of purple and gold out of a crushed morocco case—to none of which advantages could I, alas, lay claim. He would also adorn his business conversation with choice expressions, to which, as a rule, he gave a wrong meaning.
它们是——从几个沙丘的顶部指挥着遥远的大海，或者已经在粗糙的绿色和不舒服的形状的山下折叠自己过夜，就像刚到达的酒店卧室里的沙发一样，每座别墅都由一系列别墅组成，别墅的线延伸到了一个草坪网球场，偶尔还有一个赌场，赌场上方的一面旗帜在清新的微风中飘扬，就像空洞的咳嗽一样——一系列的饮水场所现在让我第一次看到他们的常客，但让我只看到这些访客的外表——戴着白帽子的草地网球运动员，站长一生都在他的红柳和玫瑰丛中度过，一个穿着稻草“船夫”的女士，按照我永远不应该知道的生活的日常生活，呼唤着她的狗，狗在进入她的平房之前停下来检查路上的东西，那里的灯已经为她点亮了回来了——这些奇怪的平常而又有点熟悉的景象刺痛了我不曾见过的眼睛，刺痛了我流放的心。 但是，当我们最终降落在巴尔贝克大酒店的大厅里时，我的痛苦有多少增加了，我站在看起来像大理石的巨大楼梯前，而我的祖母，不顾周围陌生人日益增长的敌意我们应该住的人，与经理讨论“条款”，经理是一位点头的普通话，他的脸和声音都布满伤疤（由于从一个和另一个从一个和另一个从一个不同的口音中获得的无数脓疱中被切除而留下）他穿着漂亮的晚礼服站在那里，一副心理学家专家的样子，每当“综合公共汽车”释放新的负载时，他就将“贵族和士绅”分类为“鹅”，将“贵族”分类为“鹅”，将“贵族”分类为“鹅” “酒店骗子”指的是贵族和绅士。也许忘记了，他自己每月也拿不到五百法郎，他对那些认为五百法郎——或者用他更喜欢的说法，“二十五路易”是“一大笔钱”的人怀有深深的蔑视。 ，”并认为他们属于贱民种族，大酒店当然不适合他们。确实，即使在它的围墙内，也有人支付不多，但并没有失去经理的尊重，只要他确信他们的开支不是出于贫穷，而是出于贪婪。因为这绝不会降低他们的地位，因为这是一种恶习，因此在各个社会地位阶层中都可能发现这种恶习。 社会地位是给经理留下深刻印象的一件事，社会地位，或者更确切地说，在他看来，暗示着社会地位受到崇高的标志，比如当一个人走进大厅时不脱帽子，穿着灯笼裤或一件收腰的大衣，从一个压碎的摩洛哥盒子里拿出一支带有紫色和金色带子的雪茄——唉，我不能声称这有任何好处。他还会用一些精选的表达方式来修饰自己的商务谈话，但通常他会赋予这些表达错误的含义。

While I heard my grandmother, who shewed no sign of annoyance at his listening to her with his hat on his head and whistling through his teeth at her, ask him in an artificial voice, ‘And what are... your charges?... Oh! far too high for my little budget,’ waiting upon a bench, I sought refuge in the innermost depths of my own consciousness, strove to migrate to a plane of eternal thoughts—to leave nothing of myself, nothing that lived and felt on the surface of my body, anaesthetised as are those of animals which by inhibition feign death when they are attacked—so as not to suffer too keenly in this place, with which my total unfamiliarity was made all the more evident to me when I saw the familiarity that seemed at the same moment to be enjoyed by a smartly dressed lady for whom the manager shewed his respect by taking liberties with the little dog that followed her across the hall, the young ‘blood’ with a feather in his hat who asked, as he came in, ‘Any letters?’—all these people to whom it was an act of home-coming to mount those stairs of imitation marble. And at the same time the triple frown of Minos, ^Eacus and Rhadamanthus (beneath which I plunged my naked soul as into an unknown element where there was nothing now to protect it) was bent sternly upon me by a group of gentlemen who, though little versed perhaps in the art of receiving, yet bore the title ‘Reception Clerks,’ while beyond them again, through a closed wall of glass, were people sitting in a reading-room for the description of which I should have had to borrow from Dante alternately the colours in which he paints Paradise and Hell, according as I was thinking of the happiness of the elect who had the right to sit and read there undisturbed, or of the terror which my grandmother would have inspired in me if, in her insensibility to this sort of impression, she had asked me to go in there and wait for her by myself.
我听见我的祖母用一种人工的声音问他：“那么……你的罪名是什么？” 。 哦！ “对我小小的预算来说太高了，”在长凳上等待，我在自己意识的最深处寻求庇护，努力迁移到永恒思想的层面——不留下任何我自己的东西，不留下任何表面上生活和感受到的东西。我的身体像动物一样被麻醉，当它们受到攻击时，它们会通过抑制假装死亡，以免在这个地方遭受太强烈的痛苦，当我看到我对这个地方的熟悉时，我对这个地方的完全陌生变得更加明显。似乎在同一时刻，一位衣着光鲜的女士很享受这位经理，他对跟随她穿过大厅的小狗进行调戏，以表达对这位女士的尊重，这只年轻的“血统”帽子上插着一根羽毛，他问，当他进来时，“有信吗？”——对所有这些人来说，登上仿大理石楼梯就像回家一样。 与此同时，米诺斯、伊阿科斯和拉达曼托斯的三重皱眉（在这之下，我把我赤裸的灵魂投入到了一个未知的元素中，现在没有任何东西可以保护它）被一群绅士严厉地压在我身上，尽管他们也许不太懂接待的艺术，但却有“接待员”的头衔，而在他们的另一边，透过一堵封闭的玻璃墙，人们坐在阅览室里，我不得不借用这些描述但丁交替使用他描绘天堂和地狱的颜色，根据我正在思考的选民的幸福，他们有权不受干扰地坐在那里阅读，或者我的祖母会在我心中激起恐惧，如果她她对这种印象麻木不仁，让我自己进去等她。

My sense of loneliness was further increased a moment later: when I had confessed to my grandmother that I did not feel well, that I thought that we should be obliged to return to Paris, she had offered no protest, saying merely that she was going out to buy a few things which would be equally useful whether we left or stayed (and which, I afterwards learned, were all for my benefit, Françoise having gone off with certain articles which I might need); while I waited for her I had taken a turn through the streets, packed with a crowd of people who imparted to them a sort of indoor warmth, streets in which were still open the hairdresser’s shop and the pastry-cook’s, the latter filled with customers eating ices, opposite the statue of Duguay-Trouin. This crowd gave me just about as much pleasure as a photograph of it in one of the ‘illustrateds’ might give a patient who was turning its pages in the surgeon’s waiting-room. I was astonished to find that there were people so different from myself that this stroll through the town had actually been recommended to me by the manager as a distraction, and also that the torture chamber which a new place of residence is could appear to some people a ‘continuous amusement,’ to quote the hotel prospectus, which might, it was true, exaggerate, but was, for all that, addressed to a whole army of clients to whose tastes it must appeal. True, it invoked, to make them come to the Grand Hotel, Balbec, not only the ‘exquisite fare’ and the ‘fairy-like view across the Casino gardens,’ but also the ‘ordinances of her Majesty Queen Fashion, which no one may break with impunity, or without being taken for a Boeotian, a charge that no well-bred man would willingly incur.’ The need that I now had of my grandmother was enhanced by my fear that I had shattered another of her illusions. She must be feeling discouraged, feeling that if I could not stand the fatigue of this journey there was no hope that any change of air could ever do me good. I decided to return to the hotel and to wait for her there: the manager himself came forward and pressed a button, and a person whose acquaintance I had not yet made, labelled ‘LIFT’ (who at that highest point in the building, which corresponded to the lantern in a Norman church, was installed like a photographer in his darkroom or an organist in his loft) came rushing down towards me with the agility of a squirrel, tamed, active, caged. Then, sliding upwards again along a steel pillar, he bore me aloft in his train towards the dome of this temple of Mammon. On each floor, on either side of a narrow communicating stair, opened out fanwise a range of shadowy galleries, along one of which, carrying a bolster, a chambermaid came past. I lent to her face, which the gathering dusk made featureless, the mask of my most impassioned dreams of beauty, but read in her eyes as they turned towards me the horror of my own nonentity. Meanwhile, to dissipate, in the course of this interminable assent, the mortal anguish which I felt in penetrating thus in silence the mystery of this chiaroscuro so devoid of poetry, lighted by a single vertical line of little windows which were those of the solitary water-closet on each landing, I addressed a few words to the young organist, artificer of my journey and my partner in captivity, who continued to manipulate the registers of his instrument and to finger the stops. I apologised for taking up so much room, for giving him so much trouble, and asked whether I was not obstructing him in the practice of an art to which, so as to flatter the performer, I did more than display curiosity, I confessed my strong attachment. But he vouchsafed no answer, whether from astonishment at my words, preoccupation with what he was doing, regard for convention, hardness of hearing, respect for holy ground, fear of danger, slowness of understanding, or by the manager’s orders.
片刻之后，我的孤独感进一步加剧：当我向祖母坦白我感觉不舒服，我认为我们必须返回巴黎时，她没有提出任何抗议，只是说她要去出去买一些东西，无论我们离开还是留下，这些东西都同样有用（后来我才知道，这都是为了我的利益，弗朗索瓦丝带着我可能需要的某些物品走了）；当我等她的时候，我在街道上转了一圈，街上挤满了人，给他们带来了一种室内的温暖，街道上的理发店和糕点店还开着门，后者挤满了顾客。在 Duguay-Trouin 雕像对面吃冰。这群人给我带来的快乐，就像一张“插图”中的照片给外科医生候诊室里正在翻书的病人带来的快乐一样。我惊讶地发现，这里的人与我如此不同，以至于经理向我建议在镇上散步实际上是为了分散注意力，而且新居住地所在的酷刑室可能会对某些人产生影响用酒店招股说明书的话来说，这是一种“持续的娱乐”，诚然，招股说明书可能有些夸张，但尽管如此，它是针对一大批顾客的，必须迎合他们的口味。确实，它援引，让他们来到巴尔贝克大酒店，不仅是为了“精致的美食”和“横跨赌场花园的仙女般的景色”，而且是“女王陛下时尚的法令，这是任何人都没有的”。可以打破而不受惩罚，或者不会被视为维奥蒂亚人，这是任何有教养的人都不会愿意承担的指控。’现在我对祖母的需要更加强烈，因为我担心我已经粉碎了她的另一个幻想。她一定感到沮丧，觉得如果我不能忍受这段旅程的疲劳，那么任何空气的变化都不可能对我有好处。我决定返回酒店并在那里等她：经理亲自走上前来，按了一个按钮，然后是一个我尚未认识的人，贴着“电梯”的标签（他在大楼的最高点，相当于诺曼教堂里的灯笼，安装得就像摄影师在暗室里或管风琴家在阁楼里一样）以松鼠般的敏捷向我冲来，被驯服的、活跃的、被关在笼子里的。然后，他再次沿着一根钢柱向上滑行，带着我在他的火车上高高地走向这座玛门神庙的圆顶。每层楼上，在狭窄的连通楼梯的两侧，都呈扇形展开一系列阴暗的画廊，其中一个女服务员抱着一个抱枕走过。我把我最热情的美丽梦想的面具借给了她的脸，暮色渐浓，她的脸变得毫无特色，但当她转向我时，我从她的眼睛里读到了我自己的无足轻重的恐惧。与此同时，在这无休无止的同意过程中，驱散我在沉默中穿透这种明暗对比的神秘感时所感受到的致命痛苦，这种明暗对比如此缺乏诗意，被一排垂直的小窗户照亮，这些窗户是孤独的水的窗户-每次着陆时，我都会向年轻的风琴师、我的旅程的设计者和我被囚禁的伙伴说几句话，他继续操纵他的乐器的音域并拨动音栓。 我为占用了这么大的空间，给他带来了这么多麻烦而道歉，并问我是否在艺术实践中妨碍了他，为了讨好表演者，我所做的不仅仅是表现出好奇心，我承认了我的想法。强烈的依恋。但他没有回答我，可能是因为对我的话感到惊讶，全神贯注于他正在做的事情，尊重惯例，听力困难，尊重圣地，害怕危险，理解迟缓，或者是经理的命令。

There is perhaps nothing that gives us so strong an impression of the reality of the external world as the difference in the positions, relative to ourselves, of even a quite unimportant person before we have met him and after. I was the same man who had taken, that afternoon, the little train from Balbec to the coast, I carried in my body the same consciousness But on that consciousness, in the place where, at six o’clock, there had been, with the impossibility of forming any idea of the manager, the Grand Hotel or its occupants, a vague and timorous impatience for the moment at which I should reach my destination, were to be found now the pustules excised from the face of the cosmopolitan manager (he was, as a matter of fact, a naturalised Monégasque, although—as he himself put it, for he was always using expressions which he thought distinguished without noticing that they were incorrect—‘of Rumanian originality’), his action in ringing for the lift, the lift-boy himself, a whole frieze of puppet-show characters issuing from that Pandora’s box which was the Grand Hotel, undeniable, irremovable, and, like everything that is realised, sterilising. But at least this change, which I had done nothing to bring about, proved to me that something had happened which was external to myself—however devoid of interest that thing might be—and I was like a traveller who, having had the sun in his face when he started, concludes that he has been for so many hours on the road when he finds the sun behind him. I was half dead with exhaustion, I was burning with fever; I would gladly have gone to bed, but I had no night-things. I should have liked at least to lie down for a little while on the bed, but what good would that have done me, seeing that I should not have been able to find any rest there for that mass of sensations which is for each of us his sentient if not his material body, and that the unfamiliar objects which encircled that body, forcing it to set its perceptions on the permanent footing of a vigilant and defensive guard, would have kept my sight, my hearing, all my senses in a position as cramped and comfortless (even if I had stretched out my legs) as that of Cardinal La Balue in the cage in which he could neither stand nor sit. It is our noticing them that puts things in a room, our growing used to them that takes them away again and clears a space for us. Space there was none for me in my bedroom (mine in name only) at Balbec; it was full of things which did not know me, which flung back at me the distrustful look that I had cast at them, and, without taking any heed of my existence, shewed that I was interrupting the course of theirs. The clock—whereas at home I heard my clock tick only a few seconds in a week, when I was coming out of some profound meditation—continued without a moment’s interruption to utter, in an unknown tongue, a series of observations which must have been most uncomplimentary to myself, for the violet curtains listened to them without replying, but in an attitude such as people adopt who shrug their shoulders to indicate that the sight of a third person irritates them. They gave to this room with its lofty ceiling a semi-historical character which might have made it a suitable place for the assassination of the Duc de Guise, and afterwards for parties of tourists personally conducted by one of Messrs. Thomas Cook and Son’s guides, but for me to sleep in—no. I was tormented by the presence of some little bookcases with glass fronts which ran along the walls, but especially by a large mirror with feet which stood across one corner, for I felt that until it had left the room there would be no possibility of rest for me there. I kept raising my eyes—which the things in my room in Paris disturbed no more than did my eyelids themselves, for they were merely extensions of my organs, an enlargement of myself—towards the fantastically high ceiling of this belvedere planted upon the summit of the hotel which my grandmother had chosen for me; and in that region more intimate than those in which we see and hear, that region in which we test the quality of odours, almost in the very heart of my inmost self, the smell of flowering grasses next launched its offensive against my last feeble line of trenches, where I stood up to it, not without tiring myself still further, with the futile incessant defence of an anxious sniffing. Having no world, no room, no body now that was not menaced by the enemies thronging round me, invaded to the very bones by fever, I was utterly alone; I longed to die. Then my grandmother came in, and to the expansion of my ebbing heart there opened at once an infinity of space.
也许没有什么比一个非常不重​​要的人在我们遇见他之前和之后相对于我们自己的位置差异更能让我们对外部世界的现实产生如此强烈的印象了。我还是那天下午乘坐小火车从巴尔贝克到海岸的那个人，我的身体里带着同样的意识，但在那个意识上，在六点钟的地方，无法对经理、大酒店或它的住户形成任何想法，对到达目的地的那一刻感到模糊而胆怯的不耐烦，现在可以发现从国际化经理脸上切除的脓疱（他）事实上，他是一个归化的摩纳哥人，尽管——正如他自己所说，因为他总是使用他认为有区别的表达方式，却没有注意到它们是不正确的——“具有罗马尼亚的原创性”），他的行为是为了呼唤“罗马尼亚人的原创性”。电梯，电梯男孩本人，整个木偶戏人物的饰带从潘多拉的盒子里出来，也就是大酒店，不可否认，不可移动，而且，就像所有实现的东西一样，消毒。但至少这种我没有做任何事情带来的变化向我证明，发生了一些对我来说是外在的事情——无论那件事可能多么缺乏兴趣——而我就像一个旅行者，在阳光照射下当他出发时，当他发现太阳在他身后时，他的脸得出结论，他已经在路上走了这么多小时了。我累得半死，发烧得厉害；我很想上床睡觉，但我没有夜用物品。 我本想至少在床上躺一会儿，但这对我有什么好处，因为我无法在那里找到任何休息，因为我们每个人都有大量的感觉他的感知能力（如果不是他的物质身体），以及包围该身体的不熟悉的物体，迫使它将其感知建立在一个警惕和防御性守卫的永久立足点上，将使我的视觉，我的听觉，我所有的感官保持在一个位置就像红衣主教拉巴卢在笼子里一样狭窄和不舒服（即使我伸直了腿），他在笼子里既不能站也不能坐。正是我们注意到它们，才把东西放进了一个房间，而我们对它们的逐渐习惯，又把它们拿走了，为我们腾出了空间。巴尔贝克的我的卧室（只是名义上的）里没有我的空间。里面充满了不认识我的东西，它们向我投来了我向他们投来的怀疑的目光，并且完全不理会我的存在，表明我正在打断他们的进程。时钟——而在家里，当我从某种深刻的冥想中醒来时，我一周只听到时钟滴答几秒钟——继续不间断地用一种未知的语言说出一系列观察结果这对我自己来说是最不恭维的，因为紫罗兰色的窗帘听着他们说话，没有回答，但态度就像人们耸肩表示看到第三者会激怒他们一样。他们给这个有着高高天花板的房间赋予了半历史性的特征，这可能使它成为刺杀吉斯公爵的合适场所，然后又适合由一位先生亲自指挥的游客聚会。 托马斯·库克父子公司的指南，但要我睡懒觉——不。沿着墙壁延伸的一些带有玻璃面板的小书柜让我感到痛苦，尤其是角落里的一面带脚的大镜子，因为我觉得在它离开房间之前，我不可能休息。对我来说。我不停地抬起眼睛——我在巴黎房间里的东西对我的眼睑本身的干扰并不大，因为它们只是我器官的延伸，是我自己的放大——看向这个位于巴黎山顶的观景台高得令人难以置信的天花板。我祖母为我选择的旅馆；在那个比我们看到和听到的地方更亲密的地方，那个我们测试气味质量的地方，几乎在我内心最深处，花草的气味接下来向我最后的微弱线条发起了进攻战壕里，我站在那里，不停地焦急地嗅着，徒劳地防御，这让我更加疲惫。现在，没有世界，没有房间，没有身体，没有人不受到聚集在我周围的敌人的威胁，发烧侵入骨头，我完全孤独；我渴望死去。然后我的祖母进来了，我那颗正在消退的心立即打开了无限的空间。

She was wearing a loose cambric gown which she put on at home whenever any of us was ill (because she felt more comfortable in it, she used to say, for she always ascribed to her actions a selfish motive), and which was, for tending us, for watching by our beds, her servant’s livery, her nurse’s uniform, her religious habit. But whereas the trouble that servants, nurses, religious take, their kindness to us, the merits that we discover in them and the gratitude that we owe them all go to increase the impression that we have of being, in their eyes, some one different, of feeling that we are alone, keeping in our own hands the control over our thoughts, our will to live, I knew, when I was with my grandmother, that, however great the misery that there was in me, it would be received by her with a pity still more vast; that everything that was mine, my cares, my wishes, would be, in my grandmother, supported upon a desire to save and prolong my life stronger than was my own; and my thoughts were continued in her without having to undergo any deflection, since they passed from my mind into hers without change of atmosphere or of personality. And—like a man who tries to fasten his necktie in front of a glass and forgets that the end which he sees reflected is not on the side to which he raises his hand, or like a dog that chases along the ground the dancing shadow of an insect in the air—misled by her appearance in the body as we are apt to be in this world where we have no direct perception of people’s souls, I threw myself into the arms of my grandmother and clung with my lips to her face as though I had access thus to that immense heart which she opened to me. And when I felt my mouth glued to her cheeks, to her brow, I drew from them something so beneficial, so nourishing that I lay in her arms as motionless, as solemn, as calmly gluttonous as a babe at the breast.
她穿着一件宽松的麻布长袍，每当我们有人生病时，她都会在家里穿上它（她常说，因为她穿这件衣服感觉更舒服，因为她总是将自己的行为归因于自私的动机）。照顾我们，在我们的床边看守着她仆人的制服，她护士的制服，她的宗教习惯。但是，尽管仆人、护士、宗教人士所承受的麻烦、他们对我们的善意、我们在他们身上发现的优点以及我们对他们的感激之情，所有这些都增加了我们在他们眼中是一个不同的人的印象。感到我们是孤独的，把我们的思想、我们生存的意志的控制权掌握在自己手中，当我和祖母在一起时，我知道，无论我内心有多么大的痛苦，它都会被接受她怀着更大的怜悯；我的一切，我的忧虑，我的愿望，都将在我的祖母身上得到支持，她比我自己更强烈地渴望拯救和延长我的生命；我的思想在她身上继续存在，没有发生任何偏转，因为它们从我的思想传递到她的思想中，气氛和性格都没有改变。而且——就像一个人试图在玻璃前系好领带，但却忘记了他看到的反射端并不在他举起手的一侧，或者像一只狗沿着地面追赶舞动的影子空气中的一只昆虫——被她身体的外表所误导，因为我们很容易生活在这个我们无法直接感知人们灵魂的世界，我投入了祖母的怀抱，用嘴唇贴着她的脸，就像尽管我因此能够接触到她向我敞开的那颗巨大的心。 当我感觉到我的嘴粘在她的脸颊和额头上时，我从它们身上汲取了一些如此有益、如此滋养的东西，以至于我躺在她的怀里，一动不动，一动不动，一动不动，一动不动，一动不动，一动不动，一动也不动，像一个婴儿在乳房上平静地贪吃。

At last I let go, and lay and gazed, and could not tire of gazing at her large face, as clear in its outline as a fine cloud, glowing and serene, behind which I could discern the radiance of her tender love. And everything that received, in however slight a degree, any share of her sensations, everything that could be said to belong in any way to her was at once so spiritualised, so sanctified, that with outstretched hands I smoothed her dear hair, still hardly grey, with as much respect, precaution, comfort as if I had actually been touching her goodness. She found a similar pleasure in taking any trouble that saved me one, and in a moment of immobility and rest for my weary limbs something so delicious that when, having seen that she wished to help me with my undressing and to take my boots off, I made as though to stop her and began to undress myself, with an imploring gaze she arrested my hands as they fumbled with the top buttons of my coat and boots.
最后我松开了手，躺下来凝视着，不厌其烦地凝视着她那张大脸，轮廓清晰，如一朵精致的云彩，容光焕发，宁静祥和，在她的背后，我能看到她温柔的爱的光辉。所有受到她感觉影响的东西，无论程度有多么轻微，所有可以说以任何方式属于她的东西，都立刻变得如此灵性化，如此神圣化，以至于我伸出双手抚平她亲爱的头发，仍然几乎没有感觉。灰色，带着尽可能多的尊重、预防和安慰，就好像我真的触摸到了她的善良一样。她在不辞辛劳地帮我解围的过程中也找到了同样的乐趣，在我一动不动、让疲惫的四肢得到休息的那一刻，她发现了一种如此美味的东西，当她看到她想帮我脱衣服、脱掉靴子时，我似乎要阻止她，开始脱衣服，她用恳求的目光抓住了我的手，我的手正在摸索着我外套和靴子的最上面的纽扣。

‘Oh, do let me!’ she begged. ‘It is such a joy for your Granny. And be sure you knock on the wall if you want anything in the night. My bed is just on the other side, and the partition is, quite thin. Just give a knock now, as soon as you are ready, so that we shall know where we are.’
“噢，让我来吧！”她恳求道。 “这对你的奶奶来说真是太高兴了。如果你晚上想要什么，一定要敲墙。我的床就在另一边，隔断很薄。只要你准备好，现在就敲门，这样我们就知道我们在哪里。

And, sure enough, that evening I gave three knocks—a signal which, the week after, when I was ill, I repeated every morning for several days, because my grandmother wanted me to have some milk early. Then, when I thought that I could hear her stirring, so that she should not be kept waiting but might, the moment she had brought me the milk, go to sleep again, I ventured on three little taps, timidly, faintly, but for all that distinctly, for if I was afraid of disturbing her, supposing that I had been mistaken and that she was still asleep, I should not have wished her either to lie awake listening for a summons which she had not at once caught and which I should not have the courage to repeat. And scarcely had I given my taps than I heard three others, in a different intonation from mine, stamped with a calm authority, repeated twice over so that there should be no mistake, and saying to me plainly: ‘Don’t get excited; I heard you; I shall be with you in a minute!’ and shortly afterwards my grandmother appeared. I explained to her that I had been afraid that she would not hear me, or might think that it was some one in the room beyond who was lapping; at which she smiled:
果然，那天晚上我敲了三下门——一周后，当我生病的时候，我连续几天每天早上都重复这个信号，因为我的祖母想让我早点喝点牛奶。然后，当我以为我能听到她的动静，这样她就不会再等了，而是可以在她给我送牛奶的那一刻再次入睡时，我冒险轻轻地敲了三下，胆怯地，微弱地，但为了一切都很清楚，因为如果我害怕打扰她，假设我弄错了，她还在睡觉，我就不希望她醒着躺在床上听召唤，而她没有立即听到召唤，而我却没有听到召唤。不应该有勇气重复。我刚敲了几下，就听到另外三个人用与我不同的语调，带着冷静的权威，重复了两遍，以免出错，并清楚地对我说：“别激动；别激动，别激动。”我听到你了；我一会儿就来找你！”不久之后，我的祖母就出现了。我向她解释说，我担心她听不到我的声音，或者可能认为是房间里的某个人在拍打我；但她没有听到我的声音。她微笑着说：

‘Mistake my poor chick’s knocking for anyone else! Why, Granny could tell it among a thousand! Do you suppose there’s anyone else in the world who’s such a silly-billy, with such feverish little knuckles, so afraid of waking me up and of not making me understand? Even if he just gave the least scratch, Granny could tell her mouse’s sound at once, especially such a poor miserable little mouse as mine is. I could hear it just now, trying to make up its mind, and rustling the bedclothes, and going through all its tricks.’
‘误以为我可怜的小妞在敲别人的门！哎呀，奶奶能从一千个中分辨出来！你认为世界上还有谁像这样一个傻瓜，有着如此狂热的小指关节，如此害怕吵醒我，害怕不让我理解吗？即使他轻轻一抓，奶奶也能立刻说出老鼠的声音，尤其是像我这样可怜的小老鼠。我刚才就听见它在努力下定决心，让床单沙沙作响，并完成它所有的把戏。

She pushed open the shutters; where a wing of the hotel jutted out at right angles to my window, the sun was already installed upon the roof, like a slater who is up betimes, and starts early and works quietly so as not to rouse the sleeping town, whose stillness seems to enhance his activity. She told me what o’clock, what sort of day it was; that it was not worth while my getting up and coming to the window, that there was a mist over the sea; if the baker’s shop had opened yet; what the vehicle was that I could hear passing. All that brief, trivial curtain-raiser, that negligible introit of a new day, performed without any spectator, a little scrap of life which was only for our two selves, which I should have no hesitation in repeating, later on, to Françoise or even to strangers, speaking of the fog ‘which you could have cut with a knife at six o’clock that morning, with the ostentation of one who was boasting not of a piece of knowledge that he had acquired but of a mark of affection shewn to himself alone; dear morning moment, opened like a symphony by the rhythmical dialogue of my three taps, to which the thin wall of my bedroom, steeped in love and joy, grown melodious, immaterial, singing like the angelic choir, responded with three other taps, eagerly awaited, repeated once and again, in which it contrived to waft to me the soul of my grandmother, whole and perfect, and the promise of her coming, with a swiftness of annunciation and melodic accuracy. But on this first night after our arrival, when my grandmqther had left me, I began again to feel as I had felt, the day before, in Paris, at the moment of leaving home. Perhaps this fear that I had—and shared with so many of my fellow-men—of sleeping in a strange room, perhaps this fear is only the most humble, obscure, organic, almost unconscious form of that great and desperate resistance set up by the things that constitute the better part of our present life towards our mentally assuming, by accepting it as true, the formula of a future in which those things are to have no part; a resistance which was at the root of the horror that I had so often been made to feel by the thought that my parents must, one day, die, that the stern necessity of life might qblige me to live remote from Gilberte, or simply to settle permanently in a place where I should never see any of my old friends; a resistance which was also at the root of the difficulty that I found in imagining my own death, or a survival such as Bergotte used to promise to mankind in his books, a survival in which I should not be allowed to take with me my memories, my frailties, my character, which did not easily resign themselves to the idea of ceasing to be, and desired for me neither annihilation nor an eternity in which they would have no part.
她推开百叶窗；酒店的侧翼与我的窗户成直角，太阳已经挂在屋顶上，就像一个早起的板瓦工，早早起床，安静地干活，以免吵醒沉睡的小镇，它的寂静似乎以增强他的活跃度。她告诉我现在几点了，今天是什么样的日子；我不值得站起来走到窗前，海上笼罩着一层薄雾。面包店是否已经开门；我能听到驶过的那辆车是什么。所有那些简短、微不足道的揭幕仪式，新一天的微不足道的开头，在没有任何观众的情况下进行，是只属于我们两个人的生活的一小段片段，后来我会毫不犹豫地向弗朗索瓦丝或其他人重复这些内容。甚至对陌生人，谈到那天早上六点钟你可以用刀割开的雾气时，他的表现就像一个人，不是在吹嘘他所获得的知识，而是在吹嘘他所表现出的爱意。只为他自己；亲爱的早晨时刻，由我的三个水龙头有节奏的对话像交响乐一样打开，我卧室的薄墙沉浸在爱和欢乐中，变得悠扬，无形，像天使合唱团一样歌唱，用另外三个水龙头热切地回应等待着，一遍又一遍地重复着，它以迅捷的宣告和准确的旋律，向我飘来了我祖母完整而完美的灵魂，以及她即将到来的承诺。但在我们到达后的第一个晚上，当我的祖父离开我时，我又开始感受到前一天在巴黎离开家时的感觉。 也许这种恐惧是我所拥有的——并且与我的许多同胞一样——对睡在一个陌生的房间里，也许这种恐惧只是由那些构成我们现在生活的美好部分的事物，通过接受它为真实，我们在精神上假设了未来的公式，而这些事物将不再参与其中；这种抗拒是我经常感到恐惧的根源，因为我经常想到我的父母有一天会死去，生活的严峻需要可能迫使我住在远离希尔贝特的地方，或者只是为了生活。永久定居在一个我永远见不到任何老朋友的地方；这种抗拒也是我在想象自己的死亡或像贝戈特在他的书中向人类许诺的那样的生存时发现的困难的根源，在这种生存中我不应该被允许带走我的记忆我的弱点，我的性格，它们不会轻易屈服于不再存在的想法，它们既不希望我毁灭，也不希望它们永远消失。

When Swann had said to me, in Paris one day when I felt particularly unwell: ‘You ought to go off to one of those glorious islands in the Pacific; you’d never come back again if you did.’ I should have liked to answer: ‘But then I shall not see your daughter any more; I shall be living among people and things she has never seen.’ And yet my better judgment whispered: ‘What difference can that make, since you are not going to be affected by it? When M. Swann tells you that you will not come back he means by that that you will not want to come back, and if you don’t want to that is because you will be happier out there.’ For my judgment was aware that Habit—Habit which was even now setting to work to make me like this unfamiliar lodging, to change the position of the mirror, the shade of the curtains, to stop the clock—undertakes as well to make dear to us the companions whom at first we disliked, to give another appearance to their faces, to make attractive the sound of their voices, to modify the inclinations of their hearts. It is true that these new friendships for places and people are based upon forgetfulness of the old; but what my better judgment was thinking was simply that I could look without apprehension along the vista of a life in which I should be for ever separated from people all memory of whom I should lose, and it was by way of consolation that my mind was offering to my heart a promise of oblivion which succeeded only in sharpening the edge of its despair. Not that the heart also is not bound in time, when separation is complete, to feel the anodyne effect of habit; but until then it will continue to suffer. And our dread of a future in which we must forego the sight of faces, the sound of voices that we love, friends from whom we derive to-day our keenest joys, this dread, far from being dissipated, is intensified, if to the grief of such a privation we reflect that there will be added what seems to us now in anticipation an even more cruel grief; not to feel it as a grief at all—to remain indifferent; for if that should occur, our ego would have changed, it would then be not merely the attractiveness of our family, pur mistress, our friends that had ceased to environ us, but our affection for them; it would have been so completely eradicated from our heart, in which to-day it is a conspicuous element, that we should be able to enjoy that life apart from them the very thought of which to-day makes us recoil in horror; so that it would be in a real sense the death of ourselves, a death followed, it is true, by resurrection but in a different ego, the life, the love of which are beyond the reach of those elements of the existing ego that are doomed to die. It is they—even the meanest of them, such as our obscure attachments to the dimensions, to the atmosphere of a bedroom—that grow stubborn and refuse, in acts of rebellion which we must recognise to be a secret, partial, tangible and true aspect of our resistance to death, of the long resistance, desperate and daily renewed, to a fragmentary and gradual death such as interpolates itself throughout the whole course of our life, tearing away from us at every moment a shred of ourselves, dead matter on which new cells will multiply, and grow. And for a neurotic nature such as mine, one that is to say in which the intermediaries, the nerves, perform their functions badly—fail to arrest on its way to the consciousness, allow indeed to penetrate there, distinct, exhausting, innumerable, agonising, the plaint of those most humble elements of the personality which are about to disappear—the anxiety and alarm which I felt as I lay outstretched beneath that strange and too lofty ceiling were but the protest of an affection that survived in me for a ceiling that was familiar and low. Doubtless this affection too would disappear, and another have taken its place (when death, and then another life, would, in the guise of Habit, have performed their double task); but until its annihilation, every night it would suffer afresh, and on this first night especially, confronted with a future already realised in which there would no longer be any place for it, it rose in revolt, it tortured me with the sharp sound of its lamentations whenever my straining eyes, powerless to turn from what was wounding them, endeavoured to fasten their gaze upon that inaccessible ceiling.
有一天，当我在巴黎感觉特别不舒服时，斯旺对我说：“你应该去太平洋上那些美丽的岛屿之一；你应该去那里。”如果你回来了，你就再也不会回来了。”我本想回答：“但是那样我就再也见不到你的女儿了；我将生活在她从未见过的人和事之中。”然而我更好的判断低声说道：“既然你不会受到影响，那又能有什么区别呢？当斯旺先生告诉你你不会回来时，他的意思是你不会想回来，如果你不想回来，那是因为你在那里会更快乐。”因为我的判断意识到了这一点习惯——甚至现在开始的习惯，让我喜欢这个陌生的住所，改变镜子的位置，窗帘的阴影，停止时钟——也让我们对最初的同伴变得亲切。我们不喜欢让他们的面孔焕然一新，让他们的声音变得有吸引力，改变他们的内心倾向。诚然，这些对地方和人民的新友谊是建立在对旧有的遗忘的基础上的。但我更好的判断只是想到，我可以毫无忧虑地展望一种生活的前景，在这种生活中，我将永远与人们分离，我将失去对他们的所有记忆，而作为安慰，我的思想是向我的心提供了一个遗忘的承诺，但这只成功地加剧了它绝望的边缘。这并不是说，当分离完全时，心也无法及时地感受到习惯的镇痛效果；但在那之前它将继续遭受痛苦。 我们对未来的恐惧，在未来，我们必须放弃我们所爱的面孔、声音、我们从他们那里获得今天最强烈的快乐的朋友，这种恐惧非但没有消散，反而会加剧，如果我们认为，这种匮乏所带来的悲痛，在我们看来，未来还会有更残酷的悲痛。完全不要将其视为悲伤——保持冷漠；因为如果发生这种情况，我们的自我就会发生改变，那么我们的家人、情妇、朋友的吸引力就会不再包围我们，而且我们对他们的感情也将不再存在。它本来会从我们的心中彻底根除，而今天它是我们心中的一个显着元素，我们应该能够享受离开他们的生活，今天一想到这一点就让我们感到恐惧；因此，这将是真正意义上的我们自己的死亡，确实，死亡之后是复活，但在不同的自我中，生命和对它的爱超出了现有自我的那些元素的范围。注定要死。正是它们——即使是其中最卑鄙的，比如我们对尺寸、卧室气氛的模糊依恋——在我们必须承认是秘密的、片面的、有形的和真实的叛逆行为中变得顽固和拒绝。这是我们对死亡的抵抗的一个方面，是对一种零碎的、渐进的死亡的长期抵抗，绝望的、每日更新的抵抗，这种死亡贯穿我们整个生命的过程，每时每刻从我们身上撕下一丝我们自己，死亡的物质哪些新细胞会繁殖和生长。 对于像我这样的神经症性质来说，也就是说，中间媒介，神经，履行其功能很差——未能阻止其进入意识的过程，实际上允许渗透到那里，明显的，令人筋疲力尽的，无数的，令人痛苦的那些即将消失的人格中最卑微的元素的哀叹——当我躺在那奇怪而太高的天花板下时，我感到焦虑和惊慌，但这只是我内心对天花板的一种感情的抗议。熟悉而低沉。毫无疑问，这种情感也会消失，取而代之的是另一种情感（当死亡，然后是另一种生命，会以习惯的名义完成它们的双重任务时）；但直到它毁灭之前，每天晚上它都会重新受苦，尤其是在第一个晚上，面对一个已经实现的未来，其中不再有它的容身之地，它奋起反抗，用尖锐的声音折磨着我。每当我紧张的眼睛无法从伤害他们的事物上移开，并努力将目光锁定在那难以接近的天花板上时，它就会发出哀叹。

But next morning!—after a servant had come to call me, and had brought me hot water, and while I was washing and dressing myself and trying in vain to find the things that I wanted in my trunk, from which I extracted, pell-mell, only a lot of things that were of no use whatever, what a joy it was to me, thinking already of the delights of luncheon and of a walk along the shore, to see in the window, and in all the glass fronts of the bookcases as in the portholes of a ship’s cabin, the open sea, naked, unshadowed, and yet with half of its expanse in shadow, bounded by a thin and fluctuant line, and to follow with my eyes the waves that came leaping towards me, one behind another, like divers along a springboard. Every other moment, holding in one hand the starched, unyielding towel, with the name of the hotel printed upon it, with which I was making futile efforts to dry myself, I returned to the window to gaze once more upon that vast amphitheatre, dazzling, mountainous, and upon the snowy crests of its emerald waves, here and there polished and translucent, which with a placid violence, a leonine bending of the brows, let their steep fronts, to which the sun now added a smile without face or features, run forward to their goal, totter and melt and be no more. Window in which I was, henceforward, to plant myself every morning, as at the pane of a mail coach in which one has slept, to see whether, in the night, a long sought mountain-chain has come nearer or withdrawn—only here it was those hills of the sea which, before they come dancing back towards us, are apt to retire so far that often it was only at the end of a long and sandy plain that I would distinguish, miles it seemed away, their first undulations upon a background transparent, vaporous, bluish, like the glaciers that one sees in the backgrounds of the Tuscan Primitives. On other mornings it was quite close at hand that the sun was smiling upon those waters of a green as tender as that preserved in Alpine pastures (among mountains on which the sun spreads himself here and there like a lazy giant who may at any moment come leaping gaily down their craggy sides) less by the moisture of their soil than by the liquid mobility of their light. Anyhow, in that breach which shore and water between them drive through all the rest of the world, for the passage, the accumulation there of light, it is light above all, according to the direction from which it comes and along which our eyes follow it, it is light that shifts and fixes the undulations of the sea. Difference of lighting modifies no less the orientation of a place, constructs no less before our eyes new goals which it inspires in us the yearning to attain, than would a distance in space actually traversed in the course of a long journey. When, in the morning, the sun came from behind the hotel, disclosing to me the sands bathed in light as far as the first bastions of the sea, it seemed to be shewing me another side of the picture, and to be engaging me in the pursuit, along the winding path of its rays, of a journey motionless but ever varied amid all the fairest scenes of the diversified landscape of the hours. And on this first morning the sun pointed out to me far off with a jovial finger those blue peaks of the sea, which bear no name upon any geographer’s chart, until, dizzy with its sublime excursion over the thundering and chaotic surface of their crests and avalanches, it came back to take shelter from the wind in my bedroom, swaggering across the unmade bed and scattering its riches over the splashed surface of the basin-stand, and into my open trunk, where by its very splendour and ill-matched luxury it added still further to the general effect of disorder. Alas, that wind from the sea; an hour later, in the great dining-room—while we were having our luncheon, and from the leathern gourd of a lemon were sprinkling a few golden drops on to a pair of soles which presently left on our plates the plumes of their picked skeletons, curled like stiff feathers and resonant as citherns,—it seemed to my grandmother a cruel deprivation not to be able to feel its life-giving breath on her cheek, on account of the window, transparent but closed, which like the front of a glass case in a museum divided us from the beach while allowing us to look out upon its whole extent, and into which the sky entered so completely that its azure had the effect of being the colour of the windows and its white clouds only so many flaws in the glass. Imagining that I was ‘seated upon the mole’ or at rest in the ‘boudoir’ of which Baudelaire speaks I asked myself whether his ‘Sun’s rays upon the sea’ were not—a very different thing from the evening ray, simple and superficial as the wavering stroke of a golden pencil—just what at that moment was scorching the sea topaz-brown, fermenting it, turning it pale and milky like foaming beer, like milk, while now and then there hovered over it great blue shadows which some god seemed, for his pastime, to be shifting to and fro by moving a mirror in the sky. Unfortunately, it was not only in its outlook that it differed from our room at Combray, giving upon the houses over the way, this dining-room at Balbec, bare-walled, filled with a sunlight green as the water in a marble font, while a few feet away the full tide and broad daylight erected as though before the gates of the heavenly city an indestructible and moving rampart of emerald and gold. At Combray, since we were known to everyone, I took heed of no one. In life at the seaside one knows only one’s own party. I was not yet old enough, I was still too sensitive to have outgrown the desire to find favour in the sight of other people and to possess their hearts. Nor had I acquired the more noble indifference which a man of the world would have felt, with regard to the people who were eating their luncheon in the room, nor to the boys and girls who strolled past the window, with whom I was pained by the thought that I should never be allowed to go on expeditions, though not so much pained as if my grandmother, contemptuous of social formalities and concerned about nothing but my health, had gone to them with the request, humiliating for me to overhear, that they would consent to let me accompany them. Whether they were returning to some villa beyond my ken, or had emerged from it, racquet in hand, on their way to some lawn-tennis court, or were mounted on horses whose hooves trampled and tore my heart, I gazed at them with a passionate curiosity, in that blinding light of the beach by which social distinctions are altered, I followed all their movements through the transparency of that great bay of glass which allowed so much light to flood the room. But it intercepted the wind, and this seemed wrong to my grandmother, who, unable to endure the thought that I was losing the benefit of an hour in the open air, surreptitiously unlatched a pane and at once set flying, with the bills of fare, the newspapers, veils and hats of all the people at the other tables; she herself, fortified by the breath of heaven, remained calm and smiling like Saint Blandina, amid the torrent of invective which, increasing my sense of isolation and misery, those scornful, dishevelled, furious visitors combined to pour on us.
但是第二天早上！——一个仆人来叫我，给我送来热水，当我洗澡、穿衣，徒劳地试图在我的行李箱里找到我想要的东西时，我从里面取出了， -嗯，只有很多毫无用处的东西，这对我来说是多么快乐啊，已经想到了午餐的乐趣和沿着海岸散步的乐趣，想到了窗外和所有玻璃幕墙的景色书柜就像船舱的舷窗一样，开阔的大海，赤裸裸的，没有阴影，但它的一半广阔在阴影中，被一条细细而波动的线所包围，我的眼睛跟随跃动而来的波浪我一个接一个，就像跳板上的跳水运动员一样。每隔一段时间，我就会一手握着那条硬邦邦、硬邦邦的毛巾，上面印着旅馆的名字，我正试图用它擦干身体，但徒劳无功，我又回到窗前，再次凝视那座令人眼花缭乱的巨大圆形剧场。山峦叠翠，翠绿的波峰上雪白的波峰上，到处都是光亮的、半透明的，它们带着一种平静的暴力，狮子般的眉毛弯曲，让它们陡峭的正面，现在太阳给它们增添了一个没有面孔或特征的微笑，奔向他们的目标，摇摇欲坠，融化，然后不再存在。 从此以后，我每天早上都要站在这扇窗户里，就像站在睡过的邮车的玻璃窗前一样，看看夜里，一条寻找已久的山脉是否已经靠近或撤退——只有在这里正是那些海中的山丘，在向我们翩翩起舞之前，往往会退到很远的地方，以至于常常只有在长长的沙质平原的尽头，我才能辨别出它们最初的起伏，似乎有数英里之遥。背景是透明的、雾状的、蓝色的，就像托斯卡纳原始背景中看到的冰川一样。在其他早晨，太阳近在咫尺，微笑着照耀着绿色的水面，就像阿尔卑斯牧场保留下来的温柔一样（在山间，阳光到处散布，就像一个懒惰的巨人，随时可能出现）欢快地从崎岖的侧面跳跃下来）与其说是因为土壤的水分，不如说是因为它们光线的液体流动性。无论如何，在它们之间的海岸和水域穿过世界其他地方的缺口中，光的通道和积累，它首先是光，根据它来的方向和我们眼睛跟踪的方向它，是光改变并固定了大海的起伏。照明的差异不仅改变了一个地方的方向，在我们眼前构建了新的目标，激发了我们对实现的渴望，就像长途旅行过程中实际穿越的空间距离一样。 早晨，当阳光从酒店后面射出，向我展示沐浴在阳光下的沙滩，远至大海的第一座堡垒时，它似乎向我展示了画面的另一面，并让我着迷。沿着它的光线蜿蜒的路径，追求一段静止的旅程，但在时刻多样化的风景中所有最美丽的场景中不断变化。在这第一天早晨，太阳用快乐的手指向我远远地指着那些蓝色的海峰，这些山峰在任何地理学家的图表上都没有名字，直到，太阳在雷鸣般、混乱的峰顶上进行壮丽的旅行，让我头晕目眩。雪崩之后，它又回到我的卧室里避风，大摇大摆地走过那张凌乱的床，把它的财富撒在洗脸盆架溅满水的表面上，然后进入我敞开的行李箱，那里非常华丽，奢华得不成样子。它进一步加剧了混乱的总体影响。唉，那风是从海上吹来的；一个小时后，在大餐厅里，当我们正在吃午饭时，柠檬皮葫芦上滴了几滴金色的水滴到一双鞋底上，很快，我们的盘子上就留下了他们挑选的骷髅的羽毛。 ，像僵硬的羽毛一样卷曲，像柳树一样响亮，——对我的祖母来说，由于窗户透明但关闭，她的脸颊上无法感受到它赋予生命的气息，这似乎是一种残酷的剥夺，因为窗户是透明的，但关闭着，就像一扇窗户的正面一样。博物馆的玻璃柜将我们与海滩隔开，同时让我们能够看到整个海滩，天空完全融入其中，蔚蓝的天空就像窗户的颜色，而白云只有那么多的瑕疵在玻璃里。 想象着我“坐在鼹鼠上”，或者在波德莱尔所说的“闺房”中休息，我问自己，他的“阳光照在海上”是否不是一种与傍晚光线截然不同的东西，简单而肤浅，就像金色铅笔摇曳的笔触——正是那一刻正在将海黄玉烤焦，使其发酵，使其变得苍白和乳白色，像泡沫啤酒，像牛奶，而时不时地，在它上面盘旋着巨大的蓝色阴影，某些上帝为了消遣，他似乎通过移动天空中的一面镜子来回移动。不幸的是，它不仅在它的外观上与我们在贡布雷的房间不同，在巴尔贝克的这间餐厅，光秃秃的墙壁，充满了阳光绿色，就像大理石字体的水一样，几英尺外，汹涌的潮水和光天化日之下，仿佛在天城的大门前竖起一座坚不可摧的、移动的翡翠和金色的壁垒。在贡布雷，由于我们人尽皆知，所以我没有理会任何人。在海边的生活中，一个人只认识自己的一方。我还不够大，我还太敏感，无法摆脱想要博得别人青睐、占有别人心的欲望。对于那些在房间里吃午饭的人，或者那些从窗前走过的男孩女孩，我也没有表现出一个有教养的人会感受到的更高尚的冷漠，与他们在一起我感到痛苦。想到永远不应该允许我去探险，虽然不像我的祖母那么痛苦，她蔑视社交礼仪，只关心我的健康，向他们提出了这个要求，让我无意中听到了这件事，这让我感到羞辱，他们会同意让我陪他们。 无论他们是要返回我视野之外的某个别墅，还是从别墅里出来，手里拿着球拍，前往某个草地网球场，或者骑着马，马蹄践踏着我的心，我用一种审视的目光注视着他们。出于强烈的好奇心，在海滩那令人眼花缭乱的灯光下，社会的区别被改变了，我透过那扇透明的大玻璃窗追踪着他们的所有动作，这让如此多的光线淹没了房间。但它挡住了风，这对我的祖母来说似乎是错误的，她无法忍受我正在失去在露天的一个小时的好处，偷偷地打开了窗子，立即带着票价飞走了。 ，其他桌子上所有人的报纸、面纱和帽子；她自己，在天堂的气息中得到加强，像圣布兰迪娜一样保持平静和微笑，在谩骂的洪流中，这些谩骂的洪流增加了我的孤立感和痛苦，那些轻蔑的，衣衫不整的，愤怒的访客联合起来倾倒在我们身上。

To a certain extent—and this, at Balbec, gave to the population, as a rule monotonously rich and cosmopolitan, of that sort of smart and ‘exclusive’ hotel, a quite distinctive local character—they were composed of eminent persons from the departmental capitals of that region of France, a chief magistrate from Caen, a leader of the Cherbourg bar, a big solicitor from Le Mans, who annually, when the holidays came round, starting from the various points over which, throughout the working year, they were scattered like snipers in a battle or draughtsmen upon a board, concentrated their forces upon this hotel. They always reserved the same rooms, and with their wives, who had pretensions to aristocracy, formed a little group, which was joined by a leading barrister and a leading doctor from Paris, who on the day of their departure would say to the others:
在某种程度上——在巴尔贝克，这给那些通常单调富有和国际化的人们一种聪明而“独特”的酒店带来了一种相当独特的地方特色——他们由来自部门的杰出人士组成。法国那个地区的首府，来自卡昂的首席法官，瑟堡律师协会的领导者，来自勒芒的大律师，每年假期到来时，他们都会从整个工作年中的各个点出发，像战斗中的狙击手或木板上的制图员一样分散，将兵力集中到了这家酒店。他们总是保留同样的房间，并与自命为贵族的妻子组成一个小团体，其中有一位来自巴黎的著名律师和一位著名医生，他们在离开的那天会对其他人说：

‘Oh, yes, of course; you don’t go by our train. You are fortunate, you will be home in time for luncheon.’
'哦，是的，当然;你不坐我们的火车。你很幸运，你会准时回家吃午饭。”

‘Fortunate, do you say? You, who live in the Capital, in ‘Paris, the great town,’ while I have to live in a wretched county town of a hundred thousand souls (it is true, we managed to muster a hundred and two thousand at the last census, but what is that compared to your two and a half millions?) going back, too, to asphalt streets and all the bustle and gaiety of Paris life?’
‘你说幸运吗？你住在首都，住在“伟大的城市巴黎”，而我却住在一个拥有十万灵魂的悲惨县城（是的，我们在上次人口普查中设法聚集了十万两千人） ，但与你的二百五十万相比，这算什么？）也回到柏油马路和巴黎生活的喧嚣和欢乐？

They said this with a rustic burring of their r’s, but without bitterness, for they were leading lights each in his own province, who could like other people have gone to Paris had they chosen—the chief magistrate of Caen had several times been offered a judgeship in the Court of Appeal—but had preferred to stay where they were, from love of their native towns or of obscurity or of fame, or because they were reactionaries, and enjoyed being on friendly terms with the country houses of the neighbourhood. Besides several of them were not going back at once to their county towns.
他们说这话时，带着乡土般的“r”音，但没有任何怨恨，因为他们每个人都是自己省份的领军人物，如果他们选择的话，他们可以像其他人一样去巴黎——卡昂的首席法官曾多次被邀请去巴黎。上诉法院的法官职位——但出于对家乡的热爱，或者出于对默默无闻或名声的热爱，或者因为他们是反动派，并且喜欢与附近的乡间别墅保持友好关系，他们宁愿留在原地。而且他们中的几个人并没有立即返回县城。

For—inasmuch as the Bay of Balbec was a little world apart in the midst of a great world, a basketful of the seasons in which were clustered in a ring good days and bad, and the months in their order, so that not only, on days when one could make out Rivebelle, which was in itself a sign of coming storms, could one see the sunlight on the houses there while Balbec was plunged in darkness, but later on, when the cold weather had reached Balbec, one could be certain of finding on that opposite shore two or three supplementary months of warmth—those of the regular visitors to the Grand Hotel whose holidays began late or lasted long, gave orders, when rain and fog came and Autumn was in the air, for their boxes to be packed and embarked, and set sail across the Bay to find summer again at Rivebelle or Costedor. This little group in the Balbec hotel looked with distrust upon each new arrival, and while affecting to take not the least interest in him, hastened, all of them, to ply with questions their friend the head waiter. For it was the same head waiter—Aimé—who returned every year for the season, and kept their tables for them; and their good ladies, having heard that his wife was ‘expecting,’ would sit after meals working each at one of the ‘little things,’ stopping only to put up their glasses and stare at us, my grandmother and myself, because we were eating hard-boiled eggs in salad, which was considered common, and was, in fact, ‘not done’ in the best society of Alençon. They affected an attitude of contemptuous irony with regard to a Frenchman who was called ‘His Majesty’ and had indeed proclaimed himself King of a small island in the South Seas, inhabited by a few savages. He was staying in the hotel with his pretty mistress, whom, as she crossed the beach to bathe, the little boys would greet with ‘Three cheers for the Queen!’ because she would reward them with a shower of small silver. The chief magistrate and the barrister went so far as to pretend not to see her, and if any of their friends happened to look at her, felt bound to warn him that she was only a little shop-girl.
因为——因为巴尔贝克湾是一个大世界中的一个小世界，一篮子季节聚集在一个环中，好日子和坏日子，以及月份的顺序，因此，不仅，在人们能辨认出里维贝尔的日子里，这本身就是暴风雨即将来临的征兆，人们可以看到阳光照在那里的房屋上，而巴尔贝克则陷入黑暗，但后来，当寒冷的天气到达巴尔贝克时，人们就可以看到那里的阳光。肯定会在对岸找到两三个月的温暖补充——那些假期开始较晚或持续时间较长的大酒店的常客，在雨雾来临时，空气中弥漫着秋天的气息时，下令为他们的箱子取货。收拾好行李，上船，扬帆穿越海湾，去里维贝尔或科斯特多再次寻找夏天。巴尔贝克旅馆里的这一小群人对每一个新来的人都充满了不信任，虽然假装对他没有丝毫兴趣，但所有人都赶紧向他们的朋友、领班提出问题。因为每年当季的时候，那位侍者领班艾梅都会回来，为他们保留餐桌。他们的好女士们，听说他的妻子正在“怀孕”，饭后就会坐下来，各自做一件“小事”，只是停下来，举起眼镜，盯着我们，我的祖母和我自己，因为我们在沙拉中吃煮鸡蛋，这被认为是常见的，事实上，在阿朗松最好的社会中“没有这样做”。他们对一个被称为“陛下”的法国人表现出一种轻蔑的讽刺态度，他确实宣称自己是南海一个小岛上的国王，岛上居住着一些野蛮人。 他和他漂亮的情妇住在旅馆里，当她穿过海滩去洗澡时，小男孩们会用“为女王干杯三声！”来打招呼，因为她会奖励他们一大笔小银子。首席法官和大律师竟然假装没有看到她，如果他们的朋友碰巧看到她，就不得不警告他，她只是一个小女店员。

‘But I was told that at Ostend they used the royal bathing machine.’
“但我听说奥斯坦德他们使用皇家沐浴机。”

‘Well, and why not? It’s on hire for twenty francs. You can take it yourself, if you care for that sort of thing. Anyhow, I know for a fact that the fellow asked for an audience, when he was there, with the King, who sent back word that he took no cognisance of any Pantomime Princes.’ ‘Really, that’s interesting! What queer people there are in the world, to be sure!’
‘好吧，为什么不呢？它的租金是二十法郎。如果你关心这类事情，你可以自己拿走。不管怎样，我确实知道，当他在那里的时候，那个家伙要求觐见国王，国王回信说他没有认识到任何哑剧王子。” “真的，这很有趣！可以肯定的是，世界上有多么奇怪的人啊！

And I dare say it was all quite true: but it was also from resentment of the thought that, to many of their fellow-visitors, they were themselves simply respectable but rather common people who did not know this King and Queen so prodigal with their small change, that the solicitor, the magistrate, the barrister, when what they were pleased to call the ‘Carnival’ went by, felt so much annoyance, and expressed aloud* an indignation that was quite understood by their friend the head waiter who, obliged to shew proper civility to these generous if not authentic Sovereigns, still, while he took their orders, would dart from afar at his old patrons a covert but speaking glance. Perhaps there was also something of the same resentment at being erroneously supposed to be less and unable to explain that they were more smart, underlining the ‘fine specimen’ with which they qualified a young ‘blood,’ the consumptive and dissipated son of an industrial magnate, who appeared every day in a new suit of clothes with an orchid in his buttonhole, drank champagne at luncheon, and then strolled out of the hotel, pale, impassive, a smile of complete indifference on his lips, to the casino to throw away at the baccarat table enormous sums, ‘which he could ill afford to lose,’ as the solicitor said with a resigned air to the chief magistrate, whose wife had it ‘on good authority’ that this ‘detrimental’ young man was bringing his parents’ grey hair in sorrow to the grave.
我敢说这一切都是千真万确的：但这也是出于对这样一种想法的不满：对于他们的许多同胞来说，他们自己只是受人尊敬的普通人，他们不知道这位国王和王后如此挥霍他们的财产。小小的变化，律师，地方法官，大律师，当他们高兴地称之为“狂欢节”的时候，感到非常烦恼，并大声表达*一种愤慨，他们的朋友，服务员领班，非常理解他，他有义务对这些慷慨的君主表现出适当的礼貌，即使不是真正的君主，但当他接受他们的命令时，他仍然会从远处向他的老顾客投去一个隐蔽但有说服力的眼神。也许也有一些同样的怨恨，因为人们错误地认为他们更聪明，而且无法解释他们更聪明，强调了他们对年轻“血液”的“优良样本”，即工业家的肺痨病和放荡的儿子。每天穿着一身新衣服，纽扣孔里插着一朵兰花的大亨，午餐时喝了香槟，然后漫步走出酒店，脸色苍白，面无表情，嘴角挂着完全漠然的微笑，去赌场扔律师带着无奈的神情对首席法官说，他在百家乐赌桌上损失了巨额资金，“他无法承受损失”。父母白发苍苍，悲痛至死。

On the other hand, the barrister and his friends could not exhaust their flow of sarcasm on the subject of a wealthy old lady of title, because she never moved anywhere without taking her whole household with her. Whenever the wives of the solicitor and the magistrate saw her in the dining-room at meal-times they put up their glasses and gave her an insolent scrutiny, as minute and distrustful as if she had been some dish with a pretentious name but a suspicious appearance which, after the negative result of a systematic study, must be sent away with a lofty wave of the hand and a grimace of disgust.
另一方面，大律师和他的朋友们对一位富有的有头衔的老太太的讽刺却无法穷尽，因为她从不带着全家人一起搬到任何地方。每当律师和地方法官的妻子们在饭厅里吃饭时看到她，她们就会举起酒杯，傲慢地审视她，细致而怀疑，仿佛她是一道名字自命不凡但可疑的菜肴。经过系统研究得出否定结果后，必须用高高的挥手和厌恶的鬼脸将其打发走。

No doubt by this behaviour they meant only to shew that, if there were things in the world which they themselves lacked—in this instance, certain prerogatives which the old lady enjoyed, and the privilege of her acquaintance—it was not because they could not, but because they did not choose to acquire them. But they had succeeded in convincing themselves that this really was what they felt; and it was the suppression of all desire for, of all curiosity as to forms of life which were unfamiliar, of all hope of pleasing new people (for which, in the women, had been substituted a feigned contempt, an artificial brightness) that had the awkward result of obliging them to label their discontent satisfaction, and lie everlastingly to themselves, for which they were greatly to be pitied. But everyone else in the hotel was no doubt behaving in a similar fashion, though his behaviour might take a different form, and sacrificing, if not to self-importance, at any rate to certain inculcated principles and mental habits the thrilling delight of mixing in a strange kind of life. Of course, the atmosphere of the microcosm in which the old lady isolated herself was not poisoned with virulent bitterness, as was that of the group in which the wives of the solicitor and magistrate sat chattering with impotent rage. It was indeed embalmed with a delicate and old-world fragrance which, however, was none the less artificial. For at heart the old lady would probably have found in attracting, in attaching to herself (and, with that object, recreating herself), the mysterious sympathy of new friends a charm which is altogether lacking from the pleasure that is to be derived from mixing only with the people of one’s own world, and reminding oneself that, one’s own being the best of all possible worlds, the ill-informed contempt of ‘outsiders’ may be disregarded. Perhaps she felt that—were she to arrive incognito at the Grand Hotel, Balbec, she would, in her black stuff gown and old-fashioned bonnet, bring a smile to the lips of some old reprobate, who from the depths of his rocking chair would glance up and murmur, ‘What a scarecrow!’ or, still worse, to those of some man of repute who bad, like the magistrate, kept between his pepper-and-salt whiskers a rosy complexion and a pair of sparkling eyes such as she liked to see, and would at once bring the magnifying lens of the conjugal glasses to bear upon so quaint a phenomenon; and perhaps it was in unconfessed dread of those first few minutes, which, though one knows that they will be but a few minutes, are none the less terrifying, like the first plunge of one’s head under water, that this old lady sent down in advance a servant, who would inform the hotel of the personality and habits of his mistress, and, cutting short the manager’s greetings, made, with an abruptness in which there was more timidity than pride, for her room, where her own curtains, substituted for those that draped the hotel windows, her own screens and photographs, set up so effectively between her and the outside world, to which otherwise she would have had to adapt herself, the barrier of her private life that it was her home (in which she had comfortably stayed) that travelled rather than herself.
毫无疑问，他们的这种行为只是想表明，如果世界上有他们自己所缺乏的东西——在这个例子中，就是老太太享有的某些特权，以及与她相识的特权——那并不是因为他们不能，而是因为他们没有选择获取它们。但他们成功地说服了自己，这就是他们的感受。正是对所有对不熟悉的生活形式的欲望、所有好奇心、所有取悦新人的希望的抑制（在妇女中，这已被一种假装的轻蔑、一种人为的光明所取代），迫使他们把自己的不满贴上满足的标签，并永远对自己撒谎，这是一个尴尬的结果，为此他们非常可怜。但旅馆里的其他人无疑也以类似的方式行事，尽管他的行为可能采取不同的形式，并且即使不是为了自负，至少也为了某些灌输的原则和心理习惯而牺牲了融入其中的令人兴奋的乐趣。一种奇怪的生活。当然，老妇人与世隔绝的微观世界的气氛并没有像律师和地方法官的妻子们坐在那里喋喋不休、无能为力的愤怒那样，被恶毒的苦毒所毒害。它确实涂有一种精致而古老的香味，但仍然是人造的。 因为在内心深处，老妇人可能会发现，在吸引、依恋自己（并且通过这个对象，重新创造自己）时，新朋友的神秘同情心是一种魅力，而这种魅力是从混合中获得的快乐所完全缺乏的。只与自己世界的人相处，并提醒自己，自己的世界是所有可能的世界中最好的，“外人”的无知蔑视可以被忽视。也许她觉得——如果她隐姓埋名地来到巴尔贝克大酒店，她会穿着黑色长袍，戴着老式帽子，给某个坐在摇椅深处的老恶棍的嘴角带来微笑。会抬起头，低声说道：“真是个稻草人！”或者，更糟糕的是，对于那些有名望的人来说，他们像地方法官一样，在他的胡椒和盐胡须之间保持着红润的肤色和一双闪闪发光的眼睛，就像她喜欢看到的那样，并且会立即带来结婚眼镜的放大镜竟然能呈现如此奇特的现象；或许正是因为对最初几分钟的不言而喻的恐惧，尽管人们知道那只是几分钟，但仍然令人恐惧，就像一个人的头第一次浸入水中一样，这位老太太在提前派一名仆人向酒店通报女主人的性格和习惯，并打断经理的问候，以胆怯多于骄傲的态度，突然进入她的房间，用她自己的窗帘代替。对于那些遮住酒店窗户的人来说，她自己的屏幕和照片，有效地将她和外部世界隔开，否则她将不得不适应这些，这是她私人生活的障碍，因为这是她的家（其中她舒适地留下来）旅行而不是她自己。

Thenceforward, having placed between herself, on the one hand, and the staff of the hotel and its decorators on the other the servants who bore instead of her the shock of contact with all this strange humanity, and kept up around their mistress her familiar atmosphere, having set her prejudices between herself and the other visitors, indifferent whether or not she gave offence to people whom her friends would not have had in their houses, it was in her own world that she continued to live, by correspondence with her friends, by memories, by her intimate sense of and confidence in her own position, the quality of her manners, the competence of her politeness. And every day, when she came downstairs to go for a drive in her own carriage, the lady’s-maid who came after her carrying her wraps, the footman who preceded her, seemed like sentries who, at the gate of an embassy, flying the flag of the country to which she belonged, assured to her upon foreign soil the privilege of extra-territoriality. She did not leave her room until late in the afternoon on the day following our arrival, so that we did not see her in the dining-room, into which the manager, since we were strangers there, conducted us, taking us under his wing, as a corporal takes a squad of recruits to the master-tailor, to have them fitted; we did see however, a moment later, a country gentleman and his daughter, of an obscure but very ancient Breton family, M. and Mlle, de Stermaria, whose table had been allotted to us, in the belief that they had gone out and would not be back until the evening. Having come to Balbec only to see various country magnates whom they knew in that neighbourhood, they spent in the hotel dining-room, what with the invitations they accepted and the visits they paid, only such time as was strictly unavoidable. It was their stiffness that preserved them intact from all human sympathy, from interesting at all the strangers seated round about them, among whom M. de Stermaria kept up the glacial, preoccupied, distant, rude, punctilious and distrustful air that we assume in a railway refreshment-room, among fellow-passengers whom we have never seen before and will never see again, and with whom we can conceive of no other relations than to defend from their onslaught our ‘portion’ of cold chicken and our corner seat in the train. No sooner had we begun our luncheon than we were asked to leave the table, on the instructions of M. de Stermaria who had just arrived and, without the faintest attempt at an apology to us, requested the head waiter, in our hearing, to ‘see that such a mistake did not occur again,’ for it was repugnant to him that ‘people whom he did not know’ should have taken his table.
从那时起，她一方面与酒店的工作人员及其装潢师之间放置了仆人，他们代替她承受与所有这些奇怪的人性接触的震惊，并在他们的女主人周围保持着她熟悉的气氛她对自己和其他来访者抱有偏见，不管她是否冒犯了那些她的朋友不会在他们家里出现的人，她都不在乎，通过与朋友的书信往来，她继续生活在她自己的世界里，通过记忆，通过她对自己地位的亲密感和信心，通过她的举止品质，通过她的礼貌能力。每天，当她下楼驾着自己的马车去兜风时，跟在她后面提着包裹的女仆，走在她前面的男仆，就像是在大使馆门口飞翔着飞机的哨兵。她所属国家的国旗，向她保证在外国领土上享有治外法权的特权。直到我们到达后的第二天下午晚些时候，她才离开房间，因此我们没有在餐厅里看到她，经理因为我们在那里是陌生人，所以带领我们进入餐厅，将我们保护在他的羽翼之下。 ，就像一名下士带着一队新兵去裁缝师那里，让他们试穿；然而，过了一会儿，我们确实看到了一位乡村绅士和他的女儿，来自一个不起眼但非常古老的布列塔尼家族，M.和Mlle，de Stermaria，他们的桌子被分配给了我们，因为我们相信他们已经出去了直到晚上才回来。 他们来到巴尔贝克只是为了见见他们在附近认识的各种乡村富豪，他们在酒店的餐厅里度过了，他们接受的邀请和他们的拜访，只是在严格不可避免的情况下度过的。正是他们的僵硬使他们完好无损地免受所有人类的同情，免受周围所有陌生人的兴趣，德·斯泰马里亚先生在他们中间保持着冷酷的，全神贯注的，疏远的，粗鲁的，一丝不苟的和不信任的神态，我们假设在一个铁路茶点室里，周围都是我们以前从未见过、也永远不会再见到的乘客，除了保卫我们的“份”冷鸡和我们在火车上的角落座位免遭他们的攻击之外，我们无法想象与他们有任何其他关系。火车。午餐一开始，我们就被要求离开餐桌，按照刚刚到达的德·斯特马里亚先生的指示，他没有向我们道歉，而是要求领班在我们的听证会上， “确保这样的错误不再发生”，因为“他不认识的人”竟然占据了他的餐桌，这让他感到反感。

And certainly into the feeling which impelled a young actress (better known, though, for her smart clothes, her smart sayings, her collection of German porcelain, than in the occasional parts that she had played at the Odéon), her lover, an immensely rich young man for whose sake she had acquired her culture, and two sprigs of aristocracy at that time much in the public eye to form a little band apart, to travel only together, to come down to luncheon—when at Balbec—very late, after everyone had finished; to spend the whole day in their sitting-room playing cards, there entered no sort of ill-humour against the rest of us but simply the requirements of the taste that they had formed for a certain type of conversation, for certain refinements of good living, which made them find pleasure in spending their time, in taking their meals only by themselves, and would have rendered intolerable a life in common with people who had not been initiated into those mysteries. Even at a dinner or a card table, each of them had to be certain that, in the diner or partner who sat opposite to him, there was, latent and not yet made use of, a certain brand of knowledge which would enable him to identify the rubbish with which so many houses in Paris were littered as genuine mediaeval or renaissance ‘pieces’ and, whatever the subject of discussion, to apply the critical standards common to all their party whereby they distinguished good work from bad. Probably it was only—at such moments—by some infrequent, amusing interruption flung into the general silence of meal or game, or by the new and charming frock which the young actress had put on for luncheon or for poker, that the special kind of existence in which these four friends desired, above all things, to remain plunged was made apparent. But by engulfing them thus in a system of habits which they knew by heart it sufficed to protect them from the mystery of the life that was going on all round them. All the long afternoon, the sea was suspended there before their eyes only as a canvas of attractive colouring might hang on the wall of a wealthy bachelor’s flat and it was only in the intervals between the ‘hands’ that one of the players, finding nothing better to do, raised his eyes to it to seek from it some indication of the weather or the time, and to remind the others that tea was ready. And at night they did not dine in the hotel, where, hidden springs of electricity flooding the great dining-room with light, it became as it were an immense and wonderful aquarium against whose wall of glass the working population of Balbec, the fishermen and also the tradesmen’s families, clustering invisibly in the outer darkness, pressed their faces to watch, gently floating upon the golden eddies within, the luxurious life of its occupants, a thing as extraordinary to the poor as the life of strange fishes or molluscs (an important social question, this: whether the wall of glass will always protect the wonderful creatures at their feasting, whether the obscure folk who watch them hungrily out of the night will not break in some day to gather them from their aquarium and devour them). Meanwhile there may have been, perhaps, among the gazing crowd, a motionless, formless mass there in the dark, some writer, some student of human ichthyology who, as he watched the jaws of old feminine monstrosities close over a mouthful of food which they proceeded then to absorb, was amusing himself by classifying them according to their race, by their innate characteristics as well as by those acquired characteristics which bring it about that an old Serbian lady whose buccal protuberance is that of a great sea-fish, because from her earliest years she has moved in the fresh waters of the Faubourg Saint-Germain, eats her salad for all the world like a La Rochefoucauld.
当然，还有那种驱使着一位年轻女演员的感觉（不过，更出名的是她漂亮的衣服、她聪明的话语、她收藏的德国瓷器，而不是她在奥德翁剧院偶尔扮演的角色），她的爱人，一个非常伟大的人。为了他，她获得了自己的文化，还有当时在公众视野中的两支贵族，他们分开组成一个小乐队，只一起旅行，下楼去吃午饭——在巴尔贝克——很晚了，当所有人都完成后；整天在他们的客厅里打牌，并没有对我们其他人产生任何不好的幽默感，而只是他们对某种类型的谈话、对美好生活的某些精致而形成的品味的要求。 ，这使他们在消磨时间、独自吃饭时感到快乐，并且使他们无法忍受与那些没有开始接触这些奥秘的人共同生活。即使在晚餐或牌桌上，他们每个人都必须确信，坐在他对面的用餐者或伙伴身上，存在着某种潜在的、尚未被利用的知识，这将使他能够将巴黎许多房屋中散落的垃圾识别为真正的中世纪或文艺复兴“作品”，并且无论讨论的主题是什么，都应用他们所有党派共同的批判标准来区分好作品和坏作品。 也许只有——在这样的时刻——在用餐或游戏的普遍寂静中突然出现一些不常见的、有趣的中断，或者年轻女演员在午餐或扑克时穿上的新的迷人连衣裙，才会产生这种特殊的感觉。这四个朋友最希望的是继续沉浸其中的存在是显而易见的。但是，通过将他们纳入一套他们熟知的习惯体系中，就足以保护他们免受周围正在发生的生命之谜的影响。整个漫长的下午，大海悬浮在他们眼前，就像一幅色彩迷人的画布挂在富有的单身公寓的墙上，只是在“双手”之间的间隙，其中一个玩家什么也没发现。更好的做法是，抬起眼睛看它，从中寻找天气或时间的指示，并提醒其他人茶已经准备好了。晚上他们不在旅馆里吃饭，那里隐藏着的电泉使大餐厅充满了光明，它就像一个巨大而美妙的水族馆，在玻璃墙的映衬下，巴尔贝克的劳动人民、渔民和还有商人的家人，在外面的黑暗中看不见地聚集，他们压着脸观看，轻轻地漂浮在里面金色的漩涡上，里面住着的人的奢华生活，对穷人来说就像奇怪的鱼或软体动物的生活一样非同寻常。一个重要的社会问题是：玻璃墙是否会永远保护这些奇妙的生物在盛宴时，那些在夜间饥饿地观看它们的默默无闻的人们是否不会有一天闯入将它们从水族馆中收集起来并吞噬它们）。 与此同时，在凝视的人群中，黑暗中可能有一个一动不动、无形的群体，某个作家，某个人类鱼类学的学生，当他看着古老的女性怪物的下巴合上一口食物时，他们然后他开始吸收，并自娱自乐地根据他们的种族、先天特征以及后天特征对他们进行分类，这使得一位塞尔维亚老太太的颊部突起像一条巨大的海鱼，因为从她早年就搬到了圣日耳曼郊区的淡水里，像拉罗什富科那样吃着全世界的沙拉。

At that hour one could see the three young men in dinner-jackets, waiting for the young woman, who was as usual late but presently, wearing a dress that was almost always different and one of a series of scarves, chosen to gratify some special instinct in her lover, after having from her landing rung for the lift, would emerge from it like a doll coming out of its box. And then all four, because they found that the international phenomenon of the ‘Palace,’ planted on Balbec soil, had blossomed there in material splendour rather than in food that was fit to eat, bundled into a carriage and went to dine, a mile off, in a little restaurant that was well spoken of, where they held with the cook himself endless discussions of the composition of their meal and the cooking of its various dishes. During their drive, the road bordered with apple-trees that led out of Balbec was no more to them than the distance that must be traversed—barely distinguishable in the darkness from that which separated their homes in Paris from the Café Anglais or the Tour d’Argent—before they could arrive at the fashionable little restaurant where, while the young man’s friends envied him because he had such a smartly dressed mistress, the latter’s scarves were spread about the little company like a fragrant, flowing veil, but one that kept it apart from the outer world.
那时，人们可以看到三个穿着晚礼服的年轻男子正在等待那位年轻女子，她像往常一样迟到了，但很快就穿着一件几乎总是不同的衣服和一系列围巾中的一条，被选择来满足一些特殊的需要。她的爱人在从楼梯口按响电梯后，会本能地从电梯里出来，就像一个洋娃娃从盒子里出来一样。然后四个人都发现，在巴尔贝克的土地上种植的“宫殿”的国际现象，在那里以物质的辉煌而不是在适合食用的食物中绽放，打包进马车，去一英里外的地方用餐。离开后，在一家颇有名气的小餐馆里，他们与厨师本人就饭菜的成分和各种菜肴的烹饪进行了无休止的讨论。在他们开车的过程中，从巴尔贝克出来的那条种满苹果树的道路对他们来说只不过是必须经过的距离——在黑暗中几乎无法区分他们在巴黎的家与英国咖啡馆或环法自行车赛之间的距离。银色——在他们到达那家时尚的小餐馆之前，年轻人的朋友们羡慕他，因为他有一个穿着如此漂亮的情妇，后者的围巾像一层芬芳飘逸的面纱一样铺在小公司周围，但那它与外界隔绝。

Alas for my peace of mind, I had none of the detachment that all these people shewed. To many of them I gave constant thought; I should have liked not to pass unobserved by a man with a receding brow and eyes that dodged between the blinkers of his prejudices and his education, the great nobleman of the district, who was none other than the brother-in-law of Legrandin, and came every now and then to see somebody at Balbec and on Sundays, by reason of the weekly garden-party that his wife and he gave, robbed the hotel of a large number of its occupants, because one or two of them were invited to these entertainments and the others, so as not to appear to have been not invited, chose that day for an expedition to some distant spot. He had had, as it happened, an exceedingly bad reception at the hotel on the first day of the season, when the staff, freshly imported from the Riviera, did not yet know who or what he was. Not only was he not wearing white flannels, but, with old-fashioned French courtesy and in his ignorance of the ways of smart hotels, on coming into the hall in which there were ladies sitting, he had taken off his hat at the door, the effect of which had been that the manager did not so much as raise a finger to his own in acknowledgment, concluding that this must be some one of the most humble extraction, what he called ‘sprung from the ordinary.’ The solicitor’s wife, alone, had felt herself attracted by the stranger, who exhaled all the starched vulgarity of the really respectable, and had declared, with the unerring discernment and the indisputable authority of a person from whom the highest society of Le Mans held no secrets, that one could see at a glance that one was in the presence of a gentleman of great distinction, of perfect breeding, a striking contrast to the sort of people one usually saw at Balbec, whom she condemned as impossible to know so long as she did not know them. This favourable judgment which she had pronounced on Legrandin’s brother-in-law was based perhaps on the spiritless appearance of a man about whom there was nothing to intimidate anyone; perhaps also she had recognised in this gentleman farmer with the gait of a sacristan the Masonic signs of her own inveterate clericalism.
唉，可惜我内心平静，我没有所有这些人所表现出的超然态度。对于其中的许多人，我不断地思考；我本来不想被一个眉头后缩、眼睛闪烁着偏见和教育的人发现的，他是该地区的伟大贵族，他不是别人，正是勒格朗丹的妹夫，他时不时地来巴尔贝克看望某人，周日，由于他和妻子举办的每周花园聚会，酒店里的一大批客人都被抢走了，因为他们中的一两个人被邀请参加这些娱乐活动和其他人，为了不显得没有受到邀请，选择了这一天去某个遥远的地方探险。碰巧的是，赛季第一天，他在酒店受到了极其糟糕的接待，当时刚从里维埃拉引进的工作人员还不知道他是谁或是什么。他不仅没有穿白色法兰绒衣服，而且以老式的法国礼节和对豪华酒店礼仪的无知，当他走进有女士们坐着的大厅时，他在门口摘下了帽子，其结果是，经理连一根手指头都没有表示承认，并得出结论，这一定是最卑微的出身，他称之为“源于平凡”。律师的妻子独自一人，感到自己被这个陌生人所吸引，这个陌生人吐出了真正受人尊敬的人的所有刻板粗俗，并以勒芒最高社会所拥有的无误的洞察力和无可争议的权威宣布了这一点。没有什么秘密，人们一眼就能看出，面前的是一位非常杰出、有完美教养的绅士，这与人们在巴尔贝克经常见到的那种人形成了鲜明的对比，她谴责他们长期以来不可能认识他。因为她不认识他们。她对勒格朗丹的妹夫做出的这种有利的判断，也许是基于这个人毫无生气的外表，他没有什么可以吓倒任何人的。也许她也从这位有着圣器保管员步态的绅士农夫身上看出了她自己根深蒂固的教权主义的共济会迹象。

It made no difference my knowing that the young fellows who went past the hotel every day on horseback were the sons of the questionably solvent proprietor of a linen-drapery to whom my father would never have dreamed of speaking; the glamour of ‘seaside life’ exalted them in my eyes to equestrian statues of demi-gods, and the best thing that I could hope for was that they would never allow their proud gaze to fall upon the wretched boy who was myself, who left the hotel dining-room only to sit humbly upon the sands. I should have been glad to arouse some response even from the adventurer who had been king of a desert island in the South Seas, even of the young consumptive, of whom I liked to think that he was hiding beneath his insolent exterior a shy and tender heart, which would perhaps have lavished on me, and on me alone, the treasures of its affection. Besides (unlike what one generally says of the people one meets when travelling) just as being seen in certain company can invest us, in a watering-place to which we shall return another year, with a coefficient that has no equivalent in our true social life, so there is nothing—not which we keep so resolutely at a distance, but—which we cultivate with such assiduity after our return to Paris as the friendships that we have formed by the sea. I was anxious about the opinion that might be held of me by all these temporary or local celebrities whom my tendency to put myself in the place of other people and to reconstruct what was in their minds had made me place not in their true rank, that which they would have held in Paris, for instance, and which would have been quite low, but in that which they must imagine to be, and which indeed was their rank at Balbec, where the want of a common denominator gave them a sort of relative superiority and an individual interest. Alas, none of these people’s contempt for me was so unbearable as that of M. de Stermaria.
尽管我知道那些每天骑马经过旅馆的年轻人都是一家亚麻窗帘店老板的儿子，但我的父亲从来没有想过要和他说话，这家店主的偿付能力值得怀疑。 “海边生活”的魅力在我眼中将他们尊崇为半神的骑马雕像，而我所能希望的最好的事情就是他们永远不会让他们骄傲的目光落在那个可怜的男孩身上，而我就是我，他离开了酒店的餐厅只能谦卑地坐在沙滩上。我应该很高兴能引起一些反应，即使是曾经是南海荒岛之王的冒险家，甚至是年轻的痨病患者，我喜欢认为他傲慢的外表下隐藏着害羞而温柔的一面。心，也许会为我，而且只为我，慷慨地倾注它的感情宝藏。此外（与人们通常所说的旅行时遇到的人不同），就像在某些公司中看到一样，我们可以投资于一个我们将在一年后返回的水源地，其系数与我们真实的社交中无法比拟的。生活中，没有什么比我们在海边结下的友谊更重要的了——不是我们坚决地保持距离，而是我们回到巴黎后如此刻苦地培养的。 我担心所有这些临时或当地的名人可能会对我持有看法，因为我倾向于将自己置于其他人的位置并重建他们的想法，这使我无法将我置于他们真正的位置，例如，他们在巴黎的地位会很低，但他们必须想象自己的地位，而且这确实是他们在巴尔贝克的地位，在那里，缺乏共同点给了他们一种地位。相对优势和个人利益。唉，这些人对我的蔑视没有一个像德·斯泰马里亚先生那样令人难以忍受。

For I had noticed his daughter, the moment she came into the room, her pretty features, her pallid, almost blue complexion, what there was peculiar in the carriage of her tall figure, in her gait, which suggested to me—and rightly—her long descent, her aristocratic upbringing, all the more vividly because I knew her name, like those expressive themes composed by musicians of genius which paint in splendid colours the glow of fire, the rush of water, the peace of fields and woods, to audiences who, having first let thçir eyes run over the programme, have their imaginations trained in the right direction. The label ‘Centuries of Breeding,’ by adding to Mlle, de Stermaria’s charms the idea of their origin, made them more desirable also, advertising their rarity as a high price enhances the value of a thing that has already taken our fancy. And its stock of heredity gave to her complexion, in which so many selected juices had been blended, the savour of an exotic fruit or of a famous vintage.
因为我在他女儿走进房间的那一刻就注意到了她美丽的容貌，她苍白、近乎蓝色的肤色，她高大身材的举止和她的步态，这些都向我暗示——而且是正确的——她悠久的血统，她的贵族出身，因为我知道她的名字而显得更加生动，就像天才音乐家创作的那些富有表现力的主题一样，用绚丽的色彩描绘了火的光芒，水的奔腾，田野和树林的宁静，观众首先用眼睛浏览节目，他们的想象力就被训练到了正确的方向。 “百年育种”的标签，通过在 Mlle, de Stermaria 的魅力中添加了它们的起源概念，也使它们变得更有吸引力，广告它们的稀有性，因为高价格提高了我们已经喜欢的东西的价值。它的遗传赋予了她的肤色，其中混合了许多精选的果汁，具有异国情调的水果或著名年份的味道。

And then mere chance put into our hands, my grandmother’s and mine, the means of giving ourselves an immediate distinction in the eyes of all the other occupants of the hotel. On that first afternoon, at the moment when the old lady came downstairs from her room, producing, thanks to the footman who preceded her, the maid who came running after her with a book and a rug that had been left behind, a marked effect upon all who beheld her and arousing in each of them a curiosity from which it was evident that none was so little immune as M. de Stermaria, the manager leaned across to my grandmother and, from pure kindness of heart (as one might point out the Shah, or Queen Ranavalo to an obscure onlooker who could obviously have no sort of connexion with so mighty a potentate, but might be interested, all the same, to know that he had been standing within a few feet of one) whispered in her ear, ‘The Marquise de Villeparisis!’ while at the same moment the old lady, catching sight of my grandmother,-could not repress a start of pleased surprise.
然后，偶然的机会就交给了我们，我的祖母和我自己，让我们在酒店所有其他住户的眼中立即脱颖而出。第一天下午，当老太太从她的房间下楼时，多亏了在她前面的男仆，女仆带着她留下的一本书和一块地毯追了上来，产生了显着的效果。经理向我的祖母倾斜了身子，并出于纯粹的善意（正如人们可能指出的那样）国王或拉纳瓦洛王后对一位不起眼的旁观者说，这位旁观者显然与如此强大的君主没有任何关系，但仍然可能有兴趣知道他一直站在离她几英尺的地方）在她耳边低声说道耳边传来“维尔帕里西斯侯爵夫人！”的声音，与此同时，老太太看到了我的祖母，忍不住惊讶起来。

It may be imagined that the sudden appearance, in the guise of a. little old woman, of the most powerful of fairies would not have given me so much pleasure, destitute as I was of any means of access to Mlle, de Stermaria, in a strange place where I knew no one: no one, that is to say, for any practical purpose. Aesthetically the number of types of humanity is so restricted that we must constantly, wherever we may be, have the pleasure of seeing people we know, even without looking for them in the works of the old masters, like Swann. Thus it happened that in the first few days of our visit to Balbec I had succeeded in finding Legrandin, Swann’s hall porter and Mme. Swann herself, transformed into a waiter, a foreign visitor whom I never saw again and a bathing superintendent. And a sort of magnetism attracts and retains so inseparably, one after another, certain characteristics, facial and mental, that when nature thus introduces a person into a new body she does not mutilate him unduly. Legrandin turned waiter kept intact his stature, the outline of his nose, part of his chin; Mme. Swann, in the masculine gender and the calling of a bathing superintendent, had been accompanied not only by familiar features, but even by the way she had of speaking. Only, she could be of little if any more use to me, standing upon the beach there in the red sash of her office, and hoisting at the first gust of wind the flag which forbade us to bathe (for these superintendents are prudent men, and seldom know how to swim) than she would have been in that fresco of the Life of Moses in which Swann had long ago identified her in the portrait of Jethro’s Daughter. Whereas this Mme. de Villeparisis was her real self, she had not been the victim of an enchantment which had deprived her of her power, but was capable, on the contrary, of putting at the service of my power an enchantment which would multiply it an hundredfold, and thanks to which, as though I had been swept through the air on the wings of a fabulous bird, I was to cross in a few moments the infinitely wide (at least, at Balbec) social gulf which separated me from Mlle, de Stermaria.
可以想象，突然出现的，是假扮的。最强大的仙女中的小老太婆不会给我这么多的快乐，因为我在一个陌生的地方，没有任何方法可以接近德·斯特马里亚小姐，在一个我不认识任何人的地方：没有人，也就是说说，出于任何实际目的。从审美角度来看，人类类型的数量是如此有限，以至于无论我们身在何处，我们都必须不断地高兴地看到我们认识的人，即使不是在斯旺等古代大师的作品中寻找他们。因此，在我们访问巴尔贝克的头几天里，我成功地找到了勒格朗丹，斯旺的门房和夫人。斯旺本人则变成了一名服务员、一名我再也没有见过的外国访客和一名沐浴主管。一种磁力不可分割地吸引并保留着某些特征，无论是面部特征还是精神特征，因此，当大自然将一个人引入一个新的身体时，她不会过度地残害他。罗格朗丹变身为侍者，他的身材、鼻子轮廓、下巴的一部分都完好无损。女士。斯旺的性别是男性，职业是沐浴主管，她不仅有熟悉的容貌，甚至还有她说话的方式。只是，她对我来说几乎没有任何用处，站在海滩上，办公室的红色腰带，在第一阵风中升起禁止我们洗澡的旗帜（因为这些主管都是谨慎的人，而且很少懂得游泳）比她在摩西生平壁画中的样子要好得多，在这幅壁画中，斯万很早以前就在杰思罗女儿的肖像中认出了她。而这位女士。 德·维尔帕里西斯是她真正的自我，她并没有成为剥夺她力量的魔法的受害者，相反，她能够为我的力量服务，使我的力量增加一百倍，并且多亏了它，我仿佛乘着一只神话般的鸟儿的翅膀在空中飞翔，片刻之间，我就跨越了将我与德·斯特玛利亚小姐分开的无限宽阔的（至少在巴尔贝克）社会鸿沟。

Unfortunately, if there was one person in the world who, more than anyone else, lived shut up in a little world of her own, it was my grandmother. She would not, indeed, have despised me, she would simply not have understood what I meant had she been told that I attached importance to the opinions, that I felt an interest in the persons of people the very existence of whom she had never noticed and would, when the time came to leave Balbec, retain no impression of their names. I dared not confess to her that if these same people had seen her talking to Mme. de Villeparisis, I should have been immensely gratified, because I felt that the Marquise counted for much in the hotel and that her friendship would have given us a position in the eyes of Mlle, de Stermaria. Not that my grandmother’s friend represented to me, in any sense of the word, a member of the aristocracy: I was too well used to her name, which had been familiar to my ears before my mind had begun to consider it, when as a child I had heard it occur in conversation at home: while her title added to it only a touch of quaintness—as some uncommon Christian name would have done, or as in the names of streets, among which we can see nothing more noble in the Rue Lord Byron, in the plebeian and even squalid Rue Rochechouart, or in the Rue Grammont than in the Rue Léonce Reynaud or the Rue Hyppolyte Lebas. Mme. de Villeparisis no more made me think of a person who belonged to a special world than did her cousin MacMahon, whom I did not clearly distinguish from M. Carnot, likewise President of the Republic, or from Raspail, whose photograph Françoise had bought with that of Pius IX. It was one of my grandmother’s principles that, when away from home, one should cease to have any social intercourse, that one did not go to the seaside to meet people, having plenty of time for that sort of thing in Paris, that they would make one waste on being merely polite, in pointless conversation, the precious time which ought all to be spent in the open air, beside the waves; and finding it convenient to assume that this view was shared by everyone else, and that it authorised, between old friends whom chance brought face to face in the same hotel, the fiction of a mutual incognito, on hearing her friend’s name from the manager she merely looked the other way, and pretended not to see Mme. de Villeparisis, who, realising that my grandmother did not want to be recognised, looked also into the void. She went past, and I was left in my isolation like a shipwrecked mariner who has seen a vessel apparently coming towards him which has then, without lowering a boat, vanished under the horizon.
不幸的是，如果世界上有一个人比任何人都更加封闭地生活在自己的小世界里，那就是我的祖母。事实上，她不会鄙视我，如果她被告知我重视这些观点，我对那些她从未注意到的人的存在感兴趣，她根本不会理解我的意思。当离开巴尔贝克时，他们的名字将不再留下任何印象。我不敢向她承认，如果这些人看到她和夫人说话。德维尔帕里西斯，我应该感到非常高兴，因为我觉得侯爵夫人在酒店里很重要，她的友谊会让我们在德斯特玛丽亚女士的眼中占有一席之地。无论如何，我祖母的朋友对我来说并不代表贵族阶层的一员：我太习惯她的名字了，在我的思想开始考虑这个名字之前，我的耳朵就已经很熟悉了，当时我还是个贵族。孩子，我在家里的谈话中听到过这种事：而她的头衔只给它增添了一丝古怪——就像一些不常见的基督教名字所做的那样，或者就像街道的名字一样，在这些名字中我们看不到比这更高贵的东西了。拜伦勋爵街，在平民化甚至肮脏的罗什楚阿尔街，或者在格拉蒙街，而不是莱昂斯·雷诺街或希波利特·勒巴斯街。女士。德维尔帕里西斯并不比她的表弟麦克马洪更让我想起属于一个特殊世界的人，我没有清楚地将他与同样是共和国总统的卡诺先生或拉斯拜尔区分开来，弗朗索瓦丝用那张照片买了他的照片。庇护九世。 我祖母的原则之一是，离开家时，应该停止任何社交活动，不要去海边见人，在巴黎有足够的时间做这种事情，他们不会让人们浪费在纯粹的礼貌、毫无意义的谈话中，而浪费了本应该在露天、在海浪边度过的宝贵时间；她发现很容易假设这种观点得到了其他人的认同，并且它授权了在同一家酒店偶然相遇的老朋友之间，在从经理那里听到她朋友的名字时，相互隐姓埋名的虚构。只是看向别处，假装没有看到夫人。德·维尔帕里西斯意识到我的祖母不想被认出，他也望向虚空。她走了过去，我独自一人，就像一个遭遇海难的水手，看到一艘显然朝他驶来的船，然后船没有放下，就消失在地平线以下。

She, too, had her meals in the dining-room, but at the other end of it. She knew none of the people who were staying in the hotel, or who came there to call, not even M. de Cambremer; in fact, I noticed that he gave her no greeting, one day when, with his wife, he had accepted an invitation to take luncheon with the barrister, who drunken with the honour of having the nobleman at his table avoided his friends of every day, and confined himself to a distant twitch of the eyelid, so as to draw their attention to this historic event but so discreetly that his signal could not be interpreted by them as an invitation to join the party.
她也在餐厅里吃饭，但在餐厅的另一端。她不认识那些住在旅馆里的人，也不认识那些来拜访的人，甚至连德·康布勒梅先生也不认识。事实上，我注意到他没有向她打招呼，有一天，他和妻子一起接受了与律师共进午餐的邀请，律师喝得酩酊大醉，有幸让这位贵族坐在他的桌子上，避开了他每天的朋友，并限制自己的眼皮在远处抽动，以便引起他们对这一历史性事件的注意，但他的动作非常谨慎，以至于他们无法将他的信号理解为加入聚会的邀请。

‘Well, I hope you’ve got on your best clothes; I hope you feel smart enough,’ was the magistrate’s wife’s greeting to him that evening.
“好吧，我希望你穿上了最好的衣服；我希望你觉得自己足够聪明。”那天晚上，县令的妻子向他打招呼。

‘Smart? Why should I?’ asked the barrister, concealing his rapture in an exaggerated astonishment. ‘Because of my guests, do you mean?’ he went on, feeling that it was impossible to keep up the farce any longer. ‘But what is there smart about having a few friends in to luncheon? After all, they must feed somewhere!’
'聪明的？我为什么要这么做？”大律师问道，他用夸张的惊讶来掩饰自己的狂喜。 “你是说因为我的客人？”他继续说道，觉得这场闹剧不可能再继续下去了。 “但是请几个朋友来吃午饭有什么聪明的地方呢？”毕竟，它们必须在某个地方吃东西！

‘But it is smart! They are the de Cambremers, aren’t they? I recognized them at once. She is a Marquise. And quite genuine, too. Not through the females.’
‘但是它很聪明！他们是德·康布雷默夫妇，不是吗？我立刻就认出了他们。她是侯爵夫人。而且也很真诚。不是通过女性。”

‘Oh, she’s a very simple soul, she is charming, no stand-offishness about her. I thought you were coming to join us. I was making signals to you... I would have introduced you!’ he asserted, tempering with a hint of irony the vast generosity of the offer, like Ahasuerus when he says to Esther:
“哦，她是一个非常简单的灵魂，她很迷人，没有任何冷漠。我以为你会来加入我们。我是在向你发出信号……我会介绍你的！”他断言，在这个慷慨的提议中带着一丝讽刺的意味，就像亚哈随鲁王对以斯帖说的那样：

Of all my Kingdom must I give you half!
我的王国必须给你一半！

‘No, no, no, no! We lie hidden, like the modest violet.’
'不不不不！我们隐藏起来，就像谦虚的紫罗兰一样。

‘But you were quite wrong, I assure you,’ replied the barrister, growing bolder now that the danger point was passed. ‘They weren’t going to eat you. I say, aren’t we going to have our little game of bezique?’
“但我向你保证，你完全错了。”大律师回答道，既然危险点已经过去，他就变得更加大胆了。 ‘他们不会吃掉你的。我说，我们不来玩一下贝齐克小游戏吗？

‘Why, of course! We were afraid to suggest it, now that you go about entertaining Marquises.’
‘为什么，当然！既然你要招待侯爵夫人，我们不敢提出这个建议。

‘Oh, get along with you; there’s nothing so very wonderful about them, Why, I’m dining there to-morrow. Would you care to go instead of me? I mean it. Honestly, I’d just as soon stay here.’
‘哦，和你相处吧；他们没有什么特别美妙的地方，哎呀，我明天就在那里吃饭。你愿意代替我去吗？我是认真的。老实说，我宁愿留在这里。

‘No, no! I should be removed from the bench as a Reactionary,’ cried the chief magistrate, laughing till the tears stood in his eyes at his own joke. ‘But you go to Féterne too, don’t you?’ he went on, turning to the solicitor.
'不，不！我应该以反动分子的身份被从法官席上除名。”首席法官喊道，他笑得眼泪都流出来了。 “但是你也去了费特纳，不是吗？”他转向律师继续说道。

‘Oh, I go there on Sundays—in at one door and out at the other. But I don’t have them here to luncheon, like the Leader.’ M. de Stermaria was not at Balbec that day, to the barrister’s great regret. But he managed to say a word in season to the head waiter:
“哦，我周日去那里——从一扇门进去，从另一扇门出去。但我没有像领袖那样邀请他们来这里吃午饭。”德·斯泰马里亚先生那天不在巴尔贝克，这让律师深感遗憾。但他还是对领班说了一句应景的话：

‘Aimé, you can tell M. de Stermaria that he’s not the only nobleman you’ve had in here. You saw the gentleman who was with me to-day at luncheon? Eh? A small moustache, looked like a military man. Well, that was the Marquis de Cambremer!’
“艾梅，你可以告诉德·斯特马里亚先生，他不是你这里唯一的贵族。你看到今天和我一起吃午饭的那位先生了吗？呃？留着小胡子，看上去像个军人。嗯，那是康布勒梅侯爵！”

‘Was it indeed? I’m not surprised to hear it.’
‘确实如此吗？听到这个我并不感到惊讶。

‘That will shew him that he’s not the only man who’s got a title. That will teach him! It’s not a bad thing to take ‘em down a peg or two, those noblemen. I say, Aimé, don’t say anything to him unless you like: I mean to say, it’s no business of mine; besides, they know each other already.’
“这将向他表明，他并不是唯一一个拥有冠军头衔的人。那会教他的！那些贵族们，把他们打倒一两个也不是什么坏事。我说，艾梅，除非你愿意，否则不要对他说任何话：我的意思是，这不关我的事；我的意思是，这不关我的事。而且，他们已经认识了。”

And next day M. de Stermaria, who remembered that the barrister had once held a brief for one of his friends, came up and introduced himself.
第二天，德·斯泰马里亚先生走过来做了自我介绍，他记得律师曾经为他的一位朋友做过案情陈述。

‘Our friends in common, the de Cambremers, were anxious that we should meet; the days didn’t fit; I don’t know quite what went wrong—‘ stammered the barrister, who, like most liars, imagined that other people do not take the trouble to investigate an unimportant detail which, for all that, may be sufficient (if chance puts you in possession of the humble facts of the case, and they contradict it) to shew the liar in his true colours and to inspire a lasting mistrust.
“我们的共同朋友，德·康布雷默夫妇，都急切地希望我们能够见面；日子不合适；我不太清楚出了什么问题——”律师结结巴巴地说，他像大多数骗子一样，认为其他人不会花功夫去调查一个不重要的细节，尽管如此，这可能就足够了（如果有机会让你陷入困境）掌握案件的卑微事实，并且与事实相矛盾），以暴露说谎者的真面目并激发持久的不信任。

Then as at all times, but more easily now that her father had left her and was talking to the barrister, I was gazing at Mlle, de Stermaria. No less than the bold and always graceful originality of her attitudes, as when, leaning her elbows on the table, she raised her glass in both hands over her outstretched arms, the dry flame of a glance at once extinguished, the ingrained, congenital hardness that one could feel, ill-concealed by her own personal inflexions, in the sound of her voice, which had shocked my grandmother; a sort of atavistic starting point to which she recoiled whenever, by glance or utterance, she had succeeded in expressing a thought of her own; all of these qualities carried the mind of him who watched her back to the line of ancestors who had bequeathed to her that inadequacy of human sympathy, those blanks in her sensibility, that short measure of humanity which was at every moment running out. But from a certain look which flooded for a moment the wells—instantly dry again—of her eyes, a look in which I could discern that almost obsequious docility which the predominance of a taste for sensual pleasures gives to the proudest of women, who will soon come to recognise but one form of personal distinction, that namely which any man enjoys who can make her feel those pleasures, an actor, an acrobat even, for whom, perhaps, she will one day leave her husband;—from a certain rosy tint, warm and sensual, which flushed her pallid cheeks, like the colour that stained the hearts of the white water-lilies in the Vivonne, I thought I could discern that she would readily have consented to my coming to seek in her the savour of that life of poetry and romance which she led in Brittany, a life to which, whether from over-familiarity or from innate superiority, or from disgust at the penury or the avarice of her family, she seemed not to attach any great value, but which, for all that, she held enclosed in her body. In the meagre stock of will-power that had been transmitted to her, and gave an element of weakness to her expression, she would not perhaps have found the strength to resist. And, crowned by a feather that was a trifle old-fashioned and pretentious, the grey felt hat which she invariably wore at meals made her all the more attractive to me, not because it was in harmony with her pearly or rosy complexion, but because, by making me suppose her to be poor, it brought her closer to myself. Obliged by her father’s presence to adopt a conventional attitude, but already bringing to the perception and classification of the people who passed before her eyes other principles than his, perhaps she saw in me not my humble rank, but the right sex and age. If one day M. de Stermaria had gone out leaving her behind, if, above all, Mme. de Villeparisis, by coming to sit at our table, had given her an opinion of me which might have emboldened me to approach her, perhaps then we might have contrived to exchange a few words, to arrange a meeting, to form a closer tie. And for a whole month during which she would be left alone, without her parents, in her romantic Breton castle, we should perhaps have been able to wander by ourselves at evening, she and I together in the dusk which would shew in a softer light above the darkening water pink briar roses, beneath oak trees beaten and stunted by the hammering of the waves. Together we should have roamed that isle impregnated with so intense a charm for me because it had enclosed the everyday life of Mlle, de Stermaria and lay at rest in her remembering eyes. For it seemed to me that I should not really have possessed her save there, when I should have traversed those regions which enveloped her in so many memories—a veil which my desire sought to tear apart, one of those veils which nature interposes between woman and her pursuers (with the same intention as when, for all of us, she places the act of reproduction between ourselves and our keenest pleasure, and for insects, places before the nectar the pollen which they must carry away with them) in order that, tricked by the illusion of possessing her thus more completely, they may be forced to occupy first the scenes among which she lives, and which, of more service to their imagination than sensual pleasure can be, yet would not without that pleasure have had the power to attract them.
然后，就像往常一样，但现在她父亲离开了她，正在和律师交谈，我凝视着德·斯泰玛丽亚小姐，这让我更容易了。她的态度大胆而又始终优雅，独创性十足，就像当她把胳膊肘靠在桌子上，双手举起酒杯举过伸出的手臂时，一瞥的干燥火焰立刻熄灭了，那根深蒂固的、先天的刚硬人们可以从她的声音中感受到这一点，她个人的语气变化毫不掩饰，这让我的祖母感到震惊；这是一种返祖的起点，每当她通过眼神或言语成功地表达了自己的想法时，她就会退缩。所有这些品质都让那个看着她的人想起了祖先的血统，他们给她留下了人类同情心的不足，她情感上的空白，她的人性每时每刻都在耗尽。 但从她那双眼睛的某种神情中，她的眼眸瞬间泛滥成灾——立即又干涸了，从这种神情中，我可以看出一种近乎谄媚的温顺，这种近乎谄媚的温顺，是由于对感官享乐的品味占主导地位而赋予最骄傲的女人的。很快就会认识到个人区别的一种形式，即任何能让她感受到这些快乐的男人，一个演员，甚至一个杂技演员，也许有一天她会为了他而离开她的丈夫；——来自某种玫瑰色的声音色彩，温暖而感性，让她苍白的脸颊泛红，就像染红了维翁纳里白色睡莲心的颜色，我想我可以看出，她会欣然同意我来寻找她的味道。她在布列塔尼过着充满诗意和浪漫的生活，无论是出于过分熟悉，还是出于天生的优越感，或者出于对家庭贫困或贪婪的厌恶，她似乎对这种生活没有任何重视，但尽管如此，她仍将其封存在体内。由于传递给她的意志力微薄，让她的表情显得有些虚弱，她也许找不到反抗的力量。而且，她在吃饭时总是戴着的灰色毡帽，头上戴着一根有点老式和自命不凡的羽毛，这让她对我更有吸引力，不是因为它与她珍珠般或红润的肤色相协调，而是因为，通过让我认为她很穷，这让她离我更近了。由于她父亲的存在，她不得不采取传统的态度，但已经给她眼前的人们带来了与他不同的原则的感知和分类，也许她在我身上看到的不是我卑微的地位，而是正确的性别和年龄。如果有一天M. 德·斯泰玛丽亚出去了，留下了她，尤其是夫人。德·维尔帕里西斯来到我们桌边坐下，让她对我产生了一种看法，这可能会鼓励我接近她，也许我们可以设法交换几句话，安排一次会面，建立更紧密的联系。整整一个月，她都被独自留在浪漫的布列塔尼城堡里，没有父母陪伴，我们也许应该能够在晚上独自漫步，她和我一起在黄昏中，黄昏会在柔和的光线中显现出来。漆黑的水面上是粉红色的石南玫瑰，橡树下是被海浪拍打、发育不良的树下。我们应该一起漫步那个对我来说充满着如此强烈魅力的小岛，因为它包围了德·斯泰玛丽亚小姐的日常生活，并在她记忆的眼睛里安息。因为在我看来，除非在那里，否则我不应该真正占有她，因为我应该穿越那些将她笼罩在如此多的记忆中的区域——我的欲望试图撕开的一层面纱，自然插在女人之间的那些面纱之一。而她的追求者（对于我们所有人来说，她把繁殖行为放在我们自己和我们最强烈的快乐之间，对于昆虫来说，把它们必须带走的花粉放在花蜜之前）是为了被更彻底地占有她的幻想所欺骗，他们可能会被迫首先占据她生活的场景，这些场景比感官愉悦更能帮助他们想象，但如果没有这种愉悦，他们就不会拥有吸引他们的力量。

But I was obliged to take my eyes from Mlle, de Stermaria, for already, considering no doubt that making the acquaintance of an important person was a brief, inquisitive act which was sufficient in itself, and to bring out all the interest that was latent in it required only a handshake and a penetrating stare, without either immediate conversation or any subsequent relations, her father had taken leave of the barrister and returned to sit down facing her, rubbing his hands like a man who has just made a valuable acquisition. As for the barrister, once the first emotion of this interview had subsided, then, as on other days, he could be heard every minute addressing the head waiter:
但我不得不把目光从德·斯特马里亚小姐身上移开，因为毫无疑问，结识一个重要人物是一个短暂的、好奇的行为，这本身就足够了，并且可以激发出所有潜在的兴趣。只需要一次握手和一个锐利的凝视，无需立即交谈或任何后续关系，她的父亲就向律师告别，回到她面前坐下，搓着手，就像一个刚刚获得了一笔宝贵财富的人一样。至于大律师，当这次采访中的最初情绪平息后，就像往常一样，每分钟都能听到他对领班的讲话：

‘But I am not a king, Aimé; go and attend to the king! I say, Chief, those little trout don’t look at all bad, do they? We must ask Aimé to let us have some. Aimé, that little fish you have over there looks to me highly commendable; will you bring us some, please, Aimé, and don’t be sparing with it?’
“但我不是国王，艾梅；去侍奉国王吧！我说，酋长，那些小鳟鱼看起来并不坏，是吗？我们必须请艾梅给我们一些。艾梅，你那边的那条小鱼在我看来非常值得称赞；艾梅，请你给我们带来一些，不要吝惜它吗？

He would repeat the name ‘Aimé’ all day long, one result of which was that when he had anyone to dinner the guest would remark ‘I can see, you are quite at home in this place,’ and would feel himself obliged to keep, on saying ‘Aimé’ also, from that tendency, combining elements of timidity, vulgarity and silliness, which many people have, to believe that it is smart and witty to copy to the letter what is said by the company in which they may happen to be. The barrister repeated the name incessantly, but with a smile, for he felt that he was exhibiting at once the good terms on which he stood with the head waiter and his own superior station. And the head waiter, whenever he caught the sound of his own name, smiled too, as though touched and at the same time proud, shewing that he was conscious of the honour and could appreciate the pleasantry.
他会整天重复“艾梅”这个名字，其结果之一是，当他请人吃饭时，客人会说“我看得出来，你在这个地方很自在”，并且会觉得自己有义务保持沉默。 ，在说“Aimé”时，也从这种趋势出发，结合了许多人所具有的胆怯、粗俗和愚蠢的元素，相信将公司所说的话抄写到可能发生的事情是聪明和机智的成为。大律师不断地重复这个名字，但面带微笑，因为他觉得他立即表现出了他与领班的良好关系和他自己的优越地位。而领班，每当听到自己的名字时，也会微笑，似乎很感动，同时又很自豪，表明他是有荣誉感的，也能体会到这种客气的。

Terrifying as I always found these meals, in the vast restaurant, generally full, of the mammoth hotel, they became even more terrifying when there arrived for a few days the Proprietor (or he may have been only the General Manager, appointed by a board of directors) not only of this ‘palace’ but of seven or eight more besides, situated at all the four corners of France, in each of which, travelling continuously, he would spend a week now and again. Then, just after dinner had begun, there appeared every evening in the doorway of the dining-room this small man with white hair and a red nose, astonishingly neat and impassive, who was known, it appeared, as well in London as at Monte-Carlo, as one of the leading hotel-keepers in Europe. Once when I had gone out for a moment at the beginning of dinner, as I came in again I passed close by him, and he bowed to me, but with a coldness in which I could not distinguish whether it should be attributed to the reserve of a man who could never forget what he was, or to his contempt for a customer of so little importance. To those whose importance was considerable the Managing Director would bow, with quite as much coldness but more deeply, lowering his eyelids with a reverence that was almost offended modesty, as though he had found himself confronted, at a funeral, with the father of the deceased or with the Blessed Sacrament. Except for these icy and infrequent salutations, he made not the slightest movement, as if to show that his glittering eyes, which appeared to be starting out of his head, saw everything, controlled everything, assured to us in the ‘Hotel dinner’ perfection in every detail as well as a general harmony. He felt, evidently, that he was more than the producer of a play, than the conductor of an orchestra, nothing less than a general in supreme command. Having decided that a contemplation carried to its utmost intensity would suffice to assure him that everything was in readiness, that no mistake had been made which could lead to disaster,—to invest him, in a word, with full responsibility, he abstained not merely from any gesture but even from moving his eyes, which, petrified by the intensity of their gaze, took in and directed everything that was going on. I felt that even the movements of my spoon did not escape him, and were he to vanish after the soup, for the whole of dinner the review that he had held would have taken away my appetite. His own was exceedingly good, as one could see at luncheon, which he took like an ordinary guest of the hotel at a table that anyone else might have had in the public dining-room. His table had this peculiarity only, that by his side, while he was eating, the other manager, the resident one, remained standing all the time to make conversation. For being subordinate to this Managing Director he was anxious to please a man of whom he lived in constant fear. My fear of him diminished during these luncheons, for being then lost in the crowd of visitors he would exercise the discretion of a general sitting in a restaurant where there are also private soldiers, in not seeming to take any notice of them. Nevertheless when the porter, from among a cluster of pages, announced to me: ‘He leaves to-morrow morning for Dinard. Then he’s going down to Biarritz, and after that to Cannes,’ I began to breathe more freely.
可怕的是，我总是在这家庞大的酒店的大餐厅里发现这些饭菜，通常都客满了，当业主（或者他可能只是由董事会任命的总经理）到达几天时，它们变得更加可怕董事）不仅是这座“宫殿”，还有另外七八个，分布在法国的四个角落，他不断地旅行，时不时地在每一个地方待上一周。然后，晚餐一开始，每天晚上餐厅门口都会出现一个白发红鼻子的小个子男人，他出奇地整洁，冷漠，看来他在伦敦和蒙特都出名。 -卡洛，欧洲领先的酒店经营者之一。有一次，我在晚餐开始时出去了一会儿，当我再次进来时，我从他身边走过，他向我鞠躬，但态度冷淡，我无法辨别这是否应该归因于矜持。一个永远不会忘记自己是谁的人，或者他对一个如此不重要的顾客的蔑视。对于那些非常重要的人，总经理会鞠躬，态度相当冷淡，但更深，低下眼睑，带着一种几乎冒犯了谦虚的崇敬，就好像他发现自己在葬礼上面对着公司的父亲一样。死者或与圣礼。除了这些冰冷的、不常见的问候之外，他没有做出任何轻微的动作，仿佛在表明他那双闪闪发光的眼睛，似乎是从他的脑海中开始的，看到了一切，控制着一切，向我们保证“酒店晚餐”的完美每个细节以及总体和谐。 显然，他觉得自己不仅仅是一部戏剧的制片人，不仅仅是一个管弦乐队的指挥，更是一位最高统帅的将军。他决定，进行最大限度的沉思就足以向他保证一切都已准备就绪，没有犯下任何可能导致灾难的错误——总之，让他承担全部责任，他不仅弃权了任何手势，甚至是他的眼睛的移动，他的眼睛被他们的目光的强度吓呆了，捕捉并指挥着正在发生的一切。我觉得连勺子的动作都没有逃过他的视线，如果他喝完汤就消失了，那么整个晚餐他所进行的评论就会夺走我的胃口。他自己的饭菜非常好，正如我们在午餐时看到的那样，他像酒店的普通客人一样坐在一张其他人可能在公共餐厅里吃过的桌子上。他的桌子只有一个特点，就是在他吃饭的时候，另一位经理，也就是常驻的经理，一直站在他身边聊天。作为这位总经理的下属，他急于取悦一个他一直生活在恐惧之中的人。在这些午餐期间，我对他的恐惧减少了，因为当他迷失在游客的人群中时，他会像坐在餐厅里的将军一样谨慎行事，那里也有私人士兵，似乎没有注意到他们。尽管如此，当门房从一群侍者中向我宣布：“他明天早上出发前往迪纳尔”。然后他要去比亚里茨，然后去戛纳，”我开始呼吸更加自由。

My life in the hotel was rendered not only dull because I had no friends there but uncomfortable because Françoise had made so many. It might be thought that they would have made things easier for us in various respects. Quite the contrary. The proletariat, if they succeeded only with great difficulty in being treated as people she knew by Françoise, and could not succeed at all unless they fulfilled the condition of shewing the utmost politeness to her, were, on the other hand, once they had reached the position, the only people who ‘counted.’ Her time-honoured code taught her that she was in no way bound to the friends of her employers, that she might, if she was busy, shut the door without ceremony in the face of a lady who had come to call on my grandmother. But towards her own acquaintance, that is to say, the select handful of the lower orders whom she admitted to an unconquerable intimacy, her actions were regulated by the most subtle and most stringent of protocols. Thus Françoise having made the acquaintance of the man in the coffee-shop and of a little maid who did dressmaking for a Belgian lady, no longer came upstairs immediately after luncheon to get my grandmother’s things ready, but came an hour later, because the coffee man had wanted to make her a cup of coffee or a tisane in his shop, or the maid had invited her to go and watch her sew, and to refuse either of them would have been impossible, and one of the things that were not done. Moreover, particular attention was due to the little sewing-maid, who was an orphan and had been brought up by strangers to whom she still went occasionally for a few days’ holiday. Her unusual situation aroused Franchise’s pity, and also a benevolent contempt. She, who had a family, a little house that had come to her from her parents, with a field in which her brother kept his cows, how could she regard so uprooted a creature as her equal? And since this girl hoped, on Assumption Day, to be allowed to pay her benefactors a visit, Françoise kept on repeating: ‘She does make me laugh! She says, ‘I hope to be going home for the Assumption.’ ‘Home!’ says she! It isn’t just that it’s not her own place, they’re people who took her in from nowhere, and the creature says ‘home’ just as if it really was her home. Poor girl! What a wretched state she must be in, not to know what it is to have a home.’ Still, if Françoise had associated only with the ladies’-maids brought to the hotel by other visitors, who fed with her in the ‘service’ quarters and, seeing her grand lace cap and her handsome profile, took her perhaps for some lady of noble birth, whom ‘reduced circumstances,’ or a personal attachment had driven to serve as companion to my grandmother, if in a word Françoise had known only people who did not belong to the hotel, no great harm would have been done, since she could not have prevented them from doing us any service, for the simple reason that in no circumstances, even without her knowledge, would it have been possible for them to serve us at all. But she had formed connexions also with one of the wine waiters, with a man in the kitchen, and with the head chambermaid of our landing. And the result of this in our everyday life was that Françoise, who on the day of her arrival, when she still did not know anypne, would set all the bells jangling for the slightest thing, at an hour when my grandmother and I would never have dared to ring, and if we offered some gentle admonition answered: ‘Well, we’re paying enough for it, aren’t we?’ as though it were she herself that would have to pay; nowadays, since she had made friends with a personage in the kitchen, which had appeared to us to augur well for our future comfort, were my grandmother or I to complain of cold feet, Françoise, even at an hour that was quite normal, dared not ring; she assured us that it would give offence because they would have to light the furnace again, or because it would interrupt the servants’ dinner and they would be annoyed. And she ended with a formula that, in spite of the ambiguous way in which she uttered it, was none the less clear, and put us plainly in the wrong: ‘The fact is...’ We did not insist, for fear of bringing upon ourselves another, far more serious: ‘It’s a matter...!’ So that it amounted to this, that we could no longer have any hot water because Françoise had become a friend of the man who would have to heat it.
我在酒店的生活不仅因为在那里没有朋友而变得沉闷，而且因为弗朗索瓦丝做了这么多而感到不舒服。人们可能会认为它们会在各个方面让我们的事情变得更容易。恰恰相反。无产阶级，如果他们要费很大的劲才能被弗朗索瓦丝当作她认识的人对待，而且除非他们满足对她表现出最大礼貌的条件，否则根本不可能成功，但另一方面，一旦他们达到了她的历史悠久的准则告诉她，她绝不受雇主朋友的约束，如果她很忙，她可能会在雇主面前不客气地关上门。一位来拜访我祖母的女士。但对于她自己的熟人，也就是说，她承认与她有着不可征服的亲密关系的少数下层人士，她的行为受​​到最微妙和最严格的协议的约束。于是，弗朗索瓦丝结识了咖啡店里的那个男人和一个为一位比利时女士做衣服的小女仆，午饭后不再立即上楼去准备我祖母的东西，而是一个小时后才来，因为咖啡男人想在他的店里给她泡一杯咖啡或一杯草药，或者女仆邀请她去看她缝纫，拒绝其中任何一个都是不可能的，而其中一件没有做的事情。此外，特别受到关注的是那个小缝纫女工，她是个孤儿，是由陌生人带大的，她仍然偶尔去拜访这些陌生人，度过几天的假期。她的异常处境引起了弗兰契斯的怜悯，同时也引起了仁慈的蔑视。 她有一个家庭，有父母给她的一栋小房子，有一块田地，她的兄弟在里面养牛，她怎么能把一个如此背井离乡的生物与她平等呢？由于这个女孩希望在圣母升天节那天能够拜访她的恩人，弗朗索瓦丝不断重复：“她确实让我发笑！”她说：“我希望回家过圣母升天节。”“回家！”她说！这不仅仅是因为这不是她自己的地方，而是他们不知从哪里把她带进来的人，而这个生物说“家”，就好像那真的是她的家一样。可怜的姑娘！她一定处于多么悲惨的境地，不知道拥有一个家意味着什么。”尽管如此，如果弗朗索瓦丝只与其他客人带到酒店的女仆交往，她们在“服务中与她一起吃饭” ” 宿舍，看到她那顶华丽的蕾丝帽子和英俊的侧影，也许把她当成某个出身高贵的女士，“环境条件有限”，或者个人依恋驱使她成为我祖母的伴侣，如果弗朗索瓦丝一句话概括的话只认识不属于酒店的人，不会造成太大的伤害，因为她无法阻止他们为我们提供任何服务，原因很简单，在任何情况下，即使在她不知情的情况下，也不会造成任何伤害。他们完全有可能为我们服务。但她也与一位酒侍、厨房里的一名男子以及我们平台的女服务员建立了联系。 在我们的日常生活中，这种情况的结果是弗朗索瓦丝，在她到达的那天，当她仍然不认识任何人时，她会把所有的钟声都弄得叮当作响，因为最轻微的事情，在我和祖母永远不会做的时候。她们敢于按铃，如果我们提出一些温和的警告，就会回答：“好吧，我们已经为此付出了足够的代价，不是吗？”就好像她自己必须付出代价一样；现在，自从她和厨房里的一个人物交上了朋友，这对我们来说似乎预示着我们未来的舒适，如果我或我的祖母抱怨脚冷，弗朗索瓦丝即使在一个很正常的时间，也敢于这样做。不响铃；她向我们保证，这会冒犯他们，因为他们将不得不再次点燃炉子，或者因为这会打断仆人的晚餐，他们会生气。她以一个公式作为结尾，尽管她的表达方式模棱两可，但仍然很清楚，并且让我们明显地陷入了错误：“事实是……”我们没有坚持，因为担心我们又给自己带来了另一个更为严重的问题：“这是一个问题……！”因此，我们再也没有热水了，因为弗朗索瓦丝已经成为了那个必须加热热水的人的朋友。

In the end we too formed a connexion, in spite of but through my grandmother, for she and Mme. de Villeparisis came in collision one morning in a doorway and were obliged to accost each other, not without having first exchanged gestures of surprise and hesitation, performed movements of recoil and uncertainty, and finally uttered protestations of joy and greeting, as in some of Molière’s plays, where two actors who have been delivering long soliloquies from opposite sides of the stage, a few feet apart, are supposed not to have seen each other yet, and then suddenly catch sight of each other, cannot believe their eyes, break off what they are saying and finally address each other (the chorus having meanwhile kept the dialogue going) and fall into each other’s arms. Mme. de Villeparisis was tactful, and made as if to leave my grandmother to herself after the first greetings, but my grandmother insisted on her staying to talk to her until luncheon, being anxious to discover how her friend managed to get her letters sent up to her earlier than we got ours, and to get such nice grilled things (for Mme. de Villeparisis, a great epicure, had the poorest opinion of the hotel kitchen which served us with meals that my grandmother, still quoting Mme. de Sévigné, described as ‘of a magnificence to make you die of hunger.’) And the Marquise formed the habit of coming every day, until her own meal was ready, to sit down for a moment at our table in the dining-room, insisting that we should not rise from our chairs or in any way put ourselves out. At the most we would linger, as often as not, in the room after finishing our luncheon, to talk to her, at that sordid moment when the knives are left littering the tablecloth among crumpled napkins. For my own part, so as to preserve (in order that I might be able to enjoy Balbec) the idea that I was on the uttermost promontory of the earth, I compelled myself to look farther afield, to notice only the sea, to seek in it the effects described by Baudelaire and to let my gaze fall upon our table only on days when there was set on it some gigantic fish, some marine monster, which unlike the knives and forks was contemporary with the primitive epochs in which the Ocean first began to teem with life, in the Cimmerians’ time, a fish whose body with its numberless vertebrae, its blue veins and red, had been constructed by nature, but according to an architectural plan, like a polychrome cathedral of the deep.
最终，我们也通过我的祖母，为她和夫人建立了联系。一天早上，德维尔帕里西斯在门口发生冲突，不得不互相搭话，首先交换了惊讶和犹豫的手势，做出了退缩和不确定的动作，最后发出了喜悦和问候的声明，就像莫里哀的一​​些作品中那样。戏剧中，两个演员在舞台两侧相距几英尺，一直在进行长篇独白，他们本应该还没有见过对方，然后突然看到对方，简直不敢相信自己的眼睛，打断了什么他们说话并最终互相讲话（同时合唱团继续对话）并投入彼此的怀抱。女士。德维尔帕里西斯很机智，在第一次问候后就好像让我祖母独自一人，但我祖母坚持让她留下来和她说话直到午餐，她急于想知道她的朋友是如何设法把信寄给她的在我们得到我们的之前，并得到如此美味的烤东西（德维尔帕里西斯夫人，一位伟大的美食家，对酒店厨房的评价最差，酒店厨房为我们提供的饭菜，我的祖母仍然引用德塞维涅夫人的话，将其描述为“华丽得让你饿死。”）侯爵夫人养成了每天来的习惯，直到她自己的饭菜做好了，才在餐厅的餐桌旁坐一会儿，坚持要求我们应该不要从椅子上站起来或以任何方式让自己出去。最多我们会在吃完午饭后在房间里逗留，和她说话，在那个肮脏的时刻，刀子被扔在桌布上，餐巾被弄皱了。 就我个人而言，为了保持（以便我能够享受巴尔贝克）我身处地球最远海角的想法，我强迫自己看向更远的地方，只注意到大海，去寻找波德莱尔所描述的效果，只有在桌子上摆着一些巨大的鱼，一些海洋怪物的日子里，我的目光才落在我们的桌子上，与刀叉不同，它与海洋首先出现的原始时代同时代。在西梅里安人的时代，一种鱼开始充满生命，它的身体有无数的椎骨，蓝色和红色的静脉，是大自然建造的，但按照建筑规划，就像一座深海的彩色大教堂。

As a barber, seeing an officer whom he is accustomed to shave with special deference and care recognise a customer who has just entered the shop and stop for a moment to talk to him, rejoices in the thought that these are two men of the same social order, and cannot help smiling as he goes to fetch the bowl of soap, for he knows that in his establishment,’ to the vulgar routine of a mere barber’s-shop, are being added social, not to say aristocratic pleasures, so Aimé, seeing that Mme. de Villeparisis had found in us old friends, went to fetch our finger-bowls with precisely the smile, proudly modest and knowingly discreet, of a hostess who knows when to leave her guests to themselves. He suggested also a pleased and loving father who looks on, without interfering, at the happy pair who have plighted their troth at his hospitable board. Besides, it was enough merely to utter the name of a person of title for Aimé to appear pleased, unlike Françoise, before whom you could not mention Count So-and-so without her face darkening and her speech becoming dry and sharp, all of which meant that she worshipped the aristocracy not less than Aimé but far more. But then Françoise had that quality which in others she condemned as the worst possible fault; she was proud. She was not of that friendly and good-humoured race to which Aimé belonged. They feel, they exhibit an intense delight when you tell them a piece of news which may be more or less sensational but is at any rate new, and not to be found in the papers. Françoise declined to appear surprised. You might have announced in her hearing that the Archduke Rudolf—not that she had the least suspicion of his having ever existed—was not, as was generally supposed, dead, but ‘alive and kicking’; she would have answered only ‘Yes,’ as though she had known it all the time. It may, however, have been that if even from our own lips, from us whom she so meekly called her masters, who had so nearly succeeded in taming her, she could not, without having to check an angry start, hear the name of a noble, that was because the family from which she had sprung occupied in its own village a comfortable and independent position, and was not to be threatened in the consideration which it enjoyed save by those same nobles, in whose households, meanwhile, from his boyhood, an Aimé would have been domiciled as a servant, if not actually brought up by their charity. Of Françoise, then, Mme. de Villeparisis must ask pardon, first, for her nobility. But (in France, at any rate) that is precisely the talent, in fact the sole occupation of our great gentlemen and ladies. Françoise, following the common tendency of servants, who pick up incessantly from the conversation of their masters with other people fragmentary observations from which they are apt to draw erroneous inductions, as the human race generally does with respect to the habits of animals, was constantly discovering that somebody had ‘failed’ us, a conclusion to which she was easily led, not so much, perhaps, by her extravagant love for us, as by the delight that she took in being disagreeable to us. But having once established, without possibility of error, the endless little attentions paid to us, and paid to herself also by Mme. de Villeparisis, Françoise forgave her for being a Marquise, and, as she had never ceased to be proud of her because she was one, preferred her thenceforward to all our other friends. It must be added that no one else took the trouble to be so continually nice to us. Whenever my grandmother remarked on a book that Mme. de Villeparisis was reading, or said she had been admiring the fruit which some one had just sent to our friend, within an hour the footman would come to our rooms with book or fruit. And the next time we saw her, in response to our thanks, she would say only, seeming to seek some excuse for the meagreness of her present in some special use to which it might be put: ‘It’s nothing wonderful, but the newspapers come so late here, one must have something to read.’ Or, ‘It is always wiser to have fruit one can be quite certain of, at the seaside.’—‘But I don’t believe I’ve ever seen you eating oysters,’ she said to us, increasing the sense of disgust which I felt at that moment, for the living flesh of the oyster revolted me even more than the gumminess of the stranded jellyfish defiled for me the beach at Balbec; ‘they are delicious down here! Oh, let me tell my maid to fetch your letters when she goes for mine. What, your daughter writes every day? But what on earth can you find to say to each other?’ My grandmother was silent, but it may be assumed that her silence was due to scorn, in her who used to repeat, when she wrote to Mamma, the words of Mme. de Sévigné: ‘As soon as I have received a letter, I want another at once; I cannot breathe until it comes. There are few who are worthy to understand what I mean.’ And I was afraid of her applying to Mme. de Villeparisis the conclusion: ‘I seek out those who are of the chosen few, and I avoid the rest.’ She fell back upon praise of the fruit which Mme. de Villeparisis had sent us the day before. And this had been, indeed, so fine that the manager, in spite of the jealousy aroused by our neglect of his official offerings, had said to me: ‘I am like you; I’m madder about fruit than any other kind of dessert.’ My grandmother told her friend that she had enjoyed them all the more because the fruit which we got in the hotel was generally horrid. ‘I cannot,’ she went on, ‘say, like Mme. de Sévigné, that if we should take a sudden fancy for bad fruit we should be obliged to order it from Paris.’ ‘Oh yes, of course, you read Mme. de Sévigné. I saw you with her letters the day you came.’ (She forgot that she had never officially seen my grandmother in the hotel until their collision in the doorway.) ‘Don’t you find it rather exaggerated, her constant anxiety about her daughter? She refers to it too often to be really sincere. She is not natural.’ My grandmother felt that any discussion would be futile, and so as not to be obliged to speak of the things she loved to a person incapable of understanding them, concealed by laying her bag upon them the Mémoires de Mme. de Beausergent.
作为一个理发师，看到一个他习惯于特别尊重和小心地刮胡子的官员认出一个刚进店的顾客并停下来与他交谈一会儿，想到这是两个具有相同社会背景的人，他感到很高兴秩序，当他去拿肥皂碗时，他情不自禁地微笑着，因为他知道，在他的机构中，“除了理发店的粗俗惯例之外，还增加了社交，更不用说贵族的乐趣了，所以艾梅，看到那位女士。德·维尔帕里西斯在我们身上找到了老朋友，她带着微笑去取我们的手指碗，带着自豪的谦虚和知性的谨慎，就像一位知道什么时候让客人独自待着的女主人。他还提出了一位快乐而慈爱的父亲，他会看着这对幸福的夫妇，而不会干涉他们在他热情好客的董事会中发誓。此外，仅仅说出一个有头衔的人的名字就足以让艾梅表现得很高兴，不像弗朗索瓦丝，在她面前提到某某伯爵，她的脸色就会变得阴沉，说话也会变得干巴巴、尖刻，所有这些都是如此。这意味着她对贵族的崇拜不亚于艾梅，甚至更甚。但弗朗索瓦丝却有一种品质，而她在其他人身上却谴责这种品质是最糟糕的错误。她很自豪。她不像艾梅那样友善、幽默。他们觉得，当你告诉他们一则或多或少耸人听闻但至少是新的、在报纸上找不到的新闻时，他们会表现出强烈的喜悦。弗朗索瓦丝没有表现出惊讶的样子。 你可能会在她的听证会上宣布，鲁道夫大公——并不是说她对他的存在有丝毫怀疑——并不像人们普遍认为的那样死了，而是“活生生”；她只会回答“是”，就好像她一直都知道一样。然而，也可能是，即使从我们自己的嘴里，从我们口中，从我们口中，她如此温顺地称她为主人，我们几乎成功地驯服了她，她也无法在不愤怒的惊吓中听到这个名字。一个贵族，这是因为她出身的家庭在自己的村庄里占据着舒适而独立的地位，除了那些贵族之外，它所享有的考虑不会受到威胁，而在他们的家庭中，同时，来自他的贵族童年时期，如果不是由他们的慈善机构抚养长大，艾梅人就会以仆人的身份定居。那么，弗朗索瓦丝夫人。德·维尔帕里西斯首先必须请求宽恕，以换取她的高贵身份。但（至少在法国）这正是才华，事实上是我们伟大的先生们和女士们的唯一职业。弗朗索瓦丝遵循仆人的普遍倾向，他们不断地从主人与其他人的谈话中获取零碎的观察，从中他们很容易得出错误的归纳，就像人类通常对动物的习惯所做的那样，不断地发现有人让我们“失望”了，她很容易就得出这样的结论，也许不是因为她对我们过分的爱，而是因为她因与我们不愉快而感到高兴。但是一旦确定了，毫无错误的可能性，夫人对我们以及她自己都给予了无尽的关注。 德·维尔帕里西斯，弗朗索瓦丝原谅了她作为侯爵夫人的事实，并且因为她是侯爵夫人而一直为她感到骄傲，从那时起，弗朗索瓦丝就更喜欢她胜过我们所有其他朋友。必须补充一点的是，没有其他人不厌其烦地对我们如此友善。每当我的祖母评论一本书时，Mme. de Villeparisis 正在读书，或者说她一直在欣赏某人刚刚送给我们朋友的水果，一小时内男仆就会带着书或水果来到我们的房间。下次我们见到她时，为了回应我们的感谢，她只会说，似乎是在为她礼物的贫乏寻找一些借口，因为它可能有某种特殊的用途：“这没什么了不起的，但是报纸来了这么晚了，你必须有东西可读。”或者，“在海边拥有可以确定的水果总是更明智的做法。”——“但我不相信我见过你吃牡蛎。 ”她对我们说，这让我当时的厌恶感更加强烈，因为牡蛎的活肉让我感到厌恶，甚至比搁浅的水母粘稠的东西更让我厌恶，它玷污了巴尔贝克的海滩； ‘这里的东西真好吃！哦，让我告诉我的女仆，当她去取我的信时，把你的信取来。什么，你女儿每天都写？但你们到底能找到什么来互相说呢？”我的祖母沉默了，但可以认为她的沉默是由于她的轻蔑，她过去常常在给妈妈写信时重复夫人的话。 de Sévigné：“当我收到一封信时，我立即想要另一封信；在它到来之前我无法呼吸。很少有人值得理解我的意思。”而且我担心她会向我夫人提出申请。德·维尔帕里的结论是：“我寻找那些被选中的少数人，而避开其余的人。”’她又对夫人所结的果实表示赞扬。德维尔帕里西斯是前一天派我们来的。事实上，这真是太好了，以至于经理尽管因我们忽视他的官方供品而引起了嫉妒，但还是对我说：“我和你一样；我是你的。”我对水果的迷恋胜过对其他任何一种甜点。”我的祖母告诉她的朋友，她更喜欢水果，因为我们在酒店得到的水果通常都很糟糕。 “我不能，”她继续说，“像夫人那样说。 “哦，是的，当然，你读过夫人。德塞维涅。你来的那天，我看到你带着她的信。”（她忘记了，直到他们在门口相撞之前，她从未正式在酒店见过我的祖母。）“你不觉得这很夸张吗，她对女儿的持续焦虑？她经常提到这件事，显得不够真诚。她不自然。”我的祖母觉得任何讨论都是徒劳的，为了避免被迫向一个无法理解的人讲述她所爱的事情，她把她的书包放在上面，把《夫人回忆录》藏起来。德博塞让。

Were she to encounter Françoise at the moment (which Françoise called ‘the noon’) when, wearing her fine cap and surrounded with every mark of respect, she was coming downstairs to ‘feed with the service,’ Mme. Villeparisis would stop her to ask after us. And Françoise, when transmitting to us the Marquise’s message: ‘She said to me, ‘You’ll be sure and bid them good day,’ she said,’ counterfeited the voice of Mme. de Villeparisis, whose exact words she imagined herself to be quoting textu-ally, whereas she was really corrupting them no less than Plato corrupts the words of Socrates or Saint John the words of Jesus. Françoise, as was natural, was deeply touched by these attentions. Only she did not believe my grandmother, but supposed that she must be lying in the interest of her class (the rich always combining thus to support one another) when she assured us that Mme. de Villeparisis had been lovely as a young woman. It was true that of this loveliness only the faintest trace remained, from which no one—unless he happened to be a great deal more of an artist than Françoise—would have been able to restore her ruined beauty. For in order to understand how beautiful an elderly woman can once have been one must not only study but interpret every line of her face.
如果她在此刻（弗朗索瓦丝称之为“中午”）遇到弗朗索瓦丝，她戴着精美的帽子，周围充满了敬意，正在下楼“用服务吃饭”，夫人。维尔帕里西斯会阻止她询问我们的情况。弗朗索瓦丝在向我们传达侯爵夫人的信息时说：“她对我说，‘你一定会向他们问好，’她说，”模仿了侯爵夫人的声音。德·维尔帕里西斯的原话，她想象自己是在原文中引用的，而她实际上正在歪曲这些话，就像柏拉图歪曲苏格拉底的话或圣约翰歪曲耶稣的话一样。弗朗索瓦丝自然被这些关注深深感动。只是她不相信我的祖母，但当她向我们保证夫人时，她认为她一定是为了她阶级的利益而撒谎（富人总是这样相互支持）。德维尔帕里西斯年轻时很可爱。确实，这种可爱只留下了最微弱的痕迹，没有人——除非他碰巧比弗朗索瓦丝更像一位艺术家——能够恢复她被毁坏的美丽。因为为了了解一位老年妇女曾经有多美丽，我们不仅必须研究而且还要解读她脸上的每一条线条。

‘I must remember, some time, to ask her whether I’m not right, after all, in thinking that there is some connexion with the Guermantes,’ said my grandmother, to my great indignation. How could I be expected to believe in a common origin uniting two names which had entered my consciousness, one through the low and shameful gate of experience, the other by the golden gate of imagination?
“我必须记得找个时间问问她，我认为与盖尔芒特家族有某种联系是否正确，”我的祖母说道，这让我非常愤慨。我怎么能相信一个共同的起源将两个进入我意识的名字结合在一起，一个通过低级而可耻的经验之门，另一个通过想象的金门？

We had several times, in the last few days, seen driving past us in a stately equipage, tall, auburn, handsome, with a rather prominent nose, the Princesse de Luxembourg, who was staying in the neighbourhood for a few weeks. Her carriage had stopped outside the hotel, a footman had come in and spoken to the manager, had gone back to the carriage and had reappeared with the most amazing armful of fruit (which combined in a single basket, like the bay itself, different seasons) with a card: ‘La Princesse de Luxembourg,’ on which were scrawled a few words in pencil. For what princely traveller sojourning here incognito, could they be intended, those glaucous plums, luminous and spherical as was at that moment the circumfluent sea, transparent grapes clustering on a shrivelled stick, like a fine day in autumn, pears of a heavenly ultramarine? For it could not be on my grandmother’s friend that the Princess had meant to pay a call. And yet on the following evening Mme. de Villeparisis sent us the bunch of grapes, cool, liquid, golden; plums too and pears which we remembered, though the plums had changed, like the sea at our dinner-hour, to a dull purple, and on the ultramarine surface of the pears there floated the forms of a few rosy clouds. A few days later we met Mme. de Villeparisis as we came away from the symphony concert that was given every morning on the beach. Convinced that the music to which I had been listening (the Prelude to Lohengrin, the Overture to Tannhäuser and suchlike) expressed the loftiest of truths, I was trying to elevate myself, as far as I could, so as to attain to a comprehension of them, I was extracting from myself so as to understand them, and was attributing to them, all that was best and most profound in my own nature at that time.
在过去的几天里，我们有好几次看到卢森堡公主驾着一辆庄严的马车从我们身边驶过，她身材高大，赤褐色，英俊，鼻子相当突出，她在附近住了几个星期。她的马车停在酒店外面，一名男仆进来和经理交谈，然后回到马车上，带着一大堆令人惊奇的水果再次出现（这些水果组合在一个篮子里，就像海湾本身一样，不同季节的水果） ）和一张卡片：“卢森堡公主”，上面用铅笔潦草地写着几个字。那些隐姓埋名地在此逗留的王子旅行者，那些白霜的李子，像此刻环流的大海一样明亮而圆润，透明的葡萄簇拥在干枯的棍子上，像秋日的晴天，天上的群青梨，是为了什么？因为公主不可能是打算拜访我祖母的朋友。然而第二天晚上，夫人。 de Villeparisis 给我们送来了一串葡萄，凉爽、液体、金黄；还有我们记得的李子和梨子，尽管李子已经像我们晚餐时的大海一样，变成了暗紫色，梨子深蓝色的表面上漂浮着几朵玫瑰色的云朵。几天后，我们见到了夫人。当我们结束每天早上在海滩上举行的交响音乐会时，我们看到了 de Villeparisis。我深信我所听的音乐（《罗恩格林》前奏曲、《唐怀瑟》序曲等）表达了最崇高的真理，我试图尽我所能地提升自己，以便理解我从自己身上提取并理解它们，并将当时我本性中最好、最深刻的一切归因于它们。

Well, as we came out of the concert, and, on our way back to the hotel, had stopped for a moment on the ‘front,’ my grandmother and I, for a few words with Mme. de Villeparisis who told us that she had ordered some croque-monsieurs and a dish of creamed eggs for us at the hotel, I saw, a long way away, coming in our direction, the Princesse de Luxembourg, half leaning upon a parasol in such a way as to impart to her tall and wonderful form that slight inclination, to make it trace that arabesque dear to the women who had been beautiful under the Empire, and knew how, with drooping shoulders, arched backs, concave hips and bent limbs, to make their bodies float as gently as a silken scarf about the rigidity of the invisible stem which might be supposed to have been passed diagonally through them. She went out every morning for a turn on the beach almost at the time when everyone else, after bathing, was climbing home to luncheon, and as hers was not until half past one she did not return to her villa until long after the hungry bathers had left the scorching ‘front’ a desert. Mme. de Villeparisis presented my grandmother and would have presented me, but had first to ask me my name, which she could not remember. She had, perhaps, never known it, or if she had must have forgotten years ago to whom my grandmother had married her daughter. My name, when she did hear it, appeared to impress Mme. de Villeparisis considerably. Meanwhile the Princesse de Luxembourg had given us her hand and, now and again, while she conversed with the Marquise, turned to bestow a kindly glance on my grandmother and myself, with that embryonic kiss which we put into our smiles when they are addressed to a baby out with its ‘Nana.’ Indeed, in her anxiety not to appear to be a denizen of a higher sphere than ours, she had probably miscalculated the distance there was indeed between us, for by an error in adjustment she made her eyes beam with such benevolence that I could see the moment approaching when she would put out her hand and stroke us, as if we were two nice beasts and had poked our heads out at her through the bars of our cage in the Gardens. And, immediately, as it happened, this idea of caged animals and the Bois de Boulogne received striking confirmation. It was the time of day at which the beach is crowded by itinerant and clamorous vendors, hawking cakes and sweets and biscuits. Not knowing quite what to do to shew her affection for us, the Princess hailed the next that came by; he had nothing left but one rye-cake, of the kind one throws to the ducks. The Princess took it and said to me: ‘For your grandmother.’ And yet it was to me that she held it out, saying with a friendly smile, ‘You shall give it to her yourself!’ thinking that my pleasure would thus be more complete if there were no intermediary between myself and the animals. Other vendors came up; she stuffed my pockets with everything that they had, tied up in packets, comfits, sponge-cakes, sugar-sticks. ‘You will eat some yourself,’ she told me, ‘and give some to your grandmother,’ and she had the vendors paid by the little Negro page, dressed in red satin, who followed her everywhere and was a nine days’ wonder upon the beach. Then she said good-bye to Mme. de Villeparisis and held out her hand to us with the intention of treating us in the same way as she treated her friend, as people whom she knew, and of bringing herself within our reach. But this time she must have reckoned our level as not quite so low in the scale of creation, for her and our equality was indicated by the Princess to my grandmother by that tender and maternal smile which a woman gives a little boy when she says good-bye to him as though to a grown-up person. By a miraculous stride in evolution, my grandmother was no longer a duck or an antelope, but had already become what the anglophil Mme. Swann would have called a ‘baby.’ Finally, having taken leave of us all, the Princess resumed her stroll along the basking ‘front,’ curving her splendid shape which, like a serpent coiled about a wand, was interlaced with the white parasol patterned in blue which Mme. de Luxembourg held, unopened, in her hand. She was my first Royalty—I say my first, for strictly speaking Princesse Mathilde did not count. The second, as we shall see in due course, was to astonish me no less by her indulgence. One of the ways in which our great nobles, kindly intermediaries between commoners and kings, can befriend us was revealed to me next day when Mme. de Villeparisis reported: ‘She thought you quite charming. She is a woman of the soundest judgment, the warmest heart. Not like so many Queens and people! She has real merit.’ And Mme. de Villeparisis went on in a tone of conviction, and quite thrilled to be able to say it to us: ‘I am sure she would be delighted to see you again.’
好吧，当我们从音乐会结束后，在返回酒店的路上，我和祖母在“前面”停了一会儿，与夫人聊了几句话。德维尔帕里西斯告诉我们，她在旅馆里为我们点了一些法式三明治和一盘奶油鸡蛋，我看到，远远地，卢森堡公主正半靠在阳伞上，朝我们的方向走来。一种方法可以赋予她高大而美妙的体形一种轻微的倾向，让它呈现出帝国时期美丽的女性所喜爱的阿拉伯式花纹，她们知道如何用下垂的肩膀、拱起的背部、凹下的臀部和弯曲的四肢，让他们的身体像丝巾一样轻轻地漂浮在看不见的茎的刚性上，而这根茎可能被认为是斜穿过他们的。她每天早上都出去在海滩上转一圈，几乎是在其他人洗完澡后爬回家吃午饭的时候，而她的午餐直到一点半才回到别墅，直到饥饿的沐浴者结束后很久才回到别墅。让灼热的“前线”变成了沙漠。女士。德维尔帕里西斯介绍了我的祖母，本来也想介绍我，但必须先问我的名字，但她不记得了。也许她从来不知道这一点，或者如果她一定已经忘记了几年前我祖母把她的女儿嫁给了谁。当她听到我的名字时，她似乎给我留下了深刻的印象。 de Villeparisis 相当大。与此同时，卢森堡公主向我们伸出了她的手，当她与侯爵夫人交谈时，她时不时地转过身来善意地看了一眼我的祖母和我自己，当我们向他们致意时，我们在微笑中投入了那个胚胎般的吻。一个婴儿带着它的“娜娜”出去了。”事实上，她担心自己不显得是比我们更高的领域的居民，她可能错误地计算了我们之间的距离，因为由于调整错误，她的眼睛里闪烁着仁慈的光芒，我可以看到就在她伸出手抚摸我们的那一刻，就好像我们是两只可爱的野兽，从花园里笼子的栅栏里探出头来看着她。而且，正如事情发生的那样，关在笼子里的动物和布洛涅森林的想法立即得到了惊人的证实。一天中的这个时候，海滩上挤满了流动的、喧闹的小贩，兜售着蛋糕、糖果和饼干。公主不知道该怎么做才能表达她对我们的爱意，于是向下一个过来的人致意。他只剩下一块黑麦蛋糕，就是扔给鸭子的那种。公主接过它，对我说：“给你的祖母。”然而，她却把它递给了我，友好地微笑着说：“你应该亲自把它送给她！”她以为我会很乐意这样做。如果我和动物之间没有中介，那就更完整了。其他供应商也出现了；她把所有的东西都塞进我的口袋里，包好，糖果，海绵蛋糕，糖棒。 “你自己吃一些，”她告诉我，“然后给你的祖母一些，”她让小贩付钱给小黑人侍从，穿着红缎子，他到处跟着她，对她来说是一个九天的奇迹。沙滩。然后她向夫人道别。德·维尔帕里西斯向我们伸出了手，她的目的是像对待她的朋友一样对待我们，把我们当作她认识的人，让我们能够接触到她。 但这一次，她一定认为我们的水平在创造的规模上并没有那么低，因为公主向我的祖母表明了她和我们的平等，通过一个女人在说好时给小男孩的温柔和母性的微笑。 ——像向成年人一样向他告别。通过奇迹般的进化，我的祖母不再是鸭子或羚羊，而是已经变成了亲英派的夫人。斯万会称其为“宝贝”。最后，与我们大家告别后，公主继续沿着晒太阳的“前线”漫步，弯曲着她华丽的身形，就像一条盘绕在魔杖上的蛇，与白色阳伞交错在一起。蓝色图案，女士。德·卢森堡握在她手里，未开封。她是我的第一个皇室成员——我说我的第一个，因为严格来说玛蒂尔德公主不算数。第二个，正如我们稍后会看到的，她的纵容也让我感到惊讶。我们的伟大贵族，平民和国王之间的友好中间人，可以与我们交朋友的方式之一是第二天当我的夫人时向我透露的。德维尔帕里西斯报道说：“她认为你很有魅力。她是一个判断力最健全、内心最温暖的女人。不像很多女王和人！她有真正的优点。’还有夫人。德维尔帕里西斯以一种坚定的语气继续说道，并且很高兴能够对我们说：“我相信她会很高兴再次见到你。’

But on that previous morning, after we had parted from the Princesse de Luxembourg, Mme. de Villeparisis said a thing which impressed me far more and was not prompted merely by friendly feeling.
但就在前一天早上，在我们与卢森堡公主分别之后，德维尔帕里西斯说了一句话给我留下了更深刻的印象，这不仅仅是出于友好的感觉。

‘Are you,’ she had asked me, ‘the son of the Permanent Secretary at the Ministry? Indeed! I am told your father is a most charming man. He is having a splendid holiday just now.’
“你是，”她问我，“该部常务秘书的儿子吗？”的确！我听说你父亲是一个最有魅力的人。他现在正在度过一个愉快的假期。”

A few days earlier we had heard, in a letter from Mamma, that my father and his friend M. de Norpois had lost their luggage.
几天前，我们在妈妈的一封信中得知，我父亲和他的朋友德·诺普瓦先生丢了行李。

‘It has been found; as a matter of fact, it was never really lost, I can tell you what happened,’ explained Mme. de Villeparisis, who, without our knowing how, seemed to be far better informed than ourselves of the course of my father’s travels. ‘I think your father is now planning to come home earlier, next week, in fact, as he will probably give up the idea of going to Algeciras. But he is anxious to devote a day longer to Toledo; it seems, he is an admirer of a pupil of Titian,—I forget the name—whose work can only be seen properly there.’
‘已经找到了；事实上，它从未真正丢失过，我可以告诉你发生了什么，”女士解释道。德维尔帕里西斯，不知为何，他似乎比我们更了解我父亲的旅行历程。 “我认为你父亲现在计划早点回家，实际上是下周，因为他可能会放弃去阿尔赫西拉斯的想法。但他渴望在托莱多多待一天。看来，他是提香的一个学生的崇拜者——我忘记了名字——他的作品只能在那里正确地看到。

I asked myself by what strange accident, in the impartial glass through which Mme. de Villeparisis considered, from a safe distance, the bustling, tiny, purposeless agitation of the crowd of people whom she knew, there had come to be inserted at the spot through which she observed rhy father a fragment of prodigious magnifying power which made her see in such high relief and in the fullest detail everything that there was attractive about him, the contingencies that were obliging him to return home, his difficulties with the customs, his admiration for El Greco, and, altering the scale of her vision, shewed her this one man so large among all the rest quite small, like that Jupiter to whom Gustave Moreau gave, when he portrayed him by the side of a weak mortal, a superhuman stature.
我问自己，在公正的玻璃中，夫人通过什么奇怪的意外发生了。德·维尔帕里西斯在安全距离外思考着她认识的那群人熙熙攘攘的、微小的、漫无目的的骚动，在她观察父亲的地方插入了一块具有惊人放大能力的碎片，这让她看到了以如此高度的浮雕和最完整的细节，描述了他身上所有吸引人的地方，迫使他回家的意外事件，他在习俗上的困难，他对埃尔·格列柯的钦佩，并改变了她视野的范围，向她展示了这个人在所有其他人中显得如此渺小，就像古斯塔夫·莫罗（Gustave Moreau）所描绘的朱庇特（Jupiter）一样，当他将他描绘在一个弱小的凡人旁边时，他具有超人的身材。

My grandmother bade Mme. de Villeparisis good-bye, so that we might stay and imbibe the fresh air for a little while longer outside the hotel, until they signalled to us through the glazed partition that our luncheon was ready. There were sounds of tumult. The young mistress of the King of the Cannibal Island had been down to bathe and was now coming back to the hotel.
我祖母嘱咐我。德·维尔帕里向我们告别，这样我们就可以在酒店外面多呆一会儿，呼吸新鲜空气，直到他们通过玻璃隔板向我们发出午餐已经准备好的信号。一阵喧闹声传来。食人岛之王的少主刚刚去洗澡了，现在正要回酒店。

‘Really and truly, it’s a perfect plague: it’s enough to make one decide to emigrate!’ cried the barrister, who had happened to cross her path, in a towering rage.
“说实话，这是一场完美的瘟疫：它足以让一个人决定移民！”碰巧遇到她的大律师愤怒地喊道。

Meanwhile the solicitor’s wife was following the bogus Queen with eyes that seemed ready to start from their sockets.
与此同时，律师的妻子正盯着假王后，眼睛似乎要从眼窝里跳出来。

‘I can’t tell you how angry Mme. Blandais makes me when she stares at those people like that,’ said the barrister to the chief magistrate, ‘I feel I want to slap her. That is just the way to make the wretches appear important; and of course that’s the very thing they want, that people should take an interest in them. Do ask her husband to tell her what a fool she’s making of herself. I swear I won’t go out with them again if they stop and gape at those masqueraders.’
“我无法告诉你夫人有多生气。当布兰黛斯那样盯着那些人时，我很感动，”大律师对首席法官说，“我觉得我想扇她一巴掌。这正是让那些可怜虫显得重要的方法。当然，这正是他们想要的，人们应该对他们感兴趣。请她丈夫告诉她，她把自己弄得多么愚蠢。我发誓，如果他们停下来对那些伪装者张口结舌，我就不会再和他们出去了。

As to the coming of the Princesse de Luxembourg, whose carriage, on the day on which she left the fruit, had drawn up outside the hotel, it had not passed unobserved by the little group of wives, the solicitor’s, the barrister’s and the magistrate’s, who had for some time past been most concerned to know whether she was a genuine Marquise and not an adventuress, that Mme. de Villeparisis whom everyone treated with so much respect, which all these ladies were burning to hear that she did not deserve. Whenever Mme. de Villeparisis passed through the hall the chief magistrate’s wife, who scented irregularities everywhere, would raise her eyes from her ‘work’ and stare at the intruder in a way that made her friends die of laughter.
至于卢森堡公主的到来，在她留下水果的那天，她的马车停在旅馆外面，这一小群妻子、律师的、大律师的和地方法官的妻子们都注意到了这一点。过去一段时间以来，她一直最关心的是知道自己是否是一位真正的侯爵夫人，而不是一位冒险家，这位女士。每个人都对德维尔帕里西斯非常尊重，而所有这些女士听到她不值得尊重，都感到很愤怒。每当女士。德·维尔帕里西斯穿过大厅时，首席法官的妻子到处都嗅到了违规行为，她会从她的“工作”中抬起眼睛，盯着闯入者，她的眼神让她的朋友们笑死了。

‘Oh, well, you know,’ she explained with lofty condescension, ‘I always begin by believing the worst. I will never admit that a woman is properly married until she has shewn me her birth certificate and her marriage lines. But there’s no need to alarm yourselves; just wait till I’ve finished my little investigation.’
“哦，好吧，你知道，”她带着崇高的屈尊解释道，“我总是从最坏的情况开始相信。在一个女人向我展示她的出生证明和婚姻线之前，我永远不会承认她已经结婚了。但没有必要惊慌；等我完成我的小调查。”

And so, day after day the ladies would come together, and, laughingly, ask one another: ‘Any news?’
于是，日复一日，女士们聚在一起，笑着互相问：“有什么消息吗？”

But on the evening after the Princesse de Luxembourg’s call the magistrate’s wife laid a finger on her lips.
但在卢森堡公主接到电话后的那个晚上，治安法官的妻子将一根手指放在了她的嘴唇上。

‘I’ve discovered something.’
“我发现了一些东西。”

‘Oh, isn’t Mme. Poncin simply wonderful? I never saw anyone.... But do tell us! What has happened?’
哦，不是吗？庞辛简直太棒了？我从来没有见过任何人……但是请告诉我们！发生了什么事？'

‘Just listen to this. A woman with yellow hair and six inches of paint on her face and a carriage like a—you could smell it a mile off; which only a creature like that would dare to have—came here to-day to call on the Marquise, by way of!’
‘听听这个。一个黄头发的女人，脸上涂着六英寸的油漆，开着一辆马车——你在一英里外就能闻到它的味道；只有这样的人才敢——今天来这里拜访侯爵夫人，顺便说一句！

‘Oh-yow-yow! Tut-tut-tut-tut. Did you ever! Why, it must be that woman we saw—you remember, Leader,—we said at the time we didn’t at all like the look of her, but we didn’t know that it was the ‘Marquise’ sheîd come to see. A woman with a nigger-boy, you mean?’
‘噢哟哟！啧啧啧。你曾经！哎呀，一定是我们看到的那个女人——你记得，领袖——我们当时说我们一点也不喜欢她的长相，但我们不知道她来见的是‘侯爵夫人’。 。你是说一个女人带着一个黑男孩？

‘That’s the one.’
'就是那个。'

‘D’you mean to say so? You don’t happen to know her name?’
‘你是这么说的吗？你不知道她的名字吗？

‘Yes, I made a mistake on purpose; I picked up her card; she trades under the name of the ‘Princesse de Luxembourg!’ Wasn’t I right to have my doubts about her? It’s a nice thing to have to mix promiscuously with a Baronne d’Ange like that?’ The barrister quoted Mathurin Régnier’s Macette to the chief magistrate.
‘是的，我是故意犯错的；我拿起她的名片；她以“卢森堡公主”的名义进行交易！我对她的怀疑难道不是对的吗？与这样的安热男爵混在一起是件好事吗？”大律师向首席法官引用了马图林·雷尼耶的《马塞特》。

It must not, however, be supposed that this misunderstanding was merely temporary, like those that occur in the second act of a farce to be cleared up before the final curtain. Mme. de Luxembourg, a niece of the King of England and of the Emperor of Austria, and Mme. de Villeparisis, when one called to take the other for a drive, did look like nothing but two ‘old trots’ of the kind one has always such difficulty in avoiding at a watering place. Nine tenths of the men of the Faubourg Saint-Germain appear to the average man of the middle class simply as alcoholic wasters (which, individually, they not infrequently are) whom, therefore, no respectable person would dream of asking to dinner. The middle class fixes its standard, in this respect, too high, for the feelings of these men would never prevent their being received with every mark of esteem in houses which it, the middle class, may never enter. And so sincerely do they believe that the middle class knows this that they affect a simplicity in speaking of their own affairs and a tone of disparagement of their friends, especially when they are ‘at the coast,’ which make the misunderstanding complete. If, by any chance, a man of the fashionable world is kept in touch with ‘business people’ because, having more money than he knows what to do with, he finds himself elected chairman of all sorts of important financial concerns, the business man who at last sees a nobleman worthy, he considers, to rank with ‘big business,’ would take his oath that such a man can have no dealings with the Marquis ruined by gambling whom the said business man supposes to be all the more destitute of friends the more friendly he makes himself. And he cannot get over his surprise when the Duke, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the colossal undertaking, arranges a marriage for his son with the daughter of that very Marquis, who may be a gambler but who bears the oldest name in France, just as a Sovereign would sooner see his son marry the daughter of a dethroned King than that of a President still in office. That is to say, the two worlds take as fantastic! a view of one another as the inhabitants of a town situated at one end of Balbec Bay have of the town at the other end: from Rivebelle you can just see Marcouville l’Orgueilleuse; but even that is deceptive, for you imagine that you are seen from Marcouville, where, as a matter of fact, the splendours of Rive-belle are almost wholly invisible.
然而，我们不能认为这种误解只是暂时的，就像一场闹剧第二幕中发生的那样，在最后的帷幕之前需要澄清。女士。德卢森堡，英国国王和奥地利皇帝的侄女，以及夫人。当其中一个打电话带另一个去兜风时，德维尔帕里西斯看起来确实像两只“老小跑”，人们在水边总是很难避开这种“老小跑”。在中产阶级的普通人看来，圣日耳曼郊区的十分之九的男人只是酗酒者（就个人而言，他们并不罕见），因此，没有一个受人尊敬的人会梦想请他们吃饭。在这方面，中产阶级把自己的标准定得太高了，因为这些人的感情永远不会阻止他们在中产阶级永远无法进入的房子里受到尊重。他们如此真诚地相信中产阶级知道这一点，所以他们在谈论自己的事情时装出一种简单的态度，并用一种​​贬低朋友的语气，尤其是当他们“在海岸”时，这使得误解更加彻底。如果一个时尚界的人有机会与“商人”保持联系，因为他拥有的钱多得不知道该做什么，他发现自己当选为各种重要财务问题的主席，那么这位商人他认为，最终看到一位贵族值得跻身“大企业”行列，他会发誓，这样的人不能与因赌博而破产的侯爵有任何来往，而这位商人认为侯爵更加贫困。朋友，他让自己变得更加友好。 当公爵，这个庞大企业的董事会主席，为他的儿子安排与那位侯爵的女儿的婚姻时，他无法克服自己的惊讶，侯爵可能是一个赌徒，但拥有法国最古老的名字，就像君主更愿意看到自己的儿子娶被废黜的国王的女儿，而不是现任总统的女儿。也就是说，两个世界一样精彩！巴尔贝克湾一端小镇的居民看到另一端小镇的景象：从里维贝尔 (Rivebelle) 只能看到 Marcouville l’Orgueilleuse；但即便如此，也是具有欺骗性的，因为你想象自己是从马库维尔看到的，而事实上，在那里，里夫贝勒的辉煌几乎完全看不见。

PART II
第二部分


PLACE-NAMES: THE PLACE
地名：地点

The Balbec doctor, who had been called in to cope with a sudden feverish attack, having given the opinion that I ought not to stay out all day on the beach, in the blazing sun, without shelter, and having written out various prescriptions for my use, my grandmother took his prescriptions with a show of respect in which I could at once discern her firm resolve not to have any of them ‘made up,’ but did pay attention to his advice on the matter of hygiene, and accepted an offer from Mme. de Villeparisis to take us for drives in her carriage. After this I would spend the mornings, until luncheon, going to and fro between my own room and my grandmother’s. Hers did not look out directly upon the sea, as mine did, but was lighted from three of its four sides—with views of a strip of the ‘front,’ of a well inside the building, and of the country inland, and was furnished differently from mine, with armchairs upholstered in a metallic tissue with red flowers from which seemed to emanate the cool and pleasant odour that greeted me when I entered the room. And at that hour when the sun’s rays, coming from different aspects and, as it were, from different hours of the day, broke the angles of the wall, thrust in a reflexion of the beach, made of the chest of drawers a festal altar, variegated as a bank of field-flowers, attached to the wall the wings, folded, quivering, warm, of a radiance that would, at any moment, resume its flight, warmed like a bath a square of provincial carpet before the window overlooking the well, which the sun festooned and patterned like a climbing vine, added to the charm and complexity of the room’s furniture by seeming to pluck and scatter the petals of the silken flowers on the chairs, and to make their silver threads stand out from the fabric, this room in which I lingered for a moment before going to get ready for our drive suggested a prism in which the colours of the light that shone outside were broken up, or a hive in which the sweet juices of the day which I was about to taste were distilled, scattered, intoxicating, visible, a garden of hope which dissolved in a quivering haze of silver threads and rose leaves. But before all this I had drawn back my own curtains, impatient to know what Sea it was that was playing that morning by the shore, like a Nereid. For none of those Seas ever stayed with us longer than a day. On the morrow there would be another, which sometimes resembled its predecessor. But I never saw the same one twice.
巴尔贝克医生被请来治疗突然的发烧，他认为我不应该在海滩上整天呆在烈日下，没有庇护所，并为我开了各种处方。使用时，我祖母带着尊重的态度接受了他的处方，我立刻看出她坚决不“配药”，但确实注意了他关于卫生问题的建议，并接受了提议来自女士。德维尔帕里西斯用她的马车带我们去兜风。此后，我会从早上到午餐，在我自己的房间和祖母的房间之间来回。她的房间不像我的那样直接面向大海，而是从四个侧面中的三个侧面照明——可以看到一条“正面”、建筑物内的一口井以及内陆的乡村，房间的布置与我的不同，扶手椅上铺着金属薄纸，上面开着红色的花朵，当我进入房间时，红色花朵似乎散发着凉爽宜人的气味。 在那一刻，阳光从不同的方向，可以说是从一天中的不同时间射来，打破了墙壁的角度，映照出海滩的倒影，五斗柜构成了节日的祭坛像一排野花一样杂色，翅膀贴在墙上，折叠起来，颤抖着，温暖，光芒四射，随时会恢复飞行，像浴缸一样温暖，窗前有一块方形的省级地毯，俯瞰着井在阳光的照射下，像攀爬的藤蔓一样装饰和图案，似乎将丝质花朵的花瓣摘下来并散落在椅子上，使它们的银线从椅子上脱颖而出，增加了房间家具的魅力和复杂性。布料，在准备开车之前我在这个房间里逗留了一会儿，它暗示着一个棱镜，外面照射的光线的颜色被分解，或者一个蜂巢，里面有我当天的甜蜜汁液。即将品尝的是蒸馏的、分散的、令人陶醉的、可见的，一座希望的花园，溶解在银丝和玫瑰叶颤动的薄雾中。但在这一切之前，我拉开了自己的窗帘，迫不及待地想知道那天早上在岸边演奏的是什么大海，就像海神一样。因为那些海洋与我们在一起的时间都不超过一天。第二天还会有另一个，有时与前一个相似。但我从未见过同一件事两次。

There were some that were of so rare a beauty that my pleasure on catching sight of them was enhanced by surprise. By what privilege, on one morning rather than another, did the window on being uncurtained disclose to my wondering eyes the nymph Glauconome, whose lazy beauty, gently breathing, had the transparence of a vaporous emerald beneath whose surface I could see teeming the ponderable elements that coloured it? She made the sun join in her play, with a smile rendered languorous by an invisible haze which was nought but a space kept vacant about her translucent surface, which, thus curtailed, became more appealing, like those goddesses whom the sculptor carves in relief upon a block of marble, the rest of which he leaves unchiselled. So, in her matchless colour, she invited us out over those rough terrestrial roads, from which, seated beside Mme. de Villeparisis in her barouche, we should see, all day long and without ever reaching it, the coolness of her gentle palpitation.
其中一些是如此罕见的美丽，以至于我看到它们时的惊喜感增强了我的乐趣。凭什么特权，在一个早晨，而不是另一个早晨，未拉窗帘的窗户向我好奇的眼睛展示了仙女格劳科诺姆，她慵懒的美丽，轻柔的呼吸，有一颗蒸气般的翡翠般的透明，我可以看到在其表面下充满了沉重的元素那是什么颜色的？她让太阳加入她的游戏，微笑被看不见的薄雾渲染得慵懒起来，薄雾什么也没有，只是在她半透明的表面上留下了一个空缺，这样被缩小了，就变得更有吸引力了，就像雕塑家在浮雕上雕刻的那些女神一样。一块大理石，其余部分他没有凿开。因此，她用她无与伦比的肤色邀请我们穿过那些崎岖的陆地道路，坐在夫人旁边。当德·维尔帕里西斯坐在她的四轮马车里时，我们应该看到，整天，却从未到达过，她温柔的心悸的凉爽。

Mme. de Villeparisis used to order her carriage early, so that we should have time to reach Saint-Mars le Vêtu, or the rocks of Quetteholme, or some other goal which, for a somewhat lumbering vehicle, was far enough off to require the whole day. In my joy at the long drive we were going to take I would be humming some tune that I had heard recently as I strolled up and down until Mme. de Villeparisis was ready. If it was Sunday hers would not be the only carriage drawn up outside the hotel; several hired flies would be waiting there, not only for the people who had been invited to Féterne by Mme. de Cambremer, but for those who, rather than stay at home all day, like children in disgrace, declared that Sunday was always quite impossible at Balbec and started off immediately after luncheon to hide themselves in some neighbouring watering-place or to visit one of the ‘sights’ of the district. And indeed whenever (which was often) anyone asked Mme. Blandais if she had been to the Cambremers’, she would answer peremptorily: ‘No; we went to the Falls of the Bee,’ as though that were the sole reason for her not having spent the day at Féteme. And the barrister would be charitable, and say:
女士。德·维尔帕里西斯常常提前预订她的马车，这样我们就有时间到达圣马尔勒韦图，或者凯特霍尔姆的岩石，或者其他一些目标，对于一辆有点笨重的车辆来说，距离足够远，需要一整天的时间。当我们要进行长途驾驶时，我会感到高兴，一边哼着最近听到的曲调，一边漫步到夫人面前。德维尔帕里西斯已经准备好了。如果是星期天，她的马车就不会是停在酒店外面的唯一一辆马车；几只雇来的苍蝇在那里等着，不仅仅是为了那些被夫人邀请到费特纳的人。德·康布尔梅，但对于那些像丢脸的孩子一样整天呆在家里的人来说，他们宣称周日在巴尔贝克总是不可能的，午餐后立即出发，躲在附近的某个水源中，或者去参观一个水源地。该地区的“景点”。事实上，每当（经常）有人问我女士时。布兰代斯如果去过康布雷默家，她会专横地回答：“不；没有；”我们去了蜜蜂瀑布，”仿佛这是她没有在费特梅度过这一天的唯一原因。大律师会很仁慈地说：

‘I envy you. I wish I had gone there instead; they must be well worth seeing.’
'我羡慕你。我希望我当时去了那里；它们一定非常值得一看。

Beside the row of carriages, in front of the porch in which I stood waiting, was planted, like some shrub of a rare species, a young page who attracted the eye no less by the unusual and effective colouring of his hair than by his plant-like epidermis. Inside, in the hall, corresponding to the narthex, or Church of the Catechumens in a primitive basilica, through which persons who were not staying in the hotel were entitled to pass, the comrades of this ‘outside’ page did not indeed work much harder than he but did at least execute certain drilled movements. It is probable that in the early morning they helped with the cleaning. But in the afternoon they stood there only like a Chorus who, even when there is nothing for them to do, remain upon the stage in order to strengthen the cast. The General Manager, the same who had so terrified me, reckoned on increasing their number considerably next year, for he had ‘big ideas.’ And this prospect greatly afflicted the manager of the hotel, who found that all these boys about the place only ‘created a nuisance,’ by which he meant that they got in the visitors’ way and were of no use to anyone. But between luncheon and dinner at least, between the exits and entrances of the visitors, they did fill an otherwise empty stage, like those pupils of Mme. de Maintenon who, in the garb of young Israelites, carry on the action whenever Esther or Joad ‘goes off.’ But the outside page, with his delicate tints, his tall, slender, fragile trunk, in proximity to whom I stood waiting for the Marquise to come downstairs, preserved an immobility into which a certain melancholy entered, for his elder brothers had left the hotel for more brilliant careers elsewhere, and he felt keenly his isolation upon this alien soil. At last Mme. de Villeparisis appeared. To stand by her carriage and to help her into it ought perhaps to have been part of the young page’s duties. But he knew on the one hand that a person who brings her own servants to an hotel expects them to wait on her and is not as a rule lavish with her ‘tips,’ and that generally speaking this was true also of the nobility of the old Faubourg Saint-Germain. Mme. de Villeparisis was included in both these categories. The arborescent page concluded therefore that he need expect nothing from her, and leaving her own maid and footman to pack her and her belongings into the carriage, he continued to dream sadly of the enviable lot of his brothers and preserved his vegetable immobility.
在我等候的门廊前面，一排马车旁边，种植着一位年轻的侍童，他的头发颜色不寻常而有效，就像一种稀有的灌木一样，他的植物吸引了人们的注意。 - 类似表皮。在里面，在大厅里，对应着前厅，或者说是原始大教堂中的慕道者教堂，不住在旅馆里的人有权通过该教堂，这个“外面”页面的同志们确实没有更努力地工作比他还好，但至少执行了某些经过训练的动作。很可能他们在清晨帮忙打扫卫生。但到了下午，他们就像一个合唱团一样站在那里，即使无事可做，也仍然留在舞台上，以加强演员阵容。总经理，就是那个让我如此害怕的人，预计明年他们的人数会大幅增加，因为他有“伟大的想法”。这种前景极大地困扰了酒店的经理，他发现这个地方的所有这些男孩只“制造麻烦”，他的意思是它们妨碍了访客，对任何人都没有用处。但至少在午餐和晚餐之间，在来访者的出入口之间，他们确实填补了一个原本空荡荡的舞台，就像夫人的那些学生一样。德曼特农，穿着年轻以色列人的服装，每当埃丝特或乔德“离开”时，他都会继续行动。但是外面的页面，有着精致的色彩，他高大、细长、脆弱的树干，在我站在他附近等待侯爵夫人下楼时，一动不动，带着某种忧郁的情绪，因为他的哥哥们已经离开酒店，到别处去谋求更辉煌的事业，而他在这片陌生的土地上强烈地感到自己的孤独。最后，夫人。 德维尔帕里西斯出现了。站在她的马车旁边，扶她上车，也许应该是年轻侍从的职责之一。但他一方面知道，一个带着自己的仆人到旅馆来的人希望他们伺候她，而且通常不会慷慨地给她“小费”，而且一般来说，对于贵族来说也是如此。圣日耳曼老城区。女士。 de Villeparisis 属于这两个类别。因此，树状侍从得出的结论是，他不需要对她抱有任何期望，并留下她自己的女仆和男仆将她和她的物品收拾进马车，他继续悲伤地梦想着他的兄弟们令人羡慕的命运，并保持着植物人的一动不动。

We would start off; some time after rounding the railway station, we came into a country road which soon became as familiar to me as the roads round Combray, from the bend where, like a fish-hook, it was baited with charming orchards, to the turning at which we left it, with tilled fields upon either side. Among these we could see here and there an apple-tree, stripped it was true of its blossom, and bearing no more now than a fringe of pistils, but sufficient even so to enchant me since I could imagine, seeing those inimitable leaves, how their broad expanse, like the ceremonial carpet spread for a wedding that was now over, had been but the other day swept by the white satin train of their blushing flowers.
我们会开始；绕过火车站一段时间后，我们进入了一条乡间小路，很快我就和贡布雷周围的道路一样熟悉了，从像鱼钩一样挂满迷人果园的拐弯处，到我们离开了它，两边都是耕过的田地。在这些树中，我们到处都能看到一棵苹果树，它的花朵被剥去了，现在只剩下雌蕊的边缘，但即使如此，也足以让我着迷，因为我可以想象，看到那些无与伦比的叶子，如何它们宽阔的范围，就像为一场现已结束的婚礼铺开的仪式地毯一样，前几天还被它们的红花的白色缎子拖曳所扫过。

How often in Paris, during the May of the following year, was I to bring home a branch of apple-blossom from the florist, and to stay all night long before its flowers in which bloomed the same creamy essence that powdered besides and whitened the green unfolding leaves, flowers between whose snowy cups it seemed almost as though it had been the salesman who had, in his generosity towards myself, out of his wealth of invention too and as an effective contrast, added on either side the supplement of a becoming crimson bud: I sat gazing at them, I grouped them in the light of my lamp—for so long that I was often still there when the dawn brought to their whiteness the same flush with which it must at that moment have been tingeing their sisters on the Balbec road—and I sought to carry them back in my imagination to that roadside, to multiply them, to spread them out, so as to fill the frame prepared for them, on the canvas, all ready, of those closes the outline of which I knew by heart, which I so longed to see—which one day I must see again, at the moment when, with the exquisite fervour of genius, spring was covering their canvas with its colours.
在巴黎，第二年的五月，我有多少次从花店带回一枝苹果花，在它的花前过夜，花里盛开着同样的奶油香精，这些香精在外面撒上粉，使苹果花变白。绿色展开的叶子，花朵，在它们雪白的杯子之间，似乎是推销员，在他对我的慷慨中，也出于他丰富的发明，作为有效的对比，在两侧添加了一种成为的补充。深红色的花蕾：我坐在那里凝视着它们，在我的灯火下把它们分组——时间太长了，以至于当黎明给它们带来白色时，我常常还在那里，就像当时它们的姐妹们染上同样的红晕一样。在巴尔贝克路上——我试图在我的想象中把它们带回那条路边，让它们繁衍，把它们展开，以便填满为它们准备的框架，在画布上，一切准备就绪，那些关闭轮廓的东西我对它了如指掌，我非常渴望看到它——总有一天我必须再次看到它，此时此刻，带着天才的精致热情，春天正在用它的色彩覆盖他们的画布。

Before getting into the carriage I had composed the seascape for which I was going to look out, which I had hoped to see with the ‘sun radiant’ upon it, and which at Balbec I could distinguish only in too fragmentary a form, broken by so many vulgar intromissions that had no place in my dream, bathers, dressing-boxes, pleasure yachts. But when, Mme. de Ville-parisis’s carriage having reached high ground, I caught a glimpse of the sea through the leafy boughs of trees, then no doubt at such a distance those temporal details which had set the sea, as it were, apart from nature and history disappeared, and I could as I looked down towards its waves make myself realise that they were the same which Leconte de Lisle describes for us in his Orestie, where ‘like a flight of birds of prey, before the dawn of day’ the long-haired warriors of heroic Hellas ‘with oars an hundred thousand sweep the huge resounding deep.’ But on the other hand I was no longer near enough to the sea which seemed to me not a living thing now, but fixed; I no longer felt any power beneath its colours, spread like those of a picture among the leaves, through which it appeared as inconsistent as the sky and only of an intenser blue.
在上马车之前，我已经画好了我要眺望的海景，我希望看到它上面有“光芒四射”的阳光，而在巴尔贝克，我只能以一种过于零碎的形式区分它，被这么多粗俗的介绍，在我的梦中没有立足之地，沐浴者、梳妆盒、游艇。但是什么时候，女士。巴黎市政厅的马车到达了高地，我透过茂密的树枝瞥见了大海，然后毫无疑问，在如此远的距离上，那些使大海与自然和历史分离的时间细节消失了当我低头看着它的波浪时，我可以让自己意识到它们与莱孔特·德·莱尔在他的《奥瑞斯提》中为我们描述的一样，在那里“像猛禽的飞行，在黎明之前”长发的英雄的希腊战士“用十万支桨扫荡浩瀚的深海。”但另一方面，我离大海已经不够近了，大海现在对我来说不再是一个活物，而是固定的；我不再感觉到它的颜色下面有任何力量，就像一幅画在树叶中蔓延一样，透过它，它看起来像天空一样不一致，只是更强烈的蓝色。

Mme. de Villeparisis, seeing that I was fond of churches, promised me that we should visit one one day and another another, and especially the church at Carqueville ‘quite buried in all its old ivy,’ as she said with a wave of the hand which seemed tastefully to be clothing the absent ‘front’ in an invisible and delicate screen of foliage. Mme. de Villeparisis would often, with this little descriptive gesture, find just the right word to define the attraction and the distinctive features of an historic building, always avoiding technical terms, but incapable of concealing her thorough understanding of the things to which she referred. She appeared to seek an excuse for this erudition in the fact that one of her father’s country houses, the one in which she had lived as a girl, was situated in a district in which there were churches similar in style to those round Balbec, so that it would have been unaccountable if she had not acquired a taste for architecture, this house being, incidentally, one of the finest examples of that of the Renaissance. But as it was also a regular museum, as moreover Chopin and Liszt had played there, Lamartine recited poetry, all the most famous artists for fully a century inscribed ‘sentiments,’ scored melodies, made sketches in the family album, Mme. de Villeparisis ascribed, whether from delicacy, good breeding, true modesty or want of intelligence, only this purely material origin to her acquaintance with all the arts, and had come, apparently, to regard painting, music, literature and philosophy as the appanage of a young lady brought up on the most aristocratic lines in an historic building that was catalogued and starred. You would have said, listening to her, that she knew of no pictures that were not heirlooms. She was pleased that my grandmother liked a necklace which she wore, and which fell over her dress. It appeared in the portrait of an ancestress of her own by Titian which had never left the family. So that one could be certain of its being genuine. She would not listen to a word about pictures bought, heaven knew where, by a Croesus, she was convinced before you spoke that they were forgeries, and had so desire to see them. We knew that she herself painted flowers in water-colour, and my grandmother, who had heard these praised, spoke to her of them. Mme. de Villeparisis modestly changed the subject, but without shewing either surprise or pleasure more than would an artist whose reputation was established and to whom compliments meant nothing. She said merely that it was a delightful pastime because, even if the flowers that sprang from the brush were nothing wonderful, at least the work made you live in the company of real flowers, of the beauty of which, especially when you were obliged to study them closely in order to draw them, you could never grow tired. But at Balbec Mme. de Villeparisis was giving herself a holiday, so as to spare her eyes.
女士。德维尔帕里西斯看到我喜欢教堂，就答应我，我们应该一天又一天地去参观，尤其是卡克维尔的教堂，正如她挥手说的那样，“完全被埋在所有古老的常春藤中”。似乎雅致地用看不见的、精致的树叶屏风来装饰缺席的“前面”。女士。德·维尔帕里西斯经常通过这种小小的描述性姿态，找到合适的词来定义历史建筑的吸引力和独特特征，总是避免使用专业术语，但无法掩盖她对所指事物的透彻理解。她似乎在为这种博学寻找借口，因为她父亲的一栋乡间别墅，也就是她小时候住过的那栋，位于一个地区，那里有与巴尔贝克周围风格相似的教堂，所以如果她没有对建筑产生兴趣，那是不负责任的，顺便说一句，这座房子是文艺复兴时期最好的例子之一。但由于它也是一个普通的博物馆，而且肖邦和李斯特也曾在那里演奏过，拉马丁背诵诗歌，整整一个世纪以来所有最著名的艺术家都在家庭相册《拉马丁夫人》中题写“情感”，创作旋律，画草图。德·维尔帕里西斯将她对所有艺术的熟悉归结为纯粹的物质起源，无论是出于精致、良好教养、真正的谦虚还是缺乏智慧，并且显然已经开始将绘画、音乐、文学和哲学视为艺术的附属物。一位年轻女士在一座被编录并加星标的历史建筑中以最贵族的方式长大。听她说，你可能会说，她知道没有一张照片不是传家宝。 她很高兴我的祖母喜欢她戴着的一条项链，这条项链落在她的衣服上。它出现在提香为她自己的一位祖先绘制的肖像中，该肖像从未离开过这个家族。这样人们就可以确定它是真的。她不肯听任何关于买画的事，天知道是在哪里买的，是克洛伊索斯的，在你开口之前，她就确信它们是赝品，并且非常渴望看到它们。我们知道她自己也用水彩画过花朵，我的祖母听到这些赞扬后，向她谈到了这些。女士。德·维尔帕里西斯谦虚地改变了话题，但并没有表现出比一位已经声名鹊起、恭维对他来说毫无意义的艺术家更多的惊讶或高兴。她只是说这是一种令人愉快的消遣，因为即使从画笔中开出的花朵并不美妙，但至少这项工作让你生活在真正的花朵的陪伴下，欣赏它们的美丽，尤其是当你不得不仔细研究它们以绘制它们，你永远不会感到厌倦。但在巴尔贝克女士。德·维尔帕里西斯正在给自己放个假，以免眼睛受伤。

We were astonished, my grandmother and I, to find how much more ‘Liberal’ she was than even the majority of the middle class. She did not understand how anyone could be scandalised by the expulsion of the Jesuits, saying that it had always been done, even under the Monarchy, in Spain even. She took up the defence of the Republic, and against its anti-clericalism had not more to say than: ‘I should be equally annoyed whether they prevented me from hearing mass when I wanted to, or forced me to hear it when I didn’t!’ and even startled us with such utterances as: ‘Oh! the aristocracy in these days, what does it amount to?’ ‘To my mind, a man who doesn’t work doesn’t count!’—perhaps only because she felt that they gained point and flavour, became memorable, in fact, on her lips.
我和祖母都惊讶地发现，她比大多数中产阶级还要“自由”。她不明白怎么会有人因为驱逐耶稣会士而感到愤慨，她说，即使在君主制时期，甚至在西班牙，这种事一直都是这样做的。她拿起保卫共和国的旗号，反对共和国的反教​​权主义，无非就是：“无论他们在我想听弥撒时阻止我听弥撒，还是在我不想听弥撒时强迫我听，我都应该同样感到恼火。” t！”甚至用这样的话吓到我们：“哦！现在的贵族，这意味着什么？”“在我看来，一个不工作的男人不算数！”——也许只是因为她觉得它们获得了意义和风味，变得令人难忘，事实上，在她的嘴唇上。

When we heard these advanced opinions—though never so far advanced as to amount to Socialism, which Mme. de Villeparisis held in abhorrence—expressed so frequently and with so much frankness precisely by one of those people in consideration of whose intelligence our scrupulous and timid impartiality would refuse to condemn outright the ideas of the Conservatives, we came very near, my grandmother and I, to believing that in the pleasant companion of our drives was to be found the measure and the pattern of truth in all things. We took her word for it when she appreciated her Titians, the colonnade of her country house, the conversational talent of Louis-Philippe. But—like those mines of learning who hold us spellbound when we get them upon Egyptian paintings or Etruscan inscriptions, and yet talk so tediously about modern work that we ask ourselves whether we have not been over-estimating the interest of the sciences in which they are versed since there is not apparent in their treatment of them the mediocrity of mind which they must have brought to those studies just as much as to their fatuous essays on Baudelaire—Mme. de Villeparisis, questioned by me about Chateaubriand, about Balzac, about Victor Hugo, each of whom had in his day been the guest of her parents, and had been seen and spoken to by her, smiled at my reverence, told amusing anecdotes of them, such as she had a moment ago been telling us of dukes and statesmen, and severely criticised those writers simply because they had been lacking in that modesty, that self-effacement, that sober art which is satisfied with a single right line, and lays no stress on it, which avoids more than anything else the absurdity of grandiloquence, in that opportuneness, those qualities of moderation, of judgment and simplicity to which she had been taught that real greatness aspired and attained: it was evident that she had no hesitation in placing above them men who might after all, perhaps, by virtue of those qualities, have had the advantage of a Balzac, a Hugo, a Vigny in a drawing-room, an academy, a cabinet council, men like Mole, Fontanes, Vitroles, Bersot, Pasquier, Lebrun, Salvandy or Daru.
当我们听到这些先进的观点时——尽管从未先进到达到社会主义的程度，德·维尔帕里西斯对此表示憎恶——正是由其中一位如此频繁、如此坦率地表达的，考虑到他们的智慧，我们谨慎而胆怯的公正性将拒绝彻底谴责保守党的想法，我们非常接近，我的祖母和我，相信在我们的驱动力的愉快伴侣中可以找到一切事物的真理的尺度和模式。当她欣赏她的提香画作、乡间别墅的柱廊以及路易·菲利普的谈话天赋时，我们相信她的话。但是，就像那些学识的宝藏一样，当我们看到埃及绘画或伊特鲁里亚铭文时，它们让我们着迷，但又如此乏味地谈论现代作品，以至于我们扪心自问，我们是否高估了它们所涉猎的科学的兴趣。他们是精通的，因为在他们对待他们的方式中并没有明显的平庸的思想，他们一定把这种平庸的思想带到了这些研究中，就像他们关于波德莱尔夫人的愚蠢论文一样。 德·维尔帕里西斯，被我问到有关夏多布里昂、巴尔扎克和维克多·雨果的事，他们每个人在他那个时代都曾是她父母的客人，她也见过并与她交谈过，她对我的崇敬微笑，讲述了他们的有趣轶事，就像她刚才向我们讲述的公爵和政治家一样，她严厉批评了那些作家，仅仅因为他们缺乏那种谦虚、那种自我谦虚、那种满足于一条正确路线的清醒艺术，并奠定了基础。没有强调它，这比其他任何事情都避免了夸夸其谈的荒谬，在那个机会，那些温和的品质，判断力和简单性中，她被教导要渴望并获得真正的伟大：很明显，她毫不犹豫把这些人置于他们之上，也许凭借这些品质，他们可能拥有巴尔扎克、雨果、客厅、学院、内阁委员会中的维尼那样的优势，比如莫尔、丰塔内斯、维特罗勒、贝尔索、帕斯奎尔、勒布伦、萨尔万迪或达鲁。

‘Like those novels of Stendhal, which you seem to admire. You would have given him a great surprise, I assure you, if you had spoken to him in that tone. My father, who used to meet him at M. Mérimée’s—now he was a man of talent, if you like—often told me that Beyle (that was his real name) was appallingly vulgar, but quite good company at dinner, and never in the least conceited about his books. Why, you can see for yourself how he just shrugged his shoulders at the absurdly extravagant compliments of M. de Balzac. There at least he shewed that he knew how to behave like a gentleman.’ She possessed the autographs of all these great men, and seemed, when she put forward the personal relations which her family had had with them, to assume that her judgment of them must be better founded than that of young people who, like myself, had had no opportunity of meeting them. ‘I’m sure I have a right to speak, for they used to come to my father’s house; and as M. Sainte-Beuve, who was a most intelligent man, used to say, in forming an estimate you must take the word of people who saw them close, and were able to judge more exactly of their real worth.’
“就像司汤达的那些小说，你似乎很欣赏。我向你保证，如果你用那种语气对他说话，你会给他一个很大的惊喜。我的父亲曾经在梅里美先生家里见过他——如果你愿意的话，现在他是一个有才华的人——经常告诉我，贝勒（这是他的真名）粗俗得令人震惊，但在晚餐时却是很好的伙伴，而且从不对他的书毫不自负。哎呀，你可以亲眼看看，对于巴尔扎克先生荒唐夸张的恭维，他只是耸了耸肩。至少他在那里表明他知道如何表现得像个绅士。”她拥有所有这些伟人的亲笔签名，当她提出她的家人与他们的个人关系时，似乎认为她对自己的判断是正确的。他们一定比那些像我一样没有机会见到他们的年轻人有更好的基础。 “我确信我有权利说话，因为他们过去常来我父亲家里；正如一位最聪明的人圣伯夫先生常说的那样，在进行评估时，你必须听取那些近距离观察过它们的人的说法，并且能够更准确地判断它们的真正价值。

Sometimes as the carriage laboured up a steep road through tilled country, making the fields more real, adding to them a mark of authenticity like the precious flower with which certain of the old masters used to sign their pictures, a few hesitating cornflowers, like the Combray cornflowers, would stream in our wake. Presently the horses outdistanced them, but a little way on we would catch sight of another which while it stayed our coming had pricked up to welcome us amid the grass its azure star; some made so bold as to come and plant themselves by the side of the road, and the impression left in my mind was a nebulous blend of distant memories and of wild flowers grown tame.
有时，当马车在耕种过的田野中艰难地行驶在陡峭的道路上时，田野变得更加真实，给它们增添了真实性的标记，就像某些古代大师用来在画作上签名的珍贵花朵一样，一些犹豫不决的矢车菊，就像贡布雷矢车菊，会在我们身后流淌。不久，马匹就超过了它们，但再走一段路，我们就会看到另一匹马，当它停留在我们的到来时，它在草丛中站起来迎接我们，它的蔚蓝星星；有的还大胆地来到路边种下，给我留下的印象是遥远的记忆和驯服的野花的模糊混合。

We began to go down hill; and then met, climbing on foot, on a bicycle, in a cart or carriage, one of those creatures—flowers of a fine day but unlike the flowers of the field, for each of them secretes something that is not to be found in another, with the result that we can never satisfy upon any of her fellows the desire which she has brought to birth in us—a farm-girl driving her cow or half-lying along a waggon, a shopkeeper’s daughter taking the air, a fashionable young lady erect on the back seat of a landau, facing her parents. Certainly Bloch had been the means of opening a new era and had altered the value of life for me on the day when he had told me that the dreams which I had entertained on my solitary walks along the Méséglise way, when I hoped that some peasant girl might pass whom I could take in my arms, were not a mere fantasy which corresponded to nothing outside myself, but that all the girls one met, whether villagers or ‘young ladies,’ were alike ready and willing to give ear to such prayers. And even if I were fated, now that I was ill and did not go out by myself, never to be able to make love to them, I was happy all the same, like a child born in a prison or a hospital, who, having always supposed that the human organism was capable of digesting only dry bread and ‘physic,’ has learned suddenly that peaches, apricots and grapes are not simply part of the decoration of the country scene but delicious and easily assimilated food. Even if his gaoler or his nurse does not allow him to pluck those tempting fruits, still the world seems to him a better place and existence in it more clement. For a desire seems to us more attractive, we repose on it with more confidence, when we know that outside ourselves there is a reality which conforms to it, even if, for us, it is not to be realised. And we think with more joy of a life in which (on condition that we eliminate for a moment from our mind the tiny obstacle, accidental and special, which prevents us personally from doing so) we can imagine ourself to be assuaging that desire. As to the pretty girls who went past, from the day on which I had first known that their cheeks could be kissed, I had become curious about their souls. And the universe had appeared to me more interesting.
我们开始下山；然后，在步行、骑自行车、推车或马车上攀登时，遇见了其中的一种生物——晴天的花朵，但与田野的花朵不同，因为它们中的每一种都分泌出另一种生物中找不到的东西，其结果是，我们永远无法满足她的任何同胞的愿望，她给我们带来了出生——一个赶着牛或半躺在马车上的农家女孩，一个店主的女儿在空气中，一个时尚的年轻人女士笔直地坐在一辆四轮大篷车的后座上，面向她的父母。当然，布洛赫是开启新时代的手段，并且在那天他告诉我，我独自沿着梅塞格利兹之路行走时所怀有的梦想，当我希望某个农民一个女孩可能会经过我可以抱在怀里的人，这不仅仅是一种幻想，与我之外的一切无关，而是所有遇到的女孩，无论是村民还是“年轻女士”，都准备好并愿意倾听这样的祈祷。即使我命中注定，现在我生病了，不能自己出去，永远不能和他们做爱，我仍然很高兴，就像一个在监狱或医院里出生的孩子，一直以为人体只能消化干面包和“药材”，现在突然发现桃子、杏子和葡萄不仅仅是乡村风景的装饰品，而且是美味且易于吸收的食物。即使他的狱卒或保姆不允许他采摘那些诱人的果实，在他看来，这个世界仍然是一个更好的地方，生活在其中也更加宽容。 因为一个愿望对我们来说似乎更有吸引力，当我们知道在我们之外有一个符合它的现实时，我们就会更有信心地依靠它，即使对我们来说，它是不可能实现的。我们会更加快乐地思考这样的生活（条件是我们暂时从头脑中消除那些阻碍我们个人这样做的微小障碍，偶然的和特殊的），我们可以想象自己正在满足这种愿望。至于那些走过的漂亮女孩，从我第一次知道她们的脸颊可以被亲吻的那天起，我就对她们的灵魂感到好奇。宇宙对我来说显得更加有趣。

Mme. de Villeparisis’s carriage moved fast. Scarcely had I time to see the girl who was coming in our direction; and yet—as the beauty of people is not like the beauty of things, as we feel that it is that of an unique creature, endowed with consciousness and free-will—as soon as her individuality, a soul still vague, a will unknown to me, presented a tiny picture of itself, enormously reduced but complete, in the depths of her indifferent eyes, at once, by a mysterious response of the pollen ready in me for the pistils that should receive it, I felt surging through me the embryo, as vague, as minute, of the desire not to let this girl pass without forcing her mind to become conscious of my person, without preventing her desires from wandering to some one else, without coming to fix myself in her dreams and to seize and occupy her heart. Meanwhile our carriage rolled away from her, the pretty girl was already left behind, and as she had—of me—none of those notions which constitute a person in one’s mind, her eyes which had barely seen me had forgotten me already. Was it because I had caught but a fragmentary glimpse of her that I had found her so attractive? It may have been. In the first place, the impossibility of stopping when I came to her, the risk of not meeting her again another day, give at once to such a girl the same charm as a place derives from the illness or poverty that prevents us from visiting it, or the so unadventurous days through which we should otherwise have to live from the battle in which we shall doubtless fall. So that, if there were no such thing as habit, life must appear delightful to those of us who would at every moment be threatened with death—that is to say, to all mankind. Then, if our imagination is set going by the desire for what we may not possess, its flight is not limited by a reality completely perceived, in these casual encounters in which the charms of the passing stranger are generally in direct ratio to the swiftness of our passage. If only night is falling and the carriage is moving fast, whether in town or country, there is not a female torso, mutilated like an antique marble by the speed that tears us away and the dusk that drowns it, but aims at our heart, from every turning in the road, from the lighted interior of every shop, the arrows of Beauty, that Beauty of which we are sometimes tempted to ask ourselves whether it is, in this world, anything more than the complementary part that is added to a fragmentary and fugitive stranger by our imagination over-stimulated by regret.
女士。德维尔帕里西斯的马车行驶得很快。我还没来得及看向朝我们这边走来的那个女孩。然而——人的美与事物的美不同，因为我们感觉它是一种独特的生物的美，被赋予了意识和自由意志——一旦她的个性、灵魂仍然模糊、意志未知在她冷漠的眼睛深处，她向我展示了一幅自己的小图画，虽然大大缩小了，但却很完整​​，立刻，由于我体内准备好接收花粉的雌蕊的花粉的神秘反应，我感到在我体内涌动着胚胎，模糊的，微小的，渴望不让这个女孩过去，而不强迫她的思想意识到我的人，不阻止她的欲望徘徊到别人身上，不让自己固定在她的梦中并抓住她。并占据她的心。与此同时，我们的马车驶离了她，那个漂亮的姑娘已经被抛在了后面，而且她心里对我没有任何构成一个人的概念，她那双几乎没见过我的眼睛已经把我忘记了。是因为我只瞥见了她一眼，才觉得她如此迷人吗？可能是这样。首先，当我来到她身边时，不可能停下来，有一天再也见不到她的风险，立刻给这样一个女孩带来了与一个地方一样的魅力，这个地方源于疾病或贫穷，阻止我们去拜访它，或者是那些如此平淡无奇的日子，否则我们就必须从毫无疑问会倒下的战斗中生存下来。因此，如果没有习惯这样的东西，对于我们这些每时每刻都受到死亡威胁的人来说，也就是说，对全人类来说，生活一定会显得令人愉快。 那么，如果我们的想象力是由对我们可能不拥有的东西的渴望所激发的，那么它的飞翔就不会受到完全感知到的现实的限制，在这些偶然的相遇中，路过的陌生人的魅力通常与我们的速度成正比。我们的通道。只要夜幕降临，马车快速前行，无论是在城里还是乡村，都没有一个女性的躯干，像古董大理石一样被速度撕裂和淹没的黄昏所残害，而是瞄准我们的心，从道路的每一个转弯处，从每家商店的灯火通明的内部，美的箭头，我们有时会忍不住问自己，在这个世界上，这种美是否不仅仅是添加到一个东西中的补充部分。我们的想象力因悔恨而过度刺激，成为支离破碎的、逃亡的陌生人。

Had I been free to stop, to get down from the carriage and to speak to the girl whom we were passing, should I perhaps have been disillusioned by some fault in her complexion which from the carriage I had not distinguished? (After which every effort to penetrate into her life would have seemed suddenly impossible. For beauty is a sequence of hypotheses which ugliness cuts short when it bars the way that we could already see opening into the unknown.) Perhaps a single word which she might have uttered, a smile, would have furnished me with a key, a clue that I had not expected, to read the expression of her face, to interpret her bearing, which would at once have ceased to be of any interest. It is possible, for I have never in real life met any girls so desirable as on days when I was with some serious person from whom, despite the—myriad pretexts that I invented, I could not tear myself away: some years after that in which I went for the first time to Balbec, as I was driving through Paris with a friend of my father, and had caught sight of a woman walking quickly along the dark street, I felt that it was unreasonable to forfeit, for a purely conventional scruple, my share of happiness in what may very well be the only life there is, and jumping from the carriage without a word of apology I followed in quest of the stranger; lost her where two streets crossed; caught her up again in a third, and arrived at last, breathless, beneath a street lamp, face to face with old Mme. Verdurin whom I had been carefully avoiding for years, and who, in her delight and surprise, exclaimed: ‘But how very nice of you to have run all this way just to say how d’ye do to me!’
如果我能自由地停下来，从马车上下来，和我们经过的那个女孩说话，我也许会因为她肤色上的某些我没有从马车上区分出来的缺点而感到失望吗？ （此后，想要深入她的生活的一切努力似乎突然变得不可能了。因为美是一系列的假设，当它阻碍了我们已经可以看到通向未知的道路时，丑陋就会缩短它。）也许她可能会用一个词来表达。说出来的，一个微笑，会给我提供一把钥匙，一条我没有预料到的线索，去读懂她脸上的表情，解读她的举止，但这立刻就不再有任何兴趣了。这是有可能的，因为在现实生活中，我从来没有遇到过比我和某个严肃的人在一起的日子更令人向往的女孩，尽管我发明了无数的借口，但我无法将自己从她身边抽离：几年后，在这是我第一次去巴尔贝克，当时我和父亲的一个朋友开车穿过巴黎，看到一个女人沿着黑暗的街道快步走，我觉得放弃是不合理的，因为纯粹是传统的顾忌，我在这可能是唯一的生活中分享的幸福，没有一句道歉地从马车上跳下来，跟着去寻找陌生人；在两条街交叉处失去了她；第三次又追上了她，最后气喘吁吁地来到了路灯下，与老夫人面对面。维尔迪兰，我多年来一直小心翼翼地避开她，她高兴而惊讶地喊道：“不过，你跑这么远，只是为了告诉我你对我怎么样，真是太好了！”

That year at Balbec, at the moments of such encounters, I would assure my grandmother and Mme. de Villeparisis that I had so severe a headache that the best thing for me would be to go home alone on foot. But they would never let me get out of the carriage. And I must add that pretty girl (far harder to find again than an historic building, for she was nameless and had the power of locomotion) to the collection of all those whom I promised myself that I would examine more closely at a later date. One of them, however, happened to pass more than once before my eyes in circumstances which allowed me to believe that I should be able to get to know her when I chose. This was a milk-girl who came from a farm with an additional supply of cream for the hotel. I fancied that she had recognised me also; and she did, in fact, look at me with an attentiveness which was perhaps due only to the surprise which my attentiveness caused her. And next day, a day on which I had been resting all morning, when Françoise came in about noon to draw my curtains, she handed me a letter which had been left for me downstairs. I knew no one at Balbec. I had no doubt that the letter was from the milk-girl. Alas, it was only from Bergotte who, as he happened to be passing, had tried to see me, but on hearing that I was asleep had scribbled a few charming lines for which the lift-boy had addressed an envelope which I had supposed to have been written by the milk-girl. I was bitterly disappointed, and the thought that it was more difficult, and more flattering to myself to get a letter from Bergotte did not in the least console me for this particular letter’s not being from her. As for the girl, I never came across her again any more than I came across those whom I had seen only from Mme. de Ville-parisis’s carriage. Seeing and then losing them all thus increased the state of agitation in which I was living, and I found a certain wisdom in the philosophers who recommend us to set a limit to our desires (if, that is, they refer to our desire for people, for that is the only kind that ends in anxiety, having for its object a being at once unknown and unconscious. To suppose that philosophy could refer to the desire for wealth would be too silly.). At the same time I was inclined to regard this wisdom as incomplete, for I said to myself that these encounters made me find even more beautiful a world which thus caused to grow along all the country roads flowers at once rare and common, fleeting treasures of the day, windfalls of the drive, of which the contingent circumstances that would never, perhaps, recur had alone prevented me from taking advantage, and which gave a new zest to life.
那一年在巴尔贝克，每当遇到这样的时刻，我都会向我的祖母和夫人保证。 de Villeparisis 说我头痛得厉害，对我来说最好的办法就是独自步行回家。但他们始终不让我下马车。我必须把那个漂亮的女孩（比一座历史建筑更难找到，因为她无名却有移动的能力）添加到所有我向自己保证稍后会更仔细地检查的人的收藏中。然而，其中一位碰巧不止一次地从我眼前经过，让我相信只要我选择，我就应该能够认识她。这是一位来自农场的挤奶女孩，为酒店额外供应奶油。我想她也认出了我。事实上，她确实很专注地看着我，这也许只是因为我的专注让她感到惊讶。第二天，我整个早上都在休息，中午弗朗索瓦丝进来给我拉窗帘时，她递给我一封楼下留给我的信。我在巴尔贝克谁也不认识。我毫不怀疑这封信是送牛奶的女孩写来的。唉，这只是贝戈特打来的，他碰巧路过时曾试图见我，但当听说我睡着了时，他潦草地写了几句迷人的诗句，电梯男孩在信封上写了地址，而我本来应该把这些诗句写在信封上。是牛奶女孩写的。我非常失望，想到收到贝戈特的来信更加困难，也更加受宠若惊，但这并没有让我感到一丝安慰，因为这封信不是她写的。至于那个女孩，我再也没有遇到过她，就像我再也没有遇到过那些我只从夫人那里见过的人一样。 巴黎市政厅的马车。看到然后失去它们都增加了我生活中的焦躁状态，我在哲学家中发现了一定的智慧，他们建议我们限制我们的欲望（也就是说，如果他们指的是我们对人的欲望） ，因为这是唯一一种以焦虑告终的类型，其对象是一个既未知又无意识的存在。假设哲学可以指代对财富的渴望就太愚蠢了。）。同时，我也倾向于认为这种智慧是不完整的，因为我对自己说，这些遭遇让我发现了一个更加美丽的世界，从而使所有乡村道路上都长满了既稀有又常见的花朵，转瞬即逝的宝藏。那天，开车的意外之财，也许永远不会再发生的偶然情况阻止了我利用它，这给生活带来了新的热情。

But perhaps in hoping that, one day, with greater freedom, I should be able to find on other roads girls much the same, I was already beginning to falsify and corrupt what there is exclusively individual in the desire to live in the company of a woman whom one has found attractive, and by the mere fact that I admitted the possibility of making this desire grow artificially, I had implicitly acknowledged my allusion.
但也许是因为希望有一天，我能在更大的自由下，在其他道路上找到同样的女孩，我已经开始伪造和腐蚀那些纯粹个人的愿望，即与一个人在一起生活的愿望。仅仅因为我承认了人为地增长这种欲望的可能性，我就已经含蓄地承认了我的暗示。

The day on which Mme. de Villeparisis took us to Carqueville, where there was that church, covered in ivy, of which she had spoken to us, a church that, built upon rising ground, dominated both its village and the river that flowed beneath it, and had kept its own little bridge from the middle ages, my grandmother, thinking that I would like to be left alone to study the building at my leisure, suggested to her friend that they should go on and wait for me at the pastry-cook’s, in the village square which was clearly visible from where we were and, in its mellow bloom in the sunshine, seemed like another part of a whole that was all mediaeval. It was arranged that I should join them there later. In the mass of verdure before which I was left standing I was obliged, if I was to discover the church, to make a mental effort which involved my grasping more intensely the idea ‘Church’; in fact, as happens to schoolboys who gather more fully the meaning of a sentence when they are made, by translating or by paraphrasing it, to divest it of the forms to which they are accustomed, this idea of ‘Church,’ which as a rule I scarcely needed when I stood beneath steeples that were recognisable in themselves, I was obliged perpetually to recall so as not to forget, here that the arch in this clump of ivy was that of a pointed window, there that the projection of the leaves was due to the swelling underneath of a capital. Then came a breath of wind, and sent a tremor through the mobile porch, which was overrun by eddies that shot and quivered like a flood of light; the pointed leaves opened one against another; and, shuddering, the arboreal front drew after it green pillars, undulant, caressed and fugitive.
女士的那一天。德·维尔帕里西斯带我们去了卡克维尔，那里有一座被常春藤覆盖的教堂，她曾向我们谈到过这座教堂，这座教堂建在高地上，统治着它的村庄和流过它下面的河流，并保留了它的特色。这座中世纪的小桥，我的祖母认为我想一个人在闲暇时研究这座建筑，于是向她的朋友建议，他们应该继续在村里的糕点师那里等我。从我们所在的地方清晰可见广场，在阳光下绽放出柔和的光芒，似乎是中世纪整体的另一部分。安排我稍后去那里与他们会合。如果我要发现教堂，我就必须在一大片青翠的绿地前付出努力，这需要我更强烈地抓住“教堂”这个概念；但我必须在精神上做出努力，让我更强烈地理解“教堂”这个概念。事实上，正如学生们所发生的那样，他们在造句时通过翻译或释义来更充分地理解句子的含义，将其从他们习惯的形式中剥离出来，“教会”这个概念，作为一个当我站在本身就可以辨认的尖塔下时，我几乎不需要规则，我不得不永远回忆以免忘记，这里这丛常春藤的拱门是尖窗的拱门，那里树叶的投影是由于首都下面的肿胀造成的。然后一阵风​​吹来，移动的门廊一阵颤抖，门廊上充满了漩涡，像洪水一样猛烈地颤抖着。尖尖的叶子一张张地张开；树丛前部颤抖着，在它后面拉出了绿色的柱子，它们起伏不定，被爱抚着，又转瞬即逝。

As I came away from the church I saw by the old bridge a cluster of girls from the village who, probably because it was Sunday, were standing about in their best clothes, rallying the young men who went past. Not so well dressed as the others, but seeming to enjoy some ascendancy over them—for she scarcely answered when they spoke to her—with a more serious and a more determined air, there was a tall one who, hoisted upon the parapet of the bridge with her feet hanging down, was holding on her lap a small vessel full of fish which she had presumably just been catching. She had a tanned complexion, gentle eyes but with a look of contempt for her surroundings, a small nose, delicately and attractively modelled. My eyes rested upon her skin; and my lips, had the need arisen, might have believed that they had followed my eyes. But it was not only to her body that I should have liked to attain, there was also her person, which abode within her, and with which there is but one form of contact, namely to attract its attention, but one sort of penetration, to awaken an idea in it.
当我离开教堂时，我看到老桥边有一群来自村里的女孩，可能因为是星期天，她们穿着最好的衣服站在周围，聚集着走过的年轻人。穿着不像其他人那么好，但似乎比他们享有某种优势——因为当他们对她说话时，她几乎没有回答——有一个身材高大的人，他被吊在教堂的栏杆上，神态更加严肃和坚定。布里奇双脚下垂，膝上搁着一只装满鱼的小船，大概是她刚刚捕到的。她肤色晒黑，眼神温柔却带着蔑视周围的神情，小鼻子，造型精致迷人。我的目光落在她的皮肤上；如果有必要的话，我的嘴唇可能会相信它们是跟着我的眼睛走的。但我想要达到的不仅是她的身体，还有她的人，她住在她体内，与她的接触只有一种形式，即吸引它的注意力，但也有一种渗透，唤醒其中的一个想法。

And this inner self of the charming fisher-girl seemed to be still closed to me, I was doubtful whether I had entered it, even after I had seen my own image furtively reflect itself in the twin mirrors of her gaze, following an index of refraction that was as unknown to me as if I had been placed in the field of vision of a deer. But just as it would not have sufficed that my lips should find pleasure in hers without giving pleasure to them also, so I should have wished that the idea of me which was to enter this creature, was to fasten itself in her, should attract to me not merely her attention but her admiration, her desire, and should compel her to keep me in her memory until the day when I should be able to meet her again. Meanwhile I could see, within a stone’s-throw, the square in which Mme. de Villeparisis’s carriage must be waiting for me. I had not a moment to lose; and already I could feel that the girls were beginning to laugh at the sight of me thus held suspended before them. I had a five-franc piece in my pocket. I drew it out, and, before explaining to the girl the errand on which I proposed to send her, so as to have a better chance of her listening to me, I held the coin for a moment before her eyes.
而这个迷人的渔女的内在自我似乎仍然对我关闭着，我怀疑我是否进入了它，即使我看到自己的形象偷偷地反映在她目光的双镜中，遵循着一种索引折射对我来说是未知的，就好像我被置于鹿的视野中一样。但是，正如我的嘴唇在她的嘴唇中找到快乐而不给它们带来快乐是不够的，所以我希望我进入这个生物的想法是固定在她身上，应该吸引我不仅是她的关注，而且是她的钦佩、她的渴望，并且应该迫使她将我留在她的记忆中，直到我能够再次见到她的那一天。与此同时，我可以看到距离一箭之遥的广场。德维尔帕里西斯的马车肯定正在等我。我一刻也不能浪费；我已经感觉到，看到我悬在她们面前，女孩们开始大笑。我口袋里有一枚五法郎。我把它拿出来，然后，在向女孩解释我打算派她去的差事之前，为了让她更好地听我说话，我把硬币放在她眼前一会儿。

‘Since you seem to belong to the place,’ I said to her, ‘I wonder if you would be so good as to take a message for me. I want you to go to a pastrycook’s—which is apparently in a square, but I don’t know where that is—where there is a carriage waiting for me. One moment! To make quite sure, will you ask if the carriage belongs to the Marquise de Villeparisis? But you can’t miss it; it’s a carriage and pair.’
“既然你似乎属于这个地方，”我对她说，“我想知道你是否愿意帮我带个口信。”我想让你去一家糕点店——显然是在一个广场上，但我不知道那在哪里——那里有一辆马车在等我。一会儿！为了更加确定，您是否会询问这辆马车是否属于维尔帕里西斯侯爵夫人？但你不能错过它；这是一辆马车和一对。

That was what I wished her to know, so that she should regard me as someone of importance. But when I had uttered the words ‘Marquise’ and ‘carriage and pair,’ suddenly I had a great sense of calm. I felt that the fisher-girl would remember me, and I felt vanishing, with my fear of not being able to meet her again, part also of my desire to meet her. It seemed to me that I had succeeded in touching her person with invisible lips, and that I had pleased her. And this assault and capture of her mind, this immaterial possession had taken from her part of her mystery, just as physical possession does.
这就是我希望她知道的，这样她就会把我视为重要的人。但当我说出“侯爵夫人”和“马车和配对”这两个词时，我突然有一种非常平静的感觉。我觉得那个渔女会记得我，我感觉自己消失了，因为我担心无法再次见到她，这也是我想见到她的一部分愿望。在我看来，我已经成功地用看不见的嘴唇触碰了她的身体，而且我让她高兴了。这种对她思想的攻击和占领，这种非物质的占有，剥夺了她的部分神秘感，就像物质占有一样。

We came down towards Hudimesnil; suddenly I was overwhelmed with that profound happiness which I had not often felt since Combray; happiness analogous to that which had been given me by—among other things—the steeples of Martinville. But this time it remained incomplete. I had just seen, standing a little way back from the steep ridge over which we were passing, three trees, probably marking the entrance to a shady avenue, which made a pattern at which I was looking now not for the first time; I could not succeed in reconstructing the place from which they had been, as it were, detached, but I felt that it had been familiar to me once; so that my mind having wavered between some distant year and the present moment, Balbec and its surroundings began to dissolve and I asked myself whether the whole of this drive were not a make-believe, Balbec a place to which I had never gone save in imagination, Mme. de Villeparisis a character in a story and the three old trees the reality which one recaptures on raising one’s eyes from the book which one has been reading and which describes an environment into which one has come to believe that one has been bodily transported.
我们朝胡迪梅斯尼尔 (Hudimesnil) 方向走去。突然间，我被一种深深的幸福感淹没了，这是自贡布雷以来我从未经常感受到的。幸福类似于马丁维尔的尖塔等事物给我带来的幸福。但这一次它仍然不完整。我刚刚看到，在我们要经过的陡峭山脊后面不远的地方，有三棵树，可能标志着一条阴凉大道的入口，这形成了一种图案，我现在已经不是第一次看到它了。我无法成功地重建他们曾经分离的地方，但我觉得它曾经对我来说是熟悉的；因此，我的思绪在遥远的一年和现在的时刻之间摇摆不定，巴尔贝克及其周围的环境开始消失，我问自己，这整个旅程是否不是一个虚构的地方，巴尔贝克是一个我从未去过的地方，除了想象力，女士。德·维尔帕里是一个故事中的人物，而三棵老树是人们从正在阅读的书中抬起眼睛时重新捕捉到的现实，它描述了一个人们开始相信自己的身体已经进入其中的环境。

I looked at the three trees; I could see them plainly, but my mind felt that they were concealing something which it had not grasped, as when things are placed out of our reach, so that our fingers, stretched out at arm’s-length, can only touch for a moment their outer surface, and can take hold of nothing. Then we rest for a little while before thrusting out our arm with refreshed vigour, and trying to reach an inch or two farther. But if my mind was thus to collect itself, to gather strength, I should have to be alone. What would I not have given to be able to escape as I used to do on those walks along the Guermantes way, when I detached myself from my parents! It seemed indeed that I ought to do so now. I recognised that kind of pleasure which requires, it is true, a certain effort on the part of the mind, but in comparison with which the attractions of the inertia which inclines us to renounce that pleasure seem very slight. That pleasure, the object of which I could but dimly feel, that pleasure which I must create for myself, I experienced only on rare occasions, but on each of these it seemed to me that the things which had happened in the interval were of but scant importance, and that in attaching myself to the reality of that pleasure alone I could at length begin to lead a new life. I laid my hand for a moment across my eyes, so as to be able to shut them without Mme. de Villeparisis’s noticing. I sat there, thinking of nothing, then with my thoughts collected, compressed and strengthened I sprang farther forward in the direction of the trees, or rather in that inverse direction at the end of which I could see them growing within myself. I felt again behind them the same object, known to me and yet vague, which I could not bring nearer. And yet all three of them, as the carriage moved on, I could see coming towards me. Where had I looked at them before? There was no place near Combray where an avenue opened off the road like that. The site which they recalled to me, there was no room for it either in the scenery of the place in Germany where I had gone one year with my grandmother to take the waters. Was I to suppose, then, that they came from years already so remote in my life that the landscape which accompanied them had been entirely obliterated from my memory, and that, like the pages which, with sudden emotion, we recognise in a book which we imagined that we had never read, they surged up by themselves out of the forgotten chapter of my earliest infancy? Were they not rather to be numbered among those dream landscapes, always the same, at least for me in whom their unfamiliar aspect was but the objectivation in my dreams of the effort that I had been making while awake either to penetrate the mystery of a place beneath the outward appearance of which I was dimly conscious of there being something more, as had so often happened to me on the Guermantes way, or to succeed in bringing mystery back to a place which I had longed to know and which, from the day on which I had come to know it, had seemed to me to be wholly superficial, like Balbec? Or were they but an image freshly extracted from a dream of the night before, but already so worn, so altered that it seemed to me to come from somewhere far more distant? Or had I indeed never seen them before; did they conceal beneath their surface, like the trees, like the tufts of grass that I had seen beside the Guermantes way, a meaning as obscure, as hard to grasp as is a distant past, so that, whereas they are pleading with me that I would master a new idea, I imagined that I had to identify something in my memory? Or again were they concealing no hidden thought, and was it simply my strained vision that made me see them double in time as one occasionally sees things double in space? I could not tell. And yet all the time they were coming towards me; perhaps some fabulous apparition, a ring of witches or of norns who would propound their oracles to me. I chose rather to believe that they were phantoms of the past, dear companions of my childhood, vanished friends who recalled our common memories. Like ghosts they seemed to be appealing to me to take them with me, to bring them back to life. In their simple, passionate gesticulation I could discern the helpless anguish of a beloved person who has lost the power of speech, and feels that he will never be able to say to us what he wishes to say and we can never guess. Presently, at a cross-roads, the carriage left them. It was bearing me away from what alone I believed to be true, what would have made me truly happy; it was like my life.
我看着那三棵树；我可以清楚地看到它们，但我的心感觉它们正在隐藏一些它没有抓住的东西，就像当东西被放在我们够不到的地方时，我们的手指伸出一臂之遥，只能暂时触摸它们的东西。外表面，并且不能抓住任何东西。然后我们休息一会儿，然后充满活力地伸出手臂，试图再往前伸一两英寸。但如果我的心要这样平静下来，积聚力量，我就必须独自一人。当我与父母分离时，我会付出什么才能能够逃脱，就像我以前在盖尔芒特路上散步时所做的那样！看来我现在确实应该这么做了。我认识到那种快乐确实需要心灵付出一定的努力，但与此相比，使我们倾向于放弃这种快乐的惯性的吸引力显得非常微不足道。那种快乐，我只能隐约感觉到的对象，那种我必须为自己创造的快乐，我只在极少数的情况下经历过，但在我看来，每一次，在这段时间里发生的事情都不过是这并不重要，只要我全身心地投入到这种快乐的现实中，我就能最终开始过上新的生活。我把手放在眼睛上一会儿，这样就可以在没有夫人的情况下闭上眼睛。德维尔帕里西斯注意到了。我坐在那里，什么也不想，然后，随着我的思绪聚集、压缩和强化，我朝着树木的方向向前跳得更远，或者更确切地说，朝着相反的方向，在树的尽头，我可以看到它们在我体内生长。我再次感觉到他们身后有同一个物体，我知道但模糊，我无法将其靠近。 然而，当马车继续前行时，我可以看到他们三个人正朝我这边过来。我以前在哪里看过它们？贡布雷附近没有任何地方有这样的大道。他们向我回忆起的那个地点，在我和祖母去德国取水一年的地方的风景中也没有空间。那么，我是否可以假设，它们来自于我生命中已经如此遥远的岁月，以至于伴随它们的风景已经完全从我的记忆中消失了，就像我们突然激动地在一本书中认出的书页一样，我们想象我们从未读过，它们是从我最早的婴儿时期被遗忘的章节中自己涌出来的？如果它们不应该被归入那些梦中风景之中，至少对我来说，它们陌生的一面只是我在醒着时为洞察一个地方的神秘而所做的努力的客观化。在它的外表之下，我隐约意识到还有更多的东西，就像我在盖尔芒特路上经常发生的那样，或者成功地将神秘带回了一个我渴望知道的地方，从那天起我逐渐认识到这一点，对我来说似乎完全是肤浅的，就像巴尔贝克一样？或者它们只是从前一天晚上的梦中新鲜提取的图像，但已经如此破旧，如此改变，以至于在我看来它来自更遥远的地方？ 或者我以前确实从未见过他们吗？它们是否隐藏在它们的表面之下，就像我在盖尔芒特路旁看到的树木、草丛一样，隐藏着一种晦涩难懂的含义，就像遥远的过去一样难以理解，因此，尽管他们恳求我我会掌握一个新想法，我想象我必须识别我记忆中的某些东西？或者说，它们是否没有隐藏任何隐藏的想法，而仅仅是我紧张的视力让我看到它们在时间上重叠，就像人们偶尔看到事物在空间上重叠一样？我不知道。然而他们一直向我走来；也许是一些神话般的幽灵，一群女巫或诺恩，他们会向我提出他们的神谕。我宁愿相信他们是过去的幻影，是我童年的亲密伙伴，是回忆起我们共同记忆的消失的朋友。就像幽灵一样，它们似乎在吸引我带它们一起去，让它们复活。从他们简单而充满激情的手势中，我可以看出一个心爱的人失去了言语的能力，感到他永远无法对我们说出他想说的话，我们也永远无法猜测的无助痛苦。不一会儿，在一个十字路口，马车就离开了他们。它让我远离了我所相信的真实的东西，那些会让我真正快乐的东西；这就像我的生活。

I watched the trees gradually withdraw, waving their despairing arms, seeming to say to me: ‘What you fail to learn from us to-day, you will never know. If you allow us to drop back into the hollow of this road from which we sought to raise ourselves up to you, a whole part of yourself which we were bringing to you will fall for ever into the abyss.’ And indeed if, in the course of time, I did discover the kind of pleasure and of disturbance which I had just been feeling once again, and if one evening—too late, but then for all time—I fastened myself to it, of those trees themselves I was never to know what they had been trying to give me nor where else I had seen them. And when, the road having forked and the carriage with it, I turned my back on them and ceased to see them, with Mme. de Villeparisis asking me what I was dreaming about, I was as wretched as though I had just lost a friend, had died myself, had broken faith with the dead or had denied my God.
我看着树木渐渐退去，挥舞着绝望的手臂，似乎在对我说：“你今天没有从我们身上学到的东西，你永远不会知道。”如果你允许我们掉回这条我们试图将自己提升到你面前的道路的凹处，那么我们带给你的你的整个部分将永远落入深渊。”事实上，如果，在随着时间的推移，我确实再次感受到了我刚才感受到的那种快乐和不安，如果有一天晚上——为时已晚，但永远——我把自己固定在它上面，那些树本身我从来没有知道他们一直想给我什么，也知道我在其他地方见过他们。当道路和马车分叉时，我转过身去，不再看到他们和夫人。德·维尔帕里西斯问我梦到了什么，我感到非常悲惨，就好像我刚刚失去了一位朋友，我自己也死了，对死者背弃了信仰，或者否认了我的上帝。

It was time to be thinking of home. Mme. de Villeparisis, who had a certain feeling for nature, colder than that of my grandmother but capable of recognising, even outside museums and noblemen’s houses, the simple and majestic beauty of certain old and venerable things, told her coachman to take us back by the old Balbec road, a road little used but planted with old elm-trees which we thought quite admirable.
是时候想家了。女士。德·维尔帕里西斯对自然有一定的感情，比我祖母的感情还要冷漠，但即使在博物馆和贵族住宅之外，她也能识别出某些古老而令人尊敬的事物的简单而雄伟的美丽，她告诉她的马车夫用小路带我们回去。老巴尔贝克路，一条很少有人使用的路，但种满了老榆树，我们觉得很令人钦佩。

Once we had got to know this road, for a change we would return—that is, if we had not taken it on the outward journey—by another which ran through the woods of Chantereine and Canteloup. The invisibility of the numberless birds that took up one another’s song close beside us in the trees gave me the same sense of being at rest that one has when one shuts one’s eyes. Chained to my back-seat like Prometheus on his rock I listened to my Oceanides. And when it so happened that I caught a glimpse of one of those birds as it passed from one leaf to another, there was so little apparent connexion between it and the songs that I heard that I could not believe that I was beholding their cause in that little body, fluttering, startled and unseeing.
一旦我们熟悉了这条路，如果我们没有在外出的旅程中走这条路的话，我们就会换乘另一条穿过Chantereine和Canteloup树林的路返回。无数的鸟儿在我们旁边的树林里互相唱着歌，它们的隐形给我带来了一种休息的感觉，就像闭上眼睛时一样。我就像被锁在岩石上的普罗米修斯一样被锁在后座上，听着我的《Oceanides》。当我碰巧瞥见其中一只鸟从一片叶子飞向另一片叶子时，它和我听到的歌曲之间几乎没有明显的联系，我简直不敢相信我在其中看到了它们的原因。那小小的身体，颤抖着，受到惊吓，看不见。

This road was like many others of the same kind which are to be found in France, climbing on a fairly steep gradient to its summit and then gradually falling for the rest of the way. At the time, I found no great attraction in it, I was only glad to be going home. But it became for me later on a frequent source of joy by remaining in my memory as a lodestone to which all the similar roads that I was to take, on walks or drives or journeys, would at once attach themselves without breach of continuity and would be able, thanks to it, to communicate directly with my heart. For as soon as the carriage or the motor-car turned into one of these roads that seemed to be merely the continuation of the road along which I had driven with Mme. de Villeparisis, the matter to which I found my consciousness directly applying itself, as to the most recent event in my past, would be (all the intervening years being quietly obliterated) the impressions that I had had on those bright summer afternoons and evenings, driving round Balbec, when the leaves smelt good, a mist rose from the ground, and beyond the village close at hand one could see through the trees the sun setting as though it had been merely some place farther along the road, a forest place and distant, which we should not have time to reach that evening. Harmonised with what I was feeling now in another place, on a similar road, surrounded by all the accessory sensations of breathing deep draughts of air, of curiosity, indolence, appetite, lightness of heart which were common to them both, and excluding all others, these impressions would be reinforced, would take on the consistency of a particular type of pleasure, and almost of a setting of life which, as it happened, I rarely had the luck to-come across, but in which these awakened memories placed, amid the reality that my senses could perceive, no small part of a reality suggested, dreamed, unseizable, to give me, among those regions through which I was passing, more than an aesthetic feeling, a transient but exalted ambition to stay there and to live there always. How often since then, simply because I could smell green leaves, has not being seated on a backseat opposite Mme. de Villeparisis, meeting the Princesse de Luxembourg who waved a greeting to her from her own carriage, coming back to dinner at the Grand Hotel appeared to me as one of those indescribable happinesses which neither the present nor the future can restore to us, which we may taste once only in a lifetime.
这条路就像法国的许多其他同类路一样，沿着相当陡峭的坡度爬到山顶，然后在剩下的路途上逐渐下降。当时我并没有发现什么太大的吸引力，只是很高兴能回家。但后来它成为我经常快乐的源泉，因为它像一块磁石一样留在我的记忆中，我要走的所有类似的道路，无论是散步、开车还是旅行，都会立即附着在上面，而不会破坏连续性，并且会多亏了它，我才能够直接与我的心交流。因为一旦马车或汽车驶入其中一条道路，那条道路似乎只是我和夫人一起行驶的那条道路的延续。 de Villeparisis，我发现我的意识直接应用到的事情，至于我过去最近发生的事件，将是（所有中间的岁月都被悄悄地抹掉）我在那些明亮的夏日午后和夜晚的印象，开车绕过巴尔贝克，当树叶闻起来很香的时候，一股薄雾从地里升起，在近在咫尺的村庄之外，人们可以透过树林看到夕阳西下，仿佛那只是路边的某个地方，一个森林里的地方，距离很远，我们那天晚上应该没有时间到达。 与我现在在另一个地方、在一条相似的路上所感受到的感觉很一致，周围都是呼吸深深的空气、好奇、懒惰、食欲、心情轻松的所有附属感觉，这些感觉对他们来说都是共同的，并且排除了所有其他感觉，这些印象会得到加强，会呈现出一种特定类型的快乐的一致性，并且几乎是一种生活环境，而碰巧，我很少有幸遇到这种生活环境，但这些被唤醒的记忆放置在其中，在我的感官所能感知到的现实中，有很大一部分现实暗示着、梦想着、无法抓住，在我所经过的那些地区中，它给我的不仅仅是一种美感，还有一种短暂但崇高的野心，想要留在那里，永远住在那里。从那时起，有多少次，仅仅因为我能闻到绿叶的味道，我就不再坐在夫人对面的后座上。维尔帕里西斯遇见卢森堡公主，她在自己的马车上向她挥手致意，回到大酒店吃晚饭，这对我来说是一种难以形容的幸福，无论是现在还是未来都无法恢复给我们。一生可能只能品尝一次。

Often dusk would have fallen before we reached the hotel. Timidly I would quote to Mme. de Villeparisis, pointing to the moon in the sky, some memorable expression of Chateaubriand or Vigny or Victor Hugo: ‘Shedding abroad that ancient secret of melancholy’ or ‘Weeping like Diana by the brink of her streams’ or ‘The shadows nuptial, solemn and august.’
在我们到达酒店之前，常常黄昏已经降临。我胆怯地向女士引用。德·维尔帕里西斯指着天空中的月亮，这是夏多布里昂、维尼或维克多·雨果的一些令人难忘的表达：“将古老的忧郁秘密抛向国外”或“像戴安娜一样在溪流边哭泣”或“婚礼的阴影，庄严”和八月。

‘And so you think that good, do you?’ she would ask, ‘inspired, as you call it. I must confess that I am always surprised to see people taking things seriously nowadays which the friends of those gentlemen, while doing ample justice to their merits, were the first to laugh at. People weren’t so free then with the word ‘inspired’ as they are now, when if you say to a writer that he has mere talent he thinks you’re insulting him. You quote me a fine passage from M. de Chateaubriand about moonlight. You shall see that I have my own reasons for being refractory. M. de Chateaubriand used constantly to come to see my father. He was quite a pleasant person when you were alone with him, because then he was simple and amusing, but the moment he had an audience he would begin to pose, and then he became absurd; when my father was in the room, he pretended that he had flung his resignation in the King’s face, and that he had controlled the voting in the Conclave, forgetting that it was my father whom he had asked to beg the King to take him back, and that my father had heard him make the most idiotic forecasts of the Papal election. You ought to have heard M. de Blacas on that famous Conclave; he was a very different kind of man from M. de Chateaubriand. As to his fine phrases about the moon, they became part of our regular programme for entertaining our guests. Whenever there was any moonlight about the house, if there was anyone staying with us for the first time he would be told to take M. de Chateaubriand for a stroll after dinner. When they came in, my father would take his guest aside and say: ‘Well, and was M. de Chateaubriand very eloquent?’—‘Oh, yes.’ ‘He’s been talking about the moon?’—‘Yes, how did you know?’—‘One moment, didn’t he say——‘ and then my father would quote the passage. ‘He did; but how in the world...?’—‘And he spoke to you of the moonlight on the Roman Campagna?’—‘But, my dear sir, you’re a magician.’ My father was no magician, but M. de Chateaubriand had the same little speech about the moon which he served up every time.’
“所以你认为这很好，是吗？”她会问，“正如你所说的，受到启发。”我必须承认，我总是惊讶地看到现在人们认真对待事情，而那些先生们的朋友虽然对他们的优点充分公正，却首先嘲笑他们。那时的人们并不像现在这样自由地使用“灵感”这个词，如果你对一个作家说他只有天赋，他会认为你在侮辱他。你引用了夏多布里昂先生关于月光的精彩段落。你会发现我的顽固是有我自己的原因的。夏多布里昂先生常常来看我父亲。当你单独和他在一起的时候，他是一个很令人愉快的人，因为那时他很简单，很有趣，但是当他有观众的时候，他就开始摆姿势，然后他就变得荒谬了；当我父亲在房间里时，他假装他已经当着国王的面提出了辞职，并且他控制了秘密会议的投票，却忘记了他要求国王带他回来的是我父亲，而且我父亲听到他对教皇选举做出了最愚蠢的预测。你应该在著名的秘密会议上听过德·布拉卡斯先生的讲话；他与夏多布里昂先生截然不同。至于他关于月亮的美言，也成了我们招待客人的固定节目的一部分。每当屋子里有月光的时候，如果有人第一次和我们住在一起，他就会被告知晚饭后带夏多布里昂先生去散步。当他们进来时，我父亲会把他的客人拉到一边说：“嗯，德·夏多布里昂先生很能言善辩吗？”——“哦，是的。”“他一直在谈论月亮？”——“是的，他怎么会说呢？”你知道？”——“等一下，他不是说——”然后我父亲就会引用这段话。 ‘他做到了；但到底怎么……？”——“他对你谈到了罗马平原上的月光？”——“但是，我亲爱的先生，你是一个魔术师。”我的父亲不是魔术师，但M.夏多布里昂每次都会发表同样的关于月亮的简短演讲。’

At the mention of Vigny she laughed: ‘The man who said: ‘I am the Comte Alfred de Vigny!’ One either is a Comte or one isn’t; it is not of the slightest importance.’ And then perhaps she discovered that it was after all, of some slight importance, for she went on: ‘For one thing I am by no means sure that he was, and in any case he was of the humblest origin, that gentleman who speaks in his verses of his ‘Esquire’s crest.’ In such charming taste, is it not, and so interesting to his readers! Like Musset, a plain Paris cit, who laid so much stress on ‘The golden falcon that surmounts my helm.’ As if you would ever hear a real gentleman say a thing like that! And yet Musset had some talent as a poet. But except Cinq-Mars I have never been able to read a thing by M. de Vigny. I get so bored that the book falls from my hands. M. Mole, who had all the cleverness and tact that were wanting in M. de Vigny, put him properly in his place when he welcomed him to the Academy. Do you mean to say you don’t know the speech? It is a masterpiece of irony and impertinence.’ She found fault with Balzac, whom she was surprised to see her nephews admire, for having pretended to describe a society ‘in which he was never received’ and of which his descriptions were wildly improbable. As for Victor Hugo, she told us that M. de Bouillon, her father, who had friends among the young leaders of the Romantic movement, had been taken by some of them to the first performance of Hernani, but that he had been unable to sit through it, so ridiculous had he found the lines of that talented but extravagant writer who had acquired the title of ‘Major Poet’ only by virtue of having struck a bargain, and as a reward for the not disinterested indulgence that he shewed to the dangerous errors of the Socialists.
一提到维尼，她笑了：“那个说‘我是阿尔弗雷德·德·维尼伯爵！’的人要么是伯爵，要么不是；一个人要么是伯爵，要么不是。” ”然后也许她发现这毕竟是一个不太重要的事情，因为她接着说：“首先，我决不能确定他是，无论如何，他是这位出身最卑微的绅士，在他的诗句中谈到了他的“绅士徽章”。他的品味是如此迷人，对他的读者来说如此有趣，不是吗？就像缪塞，一个普通的巴黎人，他非常强调“超越我头盔的金色猎鹰”。好像你听过一个真正的绅士说过这样的话！然而缪塞还是有一定的诗人天赋的。但除了《五战》之外，我从来没读过德·维尼先生的任何作品。我太无聊了，书从我手里掉了下来。莫尔先生拥有德·维尼先生所需要的所有聪明才智和机智，当他欢迎德·维尼先生来到学院时，他把他正确地安置在了自己的位置上。你的意思是说你不知道演讲内容吗？这是一部讽刺和无礼的杰作。”她对巴尔扎克提出了批评，她很惊讶地看到她的侄子们钦佩巴尔扎克，因为他假装描述了一个“他从未被接待过”的社会，而且他的描述极不可能。至于维克多·雨果，她告诉我们，M. 她的父亲德·布永在浪漫主义运动的年轻领袖中有朋友，他们中的一些人带他去看了埃尔纳尼的首演，但他无法坐下来看完，因为他觉得台词太可笑了这位才华横溢但奢侈的作家的名字只是通过讨价还价而获得“主要诗人”的称号，并且作为对他对社会主义者危险错误的不无私放纵的奖励。

We had now come in sight of the hotel, with its lights, so hostile that first evening, on our arrival, now protecting and kind, speaking to us of home. And when the carriage drew up outside the door, the porter, the pages, the lift-boy, attentive, clumsy, vaguely uneasy at our lateness, were numbered, now that they had grown familiar, among those beings who change so many times in the course of our life, as we ourself change, but by whom, when they are for the time being the mirror of our habits, we find something attractive in the feeling that we are being faithfully reflected and in a friendly spirit. We prefer them to friends whom we have not seen for some time, for they contain more of what we actually are. Only the outside page, exposed to the sun all day, had been taken indoors for protection from the cold night air and swaddled in thick woollen garments which, combined with the orange effulgence of his locks and the curiously red bloom of his cheeks, made one, seeing him there through the glass front of the hall, think of a hot-house plant muffled up for protection from the frost. We got out of the carriage, with the help of a great many more servants than were required, but they were conscious of the importance of the scene and each felt obliged to take some part in it. I was always very hungry. And so, often, so as not to keep dinner waiting, I would not go upstairs first to the room which had succeeded in becoming so really mine that to catch sight of its long violet curtains and low bookcases was to find myself alone again with that self of which things, like people, gave me a reflected image; but we would all wait together in the hall until the head waiter came to tell us that our dinner was ready. And this gave us another opportunity of listening to Mme. de Villeparisis.
现在我们已经看到了酒店​​，酒店的灯光在我们到达的第一个晚上充满了敌意，现在却充满了保护和友善，向我们讲述着家的事。当马车停在门外时，门房、侍者、电梯男孩，细心、笨拙，对我们的迟到感到隐约不安，现在他们已经变得熟悉了，在那些在生活中改变了很多次的人中被编号。我们生活的过程，随着我们自己的改变，但由谁，当它们暂时成为我们习惯的镜子时，我们会发现一些有吸引力的感觉，我们被忠实地反映并以友好的精神。比起好久不见的朋友，我们更喜欢他们，因为他们更能体现我们的真实面目。只有外面的那一页整天暴露在阳光下，被带到室内以免受夜间寒冷的空气影响，并裹在厚厚的羊毛衣服中，这与他闪亮的橙色头发和脸颊奇特的红色相结合，使他看起来很漂亮。透过大厅的玻璃看到他，就想起温室里的植物为了抵御霜冻而被遮盖起来。我们在比需要的数量多得多的仆人的帮助下下了马车，但他们意识到这一场景的重要性，每个人都觉得有义务参与其中。我总是很饿。因此，为了不让晚餐久等，我常常不会先上楼去那个已经完全属于我的房间，以至于看到它长长的紫罗兰色窗帘和低矮的书架，我就发现自己又独自一人面对着那个房间。事物就像人一样，给了我一个反映的形象；但我们都会一起在大厅里等待，直到领班过来告诉我们晚餐准备好了。这给了我们另一个聆听女士讲话的机会。 德维尔帕里西斯。

‘But you must be tired of us by now,’ protested my grandmother.
“但你现在一定厌倦了我们，”我祖母抗议道。

‘Not at all! Why, I am delighted, what could be nicer?’ replied her friend with a winning smile, drawing out, almost intoning her words in a way that contrasted markedly with her customary simplicity of speech.
'一点也不！为什么，我很高兴，还有什么比这更好的呢？”她的朋友带着迷人的微笑回答道，她拖长了语气，几乎是在吟诵她的话，这与她惯常的简单言语形成了鲜明的对比。

And indeed at such moments as this she was not natural, her mind reverted to her early training, to the aristocratic manner in which a great lady is supposed to shew common people that she is glad to see them, that she is not at all stiff. And her one and only failure in true politeness lay in this excess of politeness; which it was easy to identify as one of the professional ‘wrinkles’ of a lady of the Faubourg Saint-Germain, who, always seeing in her humbler friends the latent discontent that she must one day arouse in their bosoms, greedily seizes every opportunity en which she can possibly, in the ledger in which she keeps her social account with them, write down a credit balance which will allow her to enter presently on the opposite page the dinner or reception to which she will not invite them. And so, having long ago taken effect in her once and for all, and ignoring the fact that now both the circumstances and the people concerned were different, that in Paris she hoped to see us often come to her house, the spirit of her caste was urging Mme. de Villeparisis on with feverish ardour, and as if the time that was allowed her for being kind to us was limited, to multiply, while we were still at Balbec, her gifts of roses and melons, loans of books, drives in her carriage and verbal effusions. And for that reason, quite as much as the dazzling glories of the beach, the many-coloured flamboyance and subaqueous light of the rooms, as much even as the riding-lessons by which tradesmen’s sons were deified like Alexander of Macedon, the daily kindnesses shewn us by Mme. de Villeparisis and also the unaccustomed, momentary, holiday ease with which my grandmother accepted them have remained in my memory as typical of life at a watering-place.
事实上，在这样的时刻，她很不自然，她的思想又回到了她早期所受的训练，回到了一位伟大的女士应该向普通人表明她很高兴见到他们的贵族态度，她一点也不僵硬。 。她在真正的礼貌方面唯一的失败就在于这种过度的礼貌。这很容易被认为是圣日耳曼郊区一位女士的职业“皱纹”之一，她总是在她卑微的朋友们身上看到潜在的不满，而她有一天一定会在他们的心中激起潜在的不满，贪婪地抓住每一个机会她可以在她与他们保持社交帐户的分类帐中写下贷方余额，这将使她能够立即在另一页上输入她不会邀请他们参加的晚宴或招待会。因此，在巴黎，她希望看到我们经常到她家里来，她种姓的精神早已在她身上一劳永逸地生效了，而忽略了现在情况和有关人员都不同了的事实。正在催促女士。德·维尔帕里西斯带着狂热的热情继续前行，仿佛她对我们友善的时间是有限的，当我们还在巴尔贝克时，她送来的玫瑰和甜瓜的礼物、借来的书籍、驾驶着她的马车和言语积液。正因为如此，海滩上的光彩夺目，房间里五光十色的华丽和水下的灯光，甚至商人的儿子们像马其顿的亚历山大一样被神化的骑马课程，每天的善意女士向我们展示了。德维尔帕里西斯，以及我祖母接受它们时所表现出的不习惯的、短暂的、假期般的轻松，都留在了我的记忆中，就像典型的饮水场生活一样。

‘Give them your cloaks to take upstairs.’
“把你的斗篷交给他们，让他们带到楼上。”

My grandmother handed hers to the manager, and because he had been so nice to me I was distressed by this want of consideration, which seemed to pain him.
我的祖母把她的交给了经理，因为他对我很好，我对这种缺乏考虑感到苦恼，这似乎让他很痛苦。

‘I think you’ve hurt his feelings,’ said the Marquise. ‘He probably fancies himself too great a gentleman to carry your wraps. I remember so well the Duc de Nemours, when I was still quite little, coming to see my father who was living then on the top floor of the Bouillon house, with a fat parcel under his arm of letters and newspapers. I can see the Prince now, in his blue coat, framed in our doorway, which had such pretty woodwork round it—I think it was Bagard made it—you know those fine laths that they used to cut, so supple that the joiner would twist them sometimes into little shells and flowers, like the ribbons round a nosegay. ‘Here you are, Cyrus,’ he said to my father, ‘look what your porter’s given me to bring you. He said to me: ‘Since you’re going up to see the Count, it’s not worth my while climbing all those stairs; but take care you don’t break the string.‘‘ Now that you have got rid of your things, why don’t you sit down; look, sit in this seat,’ she said to my grandmother, taking her by the hand.
“我认为你伤害了他的感情，”侯爵夫人说。 “他可能自认为是一位伟大的绅士，无法为你包袱。我清楚地记得内穆尔公爵，当我还很小的时候，他来看望当时住在布永房子顶楼的父亲，他胳膊下夹着一个装满信件和报纸的大包裹。我现在可以看到王子，穿着他的蓝色外套，挂在我们的门口，周围有非常漂亮的木制品——我想这是巴加德做的——你知道他们过去切割的那些精美的板条，如此柔软，细木工会有时将它们扭成小贝壳和花朵，就像花束上的丝带一样。 “赛勒斯，你来了，”他对我父亲说，“看看你的搬运工让我给你带来什么。”他对我说：‘既然你要上去见伯爵，那么不值得我爬那么多楼梯；但要小心别把绳子弄断了。‘既然你已经把东西处理掉了，为什么不坐下来呢？看，坐在这个座位上，”她拉着祖母的手对她说道。

‘Oh, if you don’t mind, not in that one! There is not room for two, and it’s too big for me by myself; I shouldn’t feel comfortable.’
‘哦，如果你不介意的话，就不要在那一个！空间不够两个人住，而且对于我一个人来说也太大了；我不应该感到不舒服。

‘You remind me, for it was exactly like this, of a seat that I had for many years until at last I couldn’t keep it any longer because it had been given to my mother by the poor Duchesse de Praslin. My mother, though she was the simplest person in the world, really, had ideas that belonged to another generation, which even in those days I could scarcely understand; and at first she had not been at all willing to let herself be introduced to Mme. de Praslin, who had been plain Mlle. Sébastian!, while she, because she was a Duchess, felt that it was not for her to be introduced to my mother. And really, you know,’ Mme. de Villeparisis went on, forgetting that she herself did not understand these fine shades of distinction, ‘even if she had just been Mme. de Choiseul, there was a good deal to be said for her claim. The Choiseuls are everything you could want; they spring from a sister of Louis the Fat; they were ruling princes down in Basigny. I admit that we beat them in marriages and in distinction, but the precedence is pretty much the same. This little difficulty gave rise to several amusing incidents, such as a luncheon party which was kept waiting a whole hour or more before one of these ladies could make up her mind to let herself be introduced to the other. In spite of which they became great friends, and she gave my mother a seat like that, in which people always refused to sit, just as you did, until one day my mother heard a carriage drive into the courtyard. She asked a young servant we had, who it was. ‘The Duchesse de La Rochefoucauld, ma’am.’ ‘Very well, say that I am at home.’ A quarter of an hour passed; no one came. ‘What about the Duchesse de La Rochefoucauld?’ my mother asked. ‘Where is she?’ ‘She’s on the stairs, ma’am, getting her breath,’ said the young servant, who had not been long up from the country, where my mother had the excellent habit of getting all her servants. Often she had seen them born. That’s the only way to get really good ones. And they’re the rarest of luxuries. And sure enough the Duchesse de La Rochefoucauld had the greatest difficulty in getting upstairs, for she was an enormous woman, so enormous, indeed, that when she did come into the room my mother was quite at a loss for a moment to know where to put her. And then the seat that Mme. de Praslin had given her caught her eye. ‘Won’t you sit down?’ she said, bringing it forward. And the Duchess filled it from side to side. She was quite a pleasant woman, for all her massiveness. ‘She still creates an effect when she comes in,’ one of our friends said once. ‘She certainly creates an effect when she goes out,’ said my mother, who was rather more free in her speech than would be thought proper nowadays. Even in Mme. de La Rochefoucauld’s own drawing-room people weren’t afraid to make fun of her to her face (at which she was always the first to laugh) over her ample proportions. ‘But are you all alone?’ my grandmother once asked M. de La Rochefoucauld, when she had come to pay a call on the Duchess, and being met at the door by him had not seen his wife who was at the other end of the room. ‘Is Mme. de La Rochefoucauld not at home? I don’t see her.’—‘How charming of you!’ replied the Duke, who had about the worst judgment of any man I have ever known, but was not altogether lacking in humour.’
“你让我想起了，因为它正是这样的，我已经拥有了很多年的座位，直到最后我不能再保留它了，因为它是可怜的普拉兰公爵夫人送给我母亲的。”我的母亲虽然是世界上最简单的人，但她确实有属于另一代人的想法，即使在当时我也很难理解；起初她根本不愿意把自己介绍给夫人。德普拉兰女士，她本来就是个普通的女士。塞巴斯蒂安！，而她，因为她是公爵夫人，觉得不应该把她介绍给我母亲。真的，你知道，”女士。德·维尔帕里西斯继续说道，忘记了她自己并不理解这些细微的区别，“即使她刚刚成为夫人”。 de Choiseul，她的说法有很多值得说的。 Choiseuls 是您想要的一切；他们是胖子路易的妹妹的后代。他们是巴西尼的统治者。我承认我们在婚姻和荣誉方面击败了他们，但优先顺序几乎是一样的。这个小困难引发了一些有趣的事件，例如在一次午餐聚会上，其中一位女士花了整整一个小时或更长时间才决定将自己介绍给另一位女士。尽管如此，他们还是成为了好朋友，她给了我母亲一个这样的座位，人们总是拒绝坐，就像你一样，直到有一天我母亲听到一辆马车驶进院子。她问我们的一个年轻仆人是谁。 “拉罗什富科公爵夫人，女士。” “很好，就说我在家吧。” 一刻钟过去了。没有人来。 “拉罗什富科公爵夫人呢？”我母亲问道。 '她在哪？” “她在楼梯上，女士，正在喘口气，”年轻的仆人说，她刚从乡下回来不久，我母亲有一个很好的习惯，就是把她所有的仆人都召集起来。她经常看到他们出生。这是获得真正优秀作品的唯一方法。它们是最稀有的奢侈品。果然，拉罗什富科公爵夫人上楼遇到了最大的困难，因为她是一位身材魁梧的女人，确实如此巨大，以至于当她走进房间时，我母亲一时不知所措，不知道该去哪里。把她。然后是女士的座位。普拉兰岛引起了她的注意。 “你不坐下吗？”她一边说，一边把东西递过来。公爵夫人把它从一边填到另一边。尽管她身材魁梧，但她是一个相当令人愉快的女人。 “当她进来时，她仍然会产生影响，”我们的一位朋友曾经说过。 “她出去的时候肯定会产生影响，”我母亲说，她的言论比现在​​人们认为的要自由得多。即使在女士。德拉罗什福科自己的客厅里的人并不害怕当面取笑她（她总是第一个笑）她的宽大比例。 “但是你们都是独自一人吗？”我的祖母有一次来拜访公爵夫人时问德拉罗什福科先生，他在门口迎接，并没有看到他在门另一端的妻子。房间。 “是夫人吗？”德拉罗什富科不在家吗？我没有看到她。”——“你真迷人！”公爵回答道，他的判断力几乎是我所认识的男人中最差的，但也不完全缺乏幽默感。’

After dinner, when I had retired upstairs with my grandmother, I said to her that the qualities which attracted us in Mme. de Villeparisis, her tact, her shrewdness, her discretion, her modesty in not referring to herself, were not, perhaps, of very great value since those who possessed them in the highest degree were simply people like Mole and Loménie, and that if the want of them can make our social relations unpleasant yet it did not prevent from becoming Chateaubriand, Vigny, Hugo, Balzac, a lot of foolish fellows who had no judgment, at whom it was easy to mock, like Bloch.... But at the name of Bloch, my grandmother cried out in protest. And she began to praise Mme. de Villeparisis. As we are told that it is the preservation of the species which guides our individual preferences in love, and, so that the child may be constituted in the most normal fashion, sends fat men in pursuit of lean women and vice versa, so in some dim way it was the requirements of my happiness threatened by my disordered nerves, by my morbid tendency to melancholy, to solitude, that made her allot the highest place to the qualities of balance and judgment, peculiar not only to Mme. de Villeparisis but to a society in which our ancestors saw blossom the minds of a Doudan, a M. de Rémusat, not to mention a Beausergent, a Joubert, a Sévigné, a type of mind that invests life with more happiness, with greater dignity than the converse refinements which brought a Baudelaire, a Poe, a Verlaine, a Rimbaud to sufferings, to a disrepute such as my grandmother did not wish for her daughter’s child. I interrupted her with a kiss and asked her if she had noticed some expression which Mme. de Villeparisis had used and which seemed to point to a woman who thought more of her noble birth than she was prepared to admit. In this way I used to submit my impressions of life to my grandmother, for I was never certain what degree of respect was due to anyone until she had informed me. Every evening I would come to her with the mental sketches that I had made during the day of all those non-existent people who were not her. Once I said to her: ‘I shouldn’t be able to live without you.’ ‘But you mustn’t speak like that;’ her voice was troubled. ‘We must harden our hearts more than that, you know. Or what would become of you if I went away on a journey? But I hope that you would be quite sensible and quite happy.’
晚饭后，当我和祖母一起上楼休息时，我对她说，夫人身上吸引我们的品质。德·维尔帕里西斯的机智、她的精明、她的谨慎、她不提及自己的谦逊，或许并没有多大价值，因为那些最能拥有这些品质的人只是莫尔和洛梅尼这样的人，而且如果缺乏它们可能会使我们的社会关系变得不愉快，但这并不能阻止我们成为夏多布里昂、维尼、雨果、巴尔扎克，这些愚蠢的家伙，他们没有判断力，很容易嘲笑他们，比如布洛赫……听到布洛赫的名字，我的祖母大声抗议。她开始称赞夫人。德维尔帕里西斯。正如我们所知道的那样，正是物种的保存指导了我们在爱情中的个人偏好，并且为了使孩子能够以最正常的方式构成，让胖男人去追求瘦女人，反之亦然，所以在某些情况下模糊地，正是我的幸福要求受到我紊乱的神经、我的忧郁、孤独的病态倾向的威胁，这使得她把最高的地位分配给平衡和判断力的品质，这不仅是我夫人所特有的。 de Villeparisis，而是一个我们的祖先见证了 Doudan、M. de Rémusat 的思想绽放的社会，更不用说 Beausergent、Joubert、Sévigné 的思想了，这种思想为生活带来更多的幸福和更大的尊严而相反的优雅却给波德莱尔、爱伦·坡、魏尔伦、兰波带来了苦难和名誉扫地，而我的祖母并不希望她女儿的孩子如此。我用一个吻打断了她，问她是否注意到了夫人的某种表情。 德·维尔帕里西斯曾用过，这似乎表明这位女士对自己高贵出身的重视程度超出了她愿意承认的程度。我常常通过这种方式向祖母表达我对生活的印象，因为在她告诉我之前，我永远无法确定对任何人应有何种程度的尊重。每天晚上，我都会带着我白天在脑海中画出的所有那些不存在的人（除了她之外）的素描来找她。有一次我对她说：“没有你我就活不下去。”“但你不可以那样说话；”她的声音很困扰。 ‘你知道，我们必须更加坚定我们的心。或者如果我去旅行的话你会怎么样？但我希望你能理智一点，幸福一点。’

‘I could manage to be sensible if you went away for a few days, but I should count the hours.’
“如果你离开几天，我可以保持理智，但我应该计算一下时间。”

‘But if I were to go away for months...’ (at the bare suggestion of such a thing my heart was wrung) ‘... for years... for...’
“但如果我要离开几个月……”（一听到这样的事情，我的心就揪痛）“……几年……为了……”

We both remained silent. We dared not look one another in the face. And yet I was suffering more keenly from her anguish than from my own. And so I walked across to the window, and said to her, with a studied clearness of tone but with averted eyes:
我们俩都保持沉默。我们不敢直视对方的脸。然而，她的痛苦比我自己的痛苦更让我痛苦。于是我走到窗前，用刻意清晰的语气对她说：

‘You know what a creature of habit I am. For the first few days after I have been parted from the people I love best, I am wretched. But though I go on loving them just as much, I grow used to their absence; life becomes calm, bearable, pleasant; I could stand being parted from them for months, for years...’
“你知道我是一个多么习惯的人。与我最爱的人分开后的最初几天，我感到很痛苦。尽管我仍然一如既往地爱着他们，但我已经习惯了他们的缺席。生活变得平静、可以忍受、愉快；我可以忍受与他们分开几个月、几年……”

I was obliged to stop, and looked straight out of the window. My grandmother went out of the room for something. But next day I began to talk to her about philosophy, and, speaking in a tone of complete indifference, but at the same time taking care that my grandmother should pay attention to what I was saying, I remarked what a curious thing it was that, according to the latest scientific discoveries, the materialist position appeared to be crumbling, and the most likely thing to be, once again, the survival of the soul and reunion in a life everlasting.
我不得不停下来，直视窗外。奶奶出去有事。但第二天我开始和她谈论哲学，用一种完全漠不关心的语气，但同时又注意让祖母注意我所说的话，我说这是一件多么奇怪的事情。根据最新的科学发现，唯物主义的立场似乎正在摇摇欲坠，最有可能的事情是，灵魂的再次存续和永生的团聚。

Mme. de Villeparisis gave us warning that presently she would not be able to see so much of us. A young nephew who was preparing for Sau-mur, and was meanwhile stationed in the neighbourhood, at Doncières, was coming to spend a few weeks’ furlough with her, and she would be devoting most of her time to him. In the course of our drives together she had boasted to us of his extreme cleverness, and above all of his goodness of heart; already I was imagining that he would have an instinctive feeling for me, that I was to be his best friend; and when, before his arrival, his aunt gave my grandmother to understand that he had unfortunately fallen into the clutches of an appalling woman with whom he was quite infatuated and who would never let him go, since I believed that that sort of love was doomed to end in mental aberration, crime and suicide, thinking how short the time was that was set apart for our friendship, already so great in my heart, although I had not yet set eyes on him, I wept for that friendship and for the misfortunes that were in store for it, as we weep for a person whom we love when some one has just told us that he is seriously ill and that his days are numbered.
女士。德维尔帕里西斯警告我们，目前她将无法见到我们这么多人。一个年轻的侄子正在为绍穆尔做准备，同时驻扎在东西埃尔附近，他要来和她一起休假几周，而她会把大部分时间都花在他身上。在我们一起开车的过程中，她向我们吹嘘他极其聪明，尤其是他的善良。我已经在想象他会对我产生一种本能的感觉，我会成为他最好的朋友；在他到来之前，他的姨妈让我祖母了解到，他不幸落入了一个令人震惊的女人的手中，他非常迷恋这个女人，而且她永远不会放开他，因为我相信这种爱情是注定的。以精神失常、犯罪和自杀告终，想着我们的友谊所剩的时间是多么短暂，在我心里已经如此伟大，虽然我还没有见到他，但我为那份友谊和不幸而哭泣就像当我们所爱的人刚刚告诉我们他病重并且他的日子屈指可数时，我们会为他哭泣一样。

One afternoon of scorching heat I was in the dining-room of the hotel, which they had plunged in semi-darkness, to shield it from the glare, by drawing the curtains which the sun gilded, while through the gaps between them I caught flashing blue glimpses of the sea, when along the central gangway leading inland from the beach to the high road I saw, tall, slender, his head held proudly erect upon a springing neck, a young man go past with searching eyes, whose skin was as fair and whose hair as golden as if they had absorbed all the rays of the%un. Dressed in a clinging, almost white material such as I could never have believed that any man would have the audacity to wear, the thinness of which suggested no less vividly than the coolness of the dining-room the heat and brightness of the glorious day outside, he was walking fast. His eyes, from one of which a monocle kept dropping, were of the colour of the sea. Everyone looked at him with interest as he passed, knowing that this young Marquis de Saint-Loup-en-Bray was famed for the smartness of his clothes. All the newspapers had described the suit in which he had recently acted as second to the young Duc d’Uzès in a duel. One felt that this so special quality of his hair, his eyes, his skin, his figure, which would have marked him out in a crowd like a precious vein of opal, azure-shot and luminous, embedded in a mass of coarser substance, must correspond to a life different from that led by other men. So that when, before the attachment which Mme. de Villeparisis had been deploring, the prettiest women in society had disputed the possession of him, his presence, at a watering-place for instance, in the company of the beauty of the season to whom he was paying court, not only made her conspicuous, but attracted every eye fully as much to himself. Because of his ‘tone,’ of his impertinence befitting a young ‘lion,’ and especially of his astonishing good looks, some people even thought him effeminate, though without attaching any stigma, for everyone knew how manly he was and that he was a passionate ‘womaniser.’ This was Mme. de Villeparisis’s nephew of whom she had spoken to us. I was overcome with joy at the thought that I was going to know him and to see him for several weeks on end, and confident that he would bestow on me all his affection. He strode rapidly across the hotel, seeming to be in pursuit of his monocle, which kept darting away in front of him like a butterfly. He was coming from the beach, and the sea which filled the lower half of the glass front of the hall gave him a background against which he was drawn at full length, as in certain portraits whose painters attempt, without in anyway falsifying the most accurate observation of contemporary life, but by choosing for their sitter appropriate surroundings, a polo ground, golf links, a racecourse, the bridge of a yacht, to furnish a modern equivalent of those canvases on which the old masters used to present the human figure in the foreground of a landscape. A carriage and pair was waiting for him at the door; and, while his monocle resumed its gambollings in the air of the sunlit street, with the elegance and mastery which a great pianist contrives to display in the simplest piece of execution, where it has not appeared possible that he could shew himself superior to a performer of the second class, Mme. de Villeparisis’s nephew, taking the reins that were handed him by the groom, jumped on to the box seat by his side and, while he opened a letter which the manager of the hotel sent out after him, made his horses start.
一个炎热的下午，我在酒店的餐厅里，为了遮挡强光，他们把餐厅置于半黑暗之中，拉上了阳光镀金的窗帘，透过窗帘之间的缝隙，我看到了闪烁的光芒。蓝色的大海一瞥，当沿着中央舷梯从海滩通向内陆的大路时，我看到一个年轻人，他身材高大，苗条，他的头自豪地直立在弹跳的脖子上，目光敏锐，他的皮肤像皮肤白皙，头发金黄，仿佛吸收了太阳的所有光芒。穿着一种紧贴的、几乎是白色的布料，我从来不相信任何一个男人都会有胆量穿着，它的薄度不亚于餐厅的凉爽，以及外面灿烂的一天的炎热和明亮。 ，他走得很快。他的眼睛呈大海的颜色，其中一只单片眼镜不断掉落。当他走过时，所有人都饶有兴趣地看着他，知道这位年轻的圣卢昂布雷侯爵以衣着考究而闻名。所有的报纸都描述了他最近在一场决斗中担任年轻的杜克·于泽斯公爵的第二名的诉讼。人们觉得他的头发、眼睛、皮肤和身材如此特殊，这会让他在人群中脱颖而出，就像镶嵌在一团粗糙物质中的珍贵的蛋白石矿脉，蔚蓝的、发光的，必须对应于与其他人不同的生活。因此，在附件之前，女士。 德维尔帕里西斯一直在哀叹，社会上最漂亮的女人都对他的占有提出异议，他的出现，例如在一个饮水场，与他向他求爱的季节之美在一起，不仅使她引人注目，却同样吸引了每一双眼睛。因为他的“语气”，因为他年轻“狮子”的无礼，尤其是他惊人的美貌，甚至有人认为他娘娘腔，但并不带有任何耻辱，因为谁都知道他有多么的男子气概，他是一个男人。热情的“好色之徒”。这是夫人。德·维尔帕里西斯的侄子，她曾向我们谈起过他。一想到我将要认识他并连续几周见到他，我就欣喜若狂，并相信他会给予我全部的感情。他大步穿过酒店，似乎在追寻他的单片眼镜，单片眼镜却像蝴蝶一样在他面前不断地飞舞。他从海滩过来，大厅玻璃下半部分充满了大海，给了他一个背景，在这个背景下，他被画成全身像，就像画家试图画的某些肖像画一样，但无论如何都没有伪造最准确的内容。对当代生活的观察，但通过为他们的拍摄者选择适当的环境，如马球场、高尔夫球场、赛马场、游艇的驾驶台，提供了与古代大师用来呈现人物形象的画布的现代等同物。风景的前景。 一辆马车和一对人在门口等着他。当他的单片眼镜在阳光明媚的街道上重新开始嬉戏时，他的优雅和精湛技艺就像一位伟大的钢琴家在最简单的演奏中所表现出来的那样，而在这方面，他似乎不可能表现出比表演者更高的水平。第二类，女士。德维尔帕里西斯的侄子接过马夫递给他的缰绳，跳到他身边的包厢座位上，一边打开酒店经理在他身后发出的一封信，一边催动他的马。

What a disappointment was mine on the days that followed, when, each time that I met him outside or in the hotel—his head erect, perpetually balancing the movements of his limbs round the fugitive and dancing monocle which seemed to be their centre of gravity—I was forced to admit that he had evidently no desire to make our acquaintance, and saw that he did not bow to us although he must have known that we were friends of his aunt. And calling to mind the friendliness that Mme. de Villeparisis, and before her M. de Norpois, had shewn me, I thought that perhaps they were only of a bogus nobility, and that there might be a secret section in the laws that govern the aristocracy which allowed women, perhaps, and certain diplomats to discard, in their relations with plebeians, for a reason which was beyond me, the stiffness which must, on the other hand, be pitilessly maintained by a young Marquis. My intelligence might have told me the opposite. But the characteristic feature of the silly phase through which I was passing—a phase by no means irresponsive, indeed highly fertile—is that we do not consult our intelligence and that the most trivial attributes of other people seem to us then to form an inseparable part of their personality. In a world thronged with monsters and with gods, we are barely conscious of tranquillity. There is hardly one of the actions which we performed in that phase which we would not give anything, in later life, to be able to erase from our memory. Whereas what we ought to regret is that we no longer possess the spontaneity which made us perform them. In later life we look at things in a more practical way, in full conformity with the rest of society, but youth was the only time in which we learned anything.
在接下来的日子里，每次我在外面或在酒店遇见他时，我都感到多么失望——他的头直立着，四肢的动作永远围绕着逃亡的、跳舞的单片眼镜，这似乎是他们的重心。 ——我不得不承认，他显然无意结识我们，并且看到他没有向我们鞠躬，尽管他一定知道我们是他姨妈的朋友。并让人想起女士的友善。德维尔帕里西斯，以及在她的德诺普瓦先生之前，曾向我表明，我认为也许他们只是一个假贵族，管理贵族的法律中可能有一个秘密部分，允许妇女，也许，和某些特定的人。出于我无法理解的原因，外交官们在与平民的关系中放弃了僵化，而另一方面，年轻的侯爵必须无情地保持这种僵化。我的智力可能告诉我相反的情况。但是，我正在经历的那个愚蠢阶段的特征——这个阶段绝不是反应迟钝，实际上是高度丰富的——是我们不咨询我们的智慧，而其他人最微不足道的属性在我们看来似乎形成了一个不可分割的关系。他们个性的一部分。在一个充满怪物和神明的世界里，我们几乎意识不到宁静。我们在那个阶段所做的每一件事，几乎没有一个是我们在以后的生活中不付出任何努力就能从我们的记忆中抹去的。然而我们应该遗憾的是，我们不再拥有使我们执行这些任务的自发性。在以后的生活中，我们以更实际的方式看待事物，完全与社会其他部分保持一致，但青年时期是我们唯一学到东西的时期。

This insolence which I surmised in M. de Saint-Loup, and all that it implied of ingrained severity, received confirmation from his attitude whenever he passed us, his body as inflexibly erect, his head always held as high, his gaze as impassive, or rather, I should say, as implacable, devoid of that vague respect which one has for the rights of other people, even if they do not know one’s aunt, one example of which was that I did not look in quite the same way at an old lady as at a gas lamp. These frigid manners were as far removed from the charming letters which, but a few days since, I had still been imagining him as writing to tell me of his regard for myself, as is removed from the enthusiasm of the Chamber and of the populace which he has been picturing himself as rousing by an imperishable speech, the humble, dull, obscure position of the dreamer who, after pondering it thus by himself, for himself, aloud, finds himself, once the imaginary applause has died away, just the same Tom, Dick or Harry as before. When Mme. de Villeparisis, doubtless in an attempt to counteract the bad impression that had been made on us by an exterior indicative of an arrogant and evil nature, spoke to us again of the inexhaustible goodness of her great-nephew (he was the son of one of her nieces, and a little older than myself), I marvelled how the world, with an utter disregard of truth, ascribes tenderness of heart to people whose hearts are in reality so hard and dry, provided only that they behave with common courtesy to the brilliant members of their own sets. Mme. de Villeparisis herself confirmed, though indirectly, my diagnosis, which was already a conviction, of the essential points of her nephew’s character one day when I met them both coming along a path so narrow that there was nothing for it but to introduce me to him. He seemed not to hear that a person’s name was being repeated to him, not a muscle of his face moved; his eyes, in which there shone not the faintest gleam of human sympathy, shewed merely in the insensibility, in the inanity of their gaze an exaggeration failing which there would have been nothing to distinguish them from lifeless mirrors. Then fastening on me those hard eyes, as though he wished to make sure of me before returning my salute, by an abrupt release which seemed to be due rather to a reflex action of his muscles than to an exercise of will, keeping between himself and me the greatest possible interval, he stretched his arm out to its full extension and, at the end of it, offered me his hand. I supposed that it must mean, at the very least, a duel when, next day, he sent me his card. But he spoke to me only of literature, declared after a long talk that he would like immensely to spend several hours with me every day. He had not only, in this encounter, given proof of an ardent zest for the things of the spirit, he had shewn a regard for myself which was little in keeping with his greeting of me the day before. After I had seen him repeat the same process whenever anyone was introduced to him, I realised that it was simply a social usage peculiar to his branch of the family, to which his mother, who had seen to it that he should be perfectly brought up, had moulded his limbs; he went through those motions without thinking, any more than he thought about his beautiful clothes or hair; they were a thing devoid of the moral significance which I had at first ascribed to them, a thing purely acquired like that other habit that he had of at once demanding an introduction to the family of anyone whom he knew, which had become so instinctive in him that, seeing me again the day after our talk, he fell upon me and without asking how I did begged me to make him known to my grandmother, who was with me, with the same feverish haste as if the request had been due to some instinct of self-preservation, like the act of warding off a blow, or of shutting one’s eyes to avoid a stream of boiling water, without which precautions it would have been dangerous to stay where one was a moment longer.
我猜想德·圣卢先生的这种傲慢，以及它所暗示的根深蒂固的严厉，每当他经过我们身边时，他的态度就证实了这一点：他的身体僵硬地直立着，他的头总是高高地昂着，他的目光冷漠，或者更确切地说，我应该说，毫不留情，缺乏对他人权利的模糊尊重，即使他们不认识自己的阿姨，其中一个例子是，我没有以完全相同的方式看待一位老妇人就像在煤气灯前一样。这些冷酷的举止与那些迷人的信件相去甚远，但几天后，我仍然想象着他写信来告诉我他对我自己的尊重，也与议事厅和民众的热情相去甚远。他一直想象着自己被一段不朽的演讲所唤醒，梦者处于谦卑、迟钝、晦涩的位置，在独自、为自己、大声地思考之后，发现自己，一旦想象中的掌声消失，就一样和以前一样，汤姆、迪克或哈利。当女士。毫无疑问，德·维尔帕里西斯是为了消除我们因外表傲慢而邪恶而给我们留下的坏印象，她再次向我们讲述了她的侄孙（他是一位贵族的儿子）的无尽善良。她的侄女们，比我大一点），我惊奇地发现，这个世界如何完全无视事实，将内心的温柔归因于那些实际上内心如此坚硬和干燥的人，只要他们表现出对社会的普遍礼貌。他们自己的组合中才华横溢的成员。女士。 有一天，德·维尔帕里西斯本人间接地证实了我对她侄子性格的基本特征的诊断，这已经是一种信念，当时我遇到了他们两人，他们走在一条如此狭窄的道路上，除了把我介绍给他之外，别无他法。 。他似乎没有听到有人向他重复着一个人的名字，他脸上的肌肉也没有动一下；他的眼睛里没有闪现出人类同情心的最微弱的光芒，只是在麻木不仁、目光空洞中表现出一种夸张，否则就没有什么可以将它们与毫无生气的镜子区分开来。然后，他用那双冷酷的眼睛紧紧地盯着我，仿佛他想在回礼之前先确认一下我的情况，然后突然松开了眼睛，这似乎是由于他肌肉的反射动作，而不是出于意志的运用，保持在他和他之间。他尽可能地向我伸出手臂，最后向我伸出了手。当第二天他寄给我他的​​卡片时，我认为这至少意味着一场决斗。但他只和我谈论文学，在一次长谈之后他宣称他非常愿意每天和我一起度过几个小时。在这次会面中，他不仅表现出了对精神事物的热情，而且还表现出了对我自己的尊重，这与他前一天对我的问候不太相符。 当我看到每当有人被介绍给他时，他都会重复同样的过程，我意识到这只是他的家族特有的一种社交习惯，他的母亲一直致力于让他受到完美的教育。 ，塑造了他的四肢；他不假思索地完成了这些动作，就像他不假思索地思考自己漂亮的衣服或头发一样。它们完全没有我最初赋予它们的道德意义，纯粹是后天养成的习惯，就像他立即要求将认识的任何人介绍给他的家人一样，这种习惯在他的生活中变得如此本能。他说，在我们谈话后的第二天，他再次见到我，他向我扑来，没有问我是怎么做的，而是恳求我让我的祖母知道他的情况，当时祖母和我在一起，语气同样狂热，就好像这个请求是出于他的目的。某种自我保护的本能，就像躲避打击的行为，或者闭上眼睛以避免滚烫的水流，如果没有这些预防措施，在原地多呆一会儿就会很危险。

The first rites of exorcism once performed, as a wicked fairy discards her outer form and endures all the most enchanting graces, I saw this disdainful creature become the most friendly, the most considerate young man that I had ever met. ‘Good,’ I said to myself, ‘I’ve been mistaken about him once already; I was taken in by a mirage; but I have corrected the first only to fall into a second, for he must be a great gentleman who has grown sick of his nobility and is trying to hide it.’ As a matter of fact it was not long before all the exquisite breeding, all the friendliness of Saint-Loup were indeed to let me see another creature but one very different from what I had suspected.
第一次驱魔仪式上演时，邪恶的仙女抛弃了她的外在，承受着所有最迷人的恩典，我看到这个傲慢的生物变成了我见过的最友善、最体贴的年轻人。 ‘很好，’我对自己说，‘我已经对他有过一次误解了；我被海市蜃楼所迷惑；但我纠正了第一个，结果却陷入了第二个，因为他一定是一位伟大的绅士，他厌倦了自己的高贵，并试图隐藏它。”事实上，不久之后，所有精致的教养就出现了，圣卢的所有友善确实让我看到了另一种生物，但与我所怀疑的完全不同。

This young man who had the air of a scornful, sporting aristocrat had in fact no respect, no interest save for and in the things of the spirit, and especially those modern manifestations of literature and art which seemed so ridiculous to his aunt; he was imbued, moreover, with what she called ‘Socialistic spoutings,’ was filled with the most profound contempt for his caste and spent long hours in the study of Nietzsche and Proudhon. He was one of those intellectuals, quick to admire what is good, who shut themselves up in a book, and are interested only in pure thought. Indeed in Saint-Loup the expression of this highly abstract tendency, which removed him so far from my customary preoccupations, while it seemed to me touching, also annoyed me not a little. I may say that when I realised properly who had been his father, on days when I had been reading memoirs rich in anecdotes of that famous Comte de Marsantes, in whom were embodied the special graces of a generation already remote, the mind full of speculation—anxious to obtain fuller details of the life that M. de Marsantes had led, it used to infuriate me that Robert de Saint-Loup, instead of being content to be the son of his father, instead of being able to guide me through the old-fashioned romance of what had been that father’s existence, had trained himself to enjoy Nietzsche and Proudhon. His father would not have shared my regret. He had been himself a man of brains, who had transcended the narrow confines of his life as a man of the world. He had hardly had time to know his son, but had hoped that his son would prove a better man than himself. And I really believe that, unlike the rest of the family, he would have admired his son, would have rejoiced at his abandoning what had been his own small diversions for austere meditations, and without saying a word, in his modesty as a great gentleman endowed with brains, he would have read in secret his son’s favourite authors in order to appreciate how far Robert was superior to himself.
这个年轻人有着一副轻蔑、爱运动的贵族气质，事实上，除了精神上的事物，尤其是那些在他姨妈看来如此可笑的现代文学和艺术表现形式之外，他没有任何尊重和兴趣。此外，他还充满了她所谓的“社会主义言论”，对自己的种姓充满了最深刻的蔑视，并花了很长时间研究尼采和蒲鲁东。他是那些很快就会欣赏美好事物的知识分子之一，他们把自己关在书本里，只对纯粹的思想感兴趣。事实上，圣卢表现出的这种高度抽象的倾向，使他远离了我惯常关注的事物，尽管这对我来说似乎很感人，但也让我感到不小的恼火。我可以说，当我正确地认识到谁是他的父亲时，当我阅读充满了那位著名的马桑特伯爵的轶事的回忆录时，他身上体现了已经遥远的一代人的特殊风采，头脑中充满了猜测——我急于想了解德·马桑特斯先生的生活的更全面的细节，罗伯特·德·圣卢不但不满足于成为他父亲的儿子，也不能够引导我度过一生，这让我很恼火。他对父亲的存在怀有老式的浪漫情怀，他训练自己去欣赏尼采和蒲鲁东。他的父亲不会和我一样感到遗憾。他本人就是一个有头脑的人，他超越了自己作为一个世俗人的生活的狭隘界限。他几乎没有时间去了解他的儿子，但他希望他的儿子会成为一个比他更好的人。 我真的相信，与家里的其他人不同，他会钦佩他的儿子，会为他放弃自己的小消遣而进行严肃的冥想而感到高兴，并且不言不语地表现出他作为一位伟大绅士的谦逊。如果他有头脑，他会偷偷地阅读儿子最喜欢的作家，以了解罗伯特比他自己优越得多。

There was, however, this rather painful consideration: that if M. de Marsantes, with his extremely open mind, would have appreciated a son so different from himself, Robert de Saint-Loup, because he was one of those who believe that merit is attached only to certain forms of art and life, had an affectionate but slightly contemptuous memory of a father who had spent all his time hunting and racing, who yawned at Wagner and raved over Offenbach. Saint-Loup had not the intelligence to see that intellectual worth has nothing to do with adhesion to any one aesthetic formula, and had for the intellectuality of M. de Marsantes much the same sort of scorn as might have been felt for Boieldieu or Labiche by a son of Boieldieu or Labiche who had become adepts in the most symbolic literature and the most complex music. ‘I scarcely knew my father,’ he used to say. ‘He seems to have been a charming person. His tragedy was the deplorable age in which he lived. To have been born in the Faubourg Saint-Germain and to have to live in the days of La Belle Hélène would be enough to wreck any existence. Perhaps if he’d been some little shopkeeper mad about the Ring he’d have turned out quite different. Indeed they tell me that he was fond of literature. But that can never be proved, because literature to him meant such utterly god-forsaken books.’ And in my own case, if I found Saint-Loup a trifle earnest, he could not understand why I was not more earnest still. Never judging anything except by the weight of the intelligence that it contained, never perceiving the magic appeal to the imagination that I found in things which he condemned as frivolous, he was astonished that I—I, to whom he imagined himself to be so utterly inferior—could take any interest in them.
然而，有一个相当痛苦的考虑：如果德·马桑特先生思想极其开放，他会欣赏一个与他如此不同的儿子罗伯特·德·圣卢，因为他是那些相信功绩是人的人之一。只依恋某些形式的艺术和生活，对父亲有一种深情但略带轻蔑的记忆，他把所有的时间都花在打猎和赛马上，对瓦格纳打哈欠，对奥芬巴赫赞不绝口。圣卢没有足够的智慧来认识到知识分子的价值与对任何一种美学公式的坚持无关，他对德·马桑特先生的知识分子的蔑视与对布瓦迪约或拉比什的蔑视差不多。布瓦迪厄（Boieldieu）或拉比什（Labiche）的儿子，精通最具象征意义的文学和最复杂的音乐。 “我几乎不了解我的父亲，”他常说。 ‘他看起来是一个很有魅力的人。他的悲剧是他所生活的可悲的时代。出生在圣日耳曼郊区并生活在美丽的海伦时代就足以毁掉任何存在。如果他是一个对魔戒很着迷的小店主，也许他的表现就会完全不同。事实上，他们告诉我他喜欢文学。但这永远无法证明，因为文学对他来说意味着完全被上帝遗弃的书。’而就我自己而言，如果我发现圣卢有一点认真，他就无法理解为什么我不更认真。他从来不根据事物所蕴含的智慧来判断任何事物，从来没有意识到我在他谴责为无聊的事物中发现的对想象力的神奇吸引力，他惊讶于我——我，他想象自己对我来说是如此完全劣等——可能会对他们产生任何兴趣。

>From the first Saint-Loup made a conquest of my grandmother, not only by the incessant acts of kindness which he went out of his way to shew to us both, but by the naturalness which he put into them as into everything. For naturalness—doubtless because through the artifice of man it allows a feeling of nature to permeate—was the quality which my grandmother preferred to all others, whether in gardens, where she did not like there to be, as there had been in our Combray garden, too formal borders, or at table, where she detested those dressed-up dishes in which you could hardly detect the foodstuffs that had gone to make them, or in piano-playing, which she did not like to be too finicking, too laboured, having indeed had a special weakness for the discords, the wrong notes of Rubinstein. This naturalness she found and enjoyed even in the clothes that Saint-Loup wore, of a pliant elegance, with nothing swagger, nothing formal about them, no stiffness or starch. She appreciated this rich young man still more highly for the free and careless way that he had of living in luxury without ‘smelling of money,’ without giving himself airs; she even discovered the charm of this naturalness in the incapacity which Saint-Loup had kept, though as a rule it is outgrown with childhood, at the same time as certain physiological peculiarities of that period, for preventing his face from at once reflecting every emotion. Something, for instance, that he wanted to have but had not expected, were it no more than a compliment, reacted in him in a burst of pleasure so quick, so burning, so volatile, so expansive that it was impossible for him to contain and to conceal it; a grin of delight seized irresistible hold of his face; the too delicate skin of his cheeks allowed a vivid glow to shine through them, his eyes sparkled with confusion and joy; and my grandmother was infinitely touched by this charming show of innocence and frankness, which, incidentally, in Saint-Loup—at any rate at the period of our first friendship—was not misleading. But I have known another person, and there are many such, in whom the physiological sincerity of that fleeting blush in no way excluded moral duplicity; as often as not it proves nothing more than the vivacity with which pleasure is felt—so that it disarms them and they are forced publicly to confess it—by natures capable of the vilest treachery. But where my grandmother did really adore Saint-Loup’s naturalness was in his way of admitting, without any evasion, his affection for me, to give expression to which he found words than which she herself, she told me, could not have thought of any more appropriate, more truly loving, words to which ‘Sévigné and Beausergent’ might have set their signatures. He was not afraid to make fun of my weaknesses—which he had discerned with an acuteness that made her smile—but as she herself would have done, lovingly, at the same time extolling my good qualities with a warmth, an impulsive freedom that shewed no sign of the reserve, the coldness by means of which young men of his age are apt to suppose that they give themselves importance. And he shewed in forestalling every discomfort, however slight, in covering my legs if the day had turned cold without my noticing it, in arranging (without telling me) to stay later with me in the evening if he thought that I was depressed or felt unwell, a vigilance which, from the point of view of my health, for which a more hardening discipline would perhaps have been better, my grandmother found almost excessive, though as a proof of his affection for myself she was deeply touched by it.
从一开始，圣卢就征服了我的祖母，不仅因为他不遗余力地向我们俩表现出持续不断的善行，而且还因为他对他们和一切事物都表现出自然的态度。因为自然——毫无疑问，因为通过人为的技巧，它可以让一种自然的感觉渗透进来——是我祖母比其他人更喜欢的品质，无论是在花园里，她不喜欢在那里，就像我们贡布雷那样。花园里，过于正式的边界，或者在餐桌上，她讨厌那些盛装打扮的菜肴，在这些菜肴中你几乎无法察觉到制作它们的食物，或者在钢琴演奏中，她也不喜欢太挑剔。确实对鲁宾斯坦的不和谐音和错误音符有特殊的弱点。即使在圣卢所穿的衣服中，她也发现并享受着这种自然，一种柔韧的优雅，没有任何招摇，没有任何正式，没有僵硬或刻板。她更欣赏这个富家公子，生活奢侈，潇洒洒脱，没有“钱的味道”，不摆架子；她甚至在圣卢一直保持的无能状态中发现了这种自然的魅力，尽管通常它已经随着童年的发展而消失了，同时也由于那个时期的某些生理特征，使他的脸无法立即反映每一种情绪。 例如，他想要但没有预料到的某种东西，哪怕只是一种恭维，也会在他内心产生一阵快感，如此迅速、如此燃烧、如此不稳定、如此广阔，以至于他无法控制。并隐藏它；他的脸上不可抗拒地露出了喜悦的笑容。他脸颊的皮肤过于娇嫩，透出生动的光芒，眼睛里闪烁着困惑和喜悦的光芒。我的祖母被这种迷人的纯真和坦率所感动，顺便说一句，在圣卢身上——至少在我们第一次友谊的时期——并没有误导人。但我认识另一个人，而且有很多这样的人，在他们身上，短暂的脸红在生理上的真诚决不排除道德上的口是心非；通常，它证明的不过是感受到快乐的活泼程度——因此，这使他们解除了武装，被迫公开承认这一点——他们的本性可能会做出最卑鄙的背叛。不过，我祖母真正欣赏圣卢的自然之处在于，他毫不掩饰地承认了他对我的感情，他用语言来表达他对我的感情，她告诉我，她自己想不出任何表达方式。 “塞维涅和博瑟让”可能会用这些更恰当、更真挚的爱来表达自己的签名。他并不害怕取笑我的弱点——他敏锐地察觉到了这一点，这让她微笑起来——但就像她自己会做的那样，充满爱意地，同时以一种温暖、一种冲动的自由来赞扬我的优良品质，这表明我的优点。没有任何矜持和冷漠的迹象，而他这个年纪的年轻人很容易认为自己很重视这种冷漠。 他表现出预防一切不适，无论多么轻微，在我没有注意到的情况下，如果天气变冷，他会盖住我的腿，如果他认为我情绪低落或感到沮丧，他会安排（没有告诉我）晚上陪我。我的祖母发现，从我的健康角度来看，这种警惕性几乎是过度的，尽管作为他对我的爱的证明，她对此深感感动。

It was promptly settled between us that he and I were to be great friends for ever, and he would say ‘our friendship’ as though he were speaking of some important and delightful thing which had an existence independent of ourselves, and which he soon called—not counting his love for his mistress—the great joy of his life. These words made me rather uncomfortable and I was at a loss for an answer, for I did not feel when I was with him and talked to him—and no doubt it would have been the same with everyone else—any of that happiness which it was, on the other hand, possible for me to experience when I was by myself. For alone, at times, I felt surging from the depths of my being one or other of those impressions which gave me a delicious sense of comfort. But as soon as I was with some one else, when I began to talk to a friend, my mind at once ‘turned about,’ it was towards the listener and not myself that it directed its thoughts, and when they followed this outward course they brought me no pleasure. Once I had left Saint-Loup, I managed, with the help of words, to put more or less in order the confused minutes that I had spent with him; I told myself that I had a good friend, that a good friend was a rare thing, and I tasted, when I felt myself surrounded by ‘goods’ that were difficult to acquire, what was precisely the opposite of the pleasure that was natural to me, the opposite of the pleasure of having extracted from myself and brought to light something that was hidden in my inner darkness. If I had spent two or three hours in conversation with Saint-Loup, and he had expressed his admiration of what I had said to him, I felt a sort of remorse, or regret, or weariness at not having been left alone and ready, at last, to begin my work. But I told myself that one is not given intelligence for one’s own benefit only, that the greatest of men have longed for appreciation, that I could not regard as wasted hours in which I had built up an exalted idea of myself in the mind of my friend; I had no difficulty in persuading myself that I ought to be happy in consequence, and I hoped all the more anxiously that this happiness might never be taken from me simply because I had not yet been conscious of it. We fear more than the loss of everything else the disappearance of the ‘goods’ that have remained beyond our reach, because our heart has not taken possession of them. I felt that I was capable of exemplifying the virtues of friendship better than most people (because I should always place the good of my friends before those personal interests to which other people were devoted but which did not count for me), but not of finding happiness in a feeling which, instead of multiplying the differences that there were between my nature and those of other people—as there are among all of us—would cancel them. At the same time my mind was distinguishing in Saint-Loup a personality more collective than his own, that of the ‘noble’; which like an indwelling spirit moved his limbs, ordered his gestures and his actions; then, at such moments, although in his company, I was as much alone as I should have been gazing at a landscape the harmony of which I could understand. He was no more then than an object the properties of which, in my musing contemplations, I sought to explore. The perpetual discovery in him of this pre-existent, this aeonial creature, this aristocrat who was just what Robert aspired not to be, gave me a keen delight, but one that was intellectual and not social. In the moral and physical agility which gave so much grace to his kindnesses, in the ease with which he offered my grandmother his carriage and made her get into it, in the alacrity with which he sprang from the box, when he was afraid that I might be cold, to spread his own cloak over my shoulders, I felt not only the inherited litheness of the mighty hunters who had been for generations the ancestors of this young man who made no pretence save to intellectuality, their scorn of wealth which, subsisting in him side by side with his enjoyment of it simply because it enabled him to entertain his friends more lavishly, made him so carelessly shower his riches at their feet; I felt in him especially the certainty or the illusion in the minds of those great lords of being ‘better than other people,’ thanks to which they had not been able to hand down to Saint-Loup that anxiety to shew that one is ‘just as good that dread of seeming inferior, of which he was indeed wholly unconscious, but which mars with so much ugliness, so much awkwardness, the most sincere overtures of a plebeian. Sometimes I found fault with myself for thus taking pleasure in my friend as in a work of art, that is to say in regarding the play of all the parts of his being as harmoniously ordered by a general idea from which they depended but which he did not know, so that it added nothing to his own good qualities, to that personal value, intellectual and moral, to which he attached so high a price.
我们之间很快就达成共识，他和我将成为永远的好朋友，他会说“我们的友谊”，就好像他在谈论一些重要而令人愉快的事情，它独立于我们而存在，很快他就将其称为“我们的友谊”。 ——不算他对情妇的爱——这是他一生中最大的快乐。这些话让我感到很不舒服，我不知道如何回答，因为当我和他在一起并与他交谈时，我没有感觉到——毫无疑问，与其他人一样——任何幸福。另一方面，当我独自一人时，这是可能的。有时，当我独自一人时，我会感到一种或另一种印象从我的存在深处涌动，给我一种美妙的舒适感。但是，当我和别人在一起时，当我开始与朋友交谈时，我的思想立即“转向”，它的思想转向了听者，而不是我自己，当他们遵循这种外向的路线时他们没有给我带来任何快乐。离开圣卢后，我设法借助语言，或多或少地整理了我和他一起度过的混乱的几分钟；我告诉自己，我有一个好朋友，好朋友是一种难得的东西，当我感觉自己被难以获得的“物品”包围时，我尝到了与自然的快乐恰恰相反的感觉。我，与从我自己中提取并揭示隐藏在我内心黑暗中的某些东西的快乐相反。如果我花了两三个小时与圣卢交谈，而他对我对他所说的话表示钦佩，我就会因没有独自一人做好准备而感到某种悔恨、遗憾或疲倦，终于，开始我的工作了。 但我告诉自己，一个人被给予智力不仅仅是为了自己的利益，最伟大的人都渴望得到赞赏，我不能认为我在自己的头脑中建立了崇高的自我观念是浪费时间。朋友；我毫不费力地说服自己，我应该因此而感到幸福，而且我更加焦急地希望这种幸福永远不会因为我还没有意识到而被夺走。我们比失去其他一切更担心的是那些我们无法触及的“物品”的消失，因为我们的心还没有占有它们。我觉得我能够比大多数人更好地体现友谊的美德（因为我应该始终将朋友的利益置于其他人致力于但对我来说不重要的个人利益之上），但无法找到幸福感在于一种感觉，这种感觉不会增加我与其他人之间的差异（就像我们所有人之间一样），而是会消除它们。与此同时，我的头脑在圣卢身上发现了一种比他自己更具集体性的人格，即“贵族”的人格。它就像一个内在的灵魂移动他的四肢，命令他的手势和行动；然后，在这样的时刻，尽管有他在身边，我却独自一人，凝视着我能理解的和谐风景。那时他只不过是一个物体，在我的沉思中，我试图探索其属性。在他身上不断地发现这种预先存在的、这种永恒的生物、这种贵族，而罗伯特却渴望成为这样的人，这给了我一种强烈的喜悦，但这种喜悦是理智的，而不是社交的。 他道德上和身体上的敏捷性使他的善良变得如此仁慈，他轻松地为我祖母提供了马车并让她上了车，当他担心我时，他从箱子里跳出来，敏捷地跳了出来。也许会冷，把他自己的斗篷披在我的肩上，我不仅感受到了强大的猎人继承的轻盈，他们是这个年轻人的祖先，他们几代人都是这个年轻人的祖先，他们除了理智之外不做任何伪装，他们对财富的蔑视，他与他的享受并存，只是因为这使他能够更加奢侈地招待他的朋友，使他如此不经意地将他的财富洒在他们的脚下；我在他身上尤其感受到了那些大领主心中“比其他人更好”的确定性或幻想，因此他们无法将那种渴望表明一个人“只是”的焦虑传递给圣卢。害怕显得低人一等，这也是好事，他确实完全没有意识到这一点，但这种恐惧却以如此多的丑陋、如此多的尴尬，玷污了一个平民最真诚的姿态。有时我会责怪自己，因为我把我的朋友当作欣赏一件艺术品来欣赏，也就是说，我认为他的所有部分的发挥都是由一个总体观念和谐地安排的，他们依赖于这个总体观念，但他却做到了这一点他不知道，所以这对他自己的良好品质、对他所付出的高昂代价的个人价值、知识和道德没有任何帮助。

And yet that idea was to a certain extent their determining cause. It was because he was a gentleman that that mental activity, those socialist aspirations, which made him seek the company of young students, arrogant and ill-dressed, connoted in him something really pure and disinterested which was not to be found in them. Looking upon himself as the heir of an ignorant and selfish caste, he was sincerely anxious that they should forgive in him that aristocratic origin which they, on the contrary, found irresistibly attractive and on account of which they sought to know him, though with a show of coldness and indeed of insolence towards him. He was thus led to make advances to people from whom my parents, faithful to the sociological theories of Combray, would have been stupefied at his not turning away in disgust. One day when we were sitting on the sands, Saint-Loup and I, we heard issuing from a canvas tent against which we were leaning a torrent of imprecation against the swarm of Israelites that infested Balbec. ‘You can’t go a yard without meeting them,’ said the voice. ‘I am not in principle irremediably hostile to the Jewish nation, but here there is a plethora of them. You hear nothing but, ‘I thay, Apraham, I’ve chust theen Chacop.’ You would think you were in the Rue d’Abou-kir.’ The man who thus inveighed against Israel emerged at last from the tent; we raised our eyes to behold this anti-Semite. It was my old friend Bloch. Saint-Loup at once begged me to remind him that they had met before the Board of Examiners, when Bloch had carried off the prize of honour, and since then at a popular university course.
然而，这个想法在某种程度上是他们的决定性原因。正因为他是一位绅士，那种精神活动，那些社会主义抱负，使他寻求与傲慢且衣着邋遢的年轻学生为伴，在他身上蕴含着一种在他们身上找不到的真正纯洁和无私的东西。他认为自己是一个无知而自私的阶层的继承人，他真诚地渴望他们能够原谅他的贵族出身，相反，他们发现这种出身具有不可抗拒的吸引力，因此他们试图了解他，尽管他们对他抱有一种偏见。对他表现出冷漠甚至无礼。因此，他被引导去向那些人求爱，而我的父母，忠实于贡布雷的社会学理论，如果他没有厌恶地转身离​​开，他们一定会感到惊讶。有一天，当我和圣卢坐在沙滩上时，我们靠在帐篷里，听到从帐篷里传来一阵咒骂声，反对涌入巴尔贝克的以色列人。 “你走一码都不会遇到他们，”那个声音说道。 “原则上我并不是对犹太民族抱有不可挽回的敌意，但这里有太多的犹太民族。你什么也听不到，除了“我说，亚伯拉罕，我已经打败了查科普。”你会以为你在阿布基尔大街。”如此猛烈抨击以色列的人终于从帐篷里出来了；我们抬起眼睛，看到了这个反犹太分子。这是我的老朋友布洛赫。圣卢立即恳求我提醒他，当布洛赫获得荣誉奖时，他们曾在考试委员会见过面，从那时起，他们就在一门受欢迎的大学课程中见过面。

At the most I may have smiled now and then, to discover in Robert the marks of his Jesuit schooling, in the awkwardness which the fear of hurting people’s feelings at once created in him whenever one of his intellectual friends made a social error, did something silly to which Saint-Loup himself attached no importance but felt that the other would have blushed if anybody had noticed it. And it was Robert who used to blush as though it had been he that was to blame, for instance on the day when Bloch, after promising to come and see him at the hotel, went on:
最多时，我可能会微笑一下，在罗伯特身上发现他受过耶稣会教育的痕迹，每当他的一位知识分子朋友犯了一个社会错误时，他就会因为害怕伤害别人的感情而感到尴尬。圣卢本人对此并不在意，但觉得如果有人注意到的话，对方一定会脸红。罗伯特常常脸红，好像是他该受责备，例如那天，布洛赫答应去旅馆看他，然后继续说道：

‘As I cannot endure to be kept waiting among all the false splendour of these great caravanserais, and the Hungarian band would make me ill, you must tell the ‘lighft-boy’ to make them shut up, and to let you know at once.’
“我无法忍受在这些伟大的商队旅馆的虚假辉煌中等待，而匈牙利乐队会让我生病，你必须告诉‘灯童’让他们闭嘴，并立即通知你.'

Personally, I was not particularly anxious that Bloch should come to the hotel. He was at Balbec not by himself, unfortunately, but with his sisters, and they in turn had innumerable relatives and friends staying there. Now this Jewish colony was more picturesque than pleasant. Balbec was in this respect like such countries as Russia or Rumania, where the geography books teach us that the Israelite population does not enjoy anything approaching the same esteem and has not reached the same stage of assimilation as, for instance, in Paris. Always together, with no blend of any other element, when the cousins and uncles of Bloch or their coreligionists male or female repaired to the Casino, the ladies to dance, the gentlemen branching off towards the baccarat-tables, they formed a solid troop, homogeneous within itself, and utterly dissimilar to the people who watched them go past and found them there again every year without ever exchanging a word or a sign with them, whether these were on the Cambremers’ list, or the presiding magistrate’s little group, professional or ‘business’ people, or even simple corn-chandlers from Paris, whose daughters, handsome, proud, derisive and French as the statues at Rheims, would not care to mix with that horde of ill-bred tomboys, who carried their zeal for ‘seaside fashions’ so far as to be always apparently on their way home from shrimping or out to dance the tango. As for the men, despite the brilliance of their dinner-jackets and patent-leather shoes, the exaggeration of their type made one think of what people call the ‘intelligent research’ of painters who, having to illustrate the Gospels or the Arabian Nights, consider the country in which the scenes are laid, and give to Saint Peter or to Ali-Baba the identical features of the heaviest ‘punter’ at the Balbec tables. Bloch introduced his sisters, who, though he silenced their chatter with the utmost rudeness, screamed with laughter at the mildest sallies of this brother, their blindly worshipped idol. So that it is probable that this set of people contained, like every other, perhaps more than any other, plenty of attractions, merits and virtues. But in order to experience these, one had first to penetrate its enclosure. Now it was not popular; it could feel this; it saw in its unpopularity the mark of an anti-semitism to which it presented a bold front in a compact and closed phalanx into which, as it happened, no one ever dreamed of trying to make his way.
就我个人而言，我并不特别担心布洛赫应该来酒店。不幸的是，他不是一个人在巴尔贝克，而是和他的姐妹们在一起，而她们又有无数的亲戚和朋友住在那里。现在，这个犹太殖民地风景如画，而不是令人愉悦。在这方面，巴尔贝克就像俄罗斯或罗马尼亚这样的国家，这些国家的地理书籍告诉我们，以色列人没有享受到任何接近同样的尊重，也没有达到像巴黎那样的同化阶段。总是在一起，没有任何其他元素的混合，当布洛赫的表兄弟和叔叔或他们的共同宗教徒男性或女性前往赌场时，女士们跳舞，先生们走向百家乐赌桌，他们形成了一支坚实的队伍，其本身是同质的，与那些每年看着他们经过并再次发现他们而没有与他们交换过一句话或一个手势的人完全不同，无论这些人是在康布雷默的名单上，还是在首席治安官的小团体上，专业人士或“商人”，甚至是来自巴黎的简单的玉米商贩，他们的女儿们像兰斯的雕像一样英俊、骄傲、爱嘲讽、法国人，不愿意与那群没有教养的假小子混在一起，他们带着他们的热情“海边时尚”显然总是在捕虾回家或出去跳探戈的路上。 至于男人们，尽管他们的晚礼服和漆皮鞋光鲜亮丽，但他们夸张的造型让人想起人们所谓的画家的“聪明研究”，他们必须为《福音书》或《天方夜谭》绘制插图，考虑一下场景所在的国家，并赋予圣彼得或阿里巴巴与巴尔贝克赌桌上最重的“赌徒”相同的特征。布洛赫介绍了他的姐妹们，虽然他极其粗鲁地压制了她们的闲聊，但她们却因这位兄弟——她们盲目崇拜的偶像——的最温和的俏皮话而大笑起来。因此，这群人很可能像其他人一样，甚至比其他任何人都拥有更多的吸引力、优点和美德。但为了体验这些，人们必须首先穿透它的外壳。现在它不流行了；它能感觉到这一点；它在不受欢迎的情况下看到了反犹太主义的标志，它在一个紧凑而封闭的方阵中展现了大胆的前线，而碰巧的是，没有人梦想试图进入其中。

At his use of the word ‘lighft’ I had all the less reason to be surprised in that, a few days before, Bloch having asked me why I had come to Balbec (although it seemed to him perfectly natural that he himself should be there) and whether it had been ‘in the hope of making grand friends,’ when I had explained to him that this visit was a fulfilment of one of my earliest longings, though one not so deep as my longing to see Venice, he had replied: ‘Yes, of course, to sip iced drinks with the pretty ladies, while you pretend to be reading the Stones of Venighce, by Lord John Ruskin, a dreary shaver, in fact one of the most garrulous old barbers that you could find.’ So that Bloch evidently thought that in England not only were all the inhabitants of the male sex called ‘Lord,’ but the letter ‘i’ was invariably pronounced ‘igh.’ As for Saint-Loup, this mistake in pronunciation seemed to him all the less serious inasmuch as he saw in it pre-eminently a want of those almost ‘society’ notions which my new friend despised as fully as he was versed in them. But the fear lest Bloch, discovering one day that one says ‘Venice’ and that Ruskin was not a lord, should retrospectively imagine that Robert had been laughing at him, made the latter feel as guilty as if he had been found wanting in the indulgence with which, as we have seen, he overflowed, so that the blush which would no doubt one day dye the cheek of Bloch on the discovery of his error, Robert already, by anticipation and reflex action, could feel mounting to his own. For he fully believed that Bloch attached more importance than he to this mistake. Which Bloch proved to be true some time later, when he heard me pronounce the word ‘lift,’ by breaking in with:
对于他使用“光”这个词，我完全没有理由感到惊讶，因为几天前，布洛赫问我为什么来到巴尔贝克（尽管在他看来，他本人应该在那里是很自然的） ）以及是否“希望结交伟大的朋友”，当我向他解释这次访问是实现我最早的渴望之一时，尽管这个渴望没有我去威尼斯的渴望那么深，他回答道：“是的，当然，与漂亮女士一起喝冰镇饮料，同时假装正在阅读约翰·罗斯金勋爵所著的《威尼斯之石》，他是一位沉闷的剃须刀，实际上是你能找到的最饶舌的老理发师之一。 ” 因此，布洛赫显然认为，在英国，不仅所有男性居民都被称为“主”，而且字母“i”总是被发音为“igh”。至于圣卢，他认为这种发音错误一切都不那么严重，因为他认为其中明显缺乏那些几乎是“社会”的概念，而我的新朋友却非常鄙视这些概念，尽管他非常熟悉这些概念。但是，担心布洛赫有一天发现有人说“威尼斯”而拉斯金不是一位领主，他会回想起来罗伯特一直在嘲笑他，这让后者感到内疚，就好像他被发现在放纵中有所欠缺一样。正如我们所看到的，他的脸上溢满了这种红晕，以至于有一天，布洛赫发现自己的错误时，他的脸颊无疑会染上红晕，而罗伯特已经通过预期和反射行动，感觉到自己的脸红了。因为他完全相信布洛赫比他更重视这个错误。一段时间后，布洛赫听到我说出“lift”这个词，他插话道：

‘Oh, you say ‘lift,’ do you?’ And then, in a dry and lofty tone: ‘Not that it is of the slightest importance.’ A phrase that is like a reflex action of the body, the same in all men whose self-esteem is great, in the gravest circumstances as well as in the most trivial, betraying there as clearly as on this occasion how important the thing in question seems to him who declares that it is of no importance; a tragic phrase at times, the first to escape (and then how heart-breaking) the lips of every man at all proud from whom we have just taken the last hope to which he still clung by refusing to do him a service. ‘Oh, well, it’s not of the slightest importance; I shall make some other arrangement:’ the other arrangement which it is not of the slightest importance that he should be driven to adopt being often suicide.
“哦，你说‘抬起’，是吗？”然后，用干巴巴、高亢的语气说：“这并不是最重要的。”这句话就像身体的反射动作，在所有情况下都是一样的。那些自尊心很强的人，无论在最严重的情况下还是在最微不足道的情况下，都清楚地暴露出所讨论的事情对于那些宣称它不重要的人来说是多么重要；有时这是一个悲剧性的短语，第一个从每一个自豪的人的嘴唇上逃脱（然后是多么令人心碎），我们刚刚从他们那里夺走了最后的希望，而他仍然拒绝为他提供服务而仍然坚持着。 “哦，好吧，这根本不重要；重要的是。”我将做出其他安排：”他被迫采取的另一种安排并不重要，通常是自杀。

Apart from this, Bloch made me the prettiest speeches. He was certainly anxious to be on the best of terms with me. And yet he asked me: ‘Is it because you’ve taken a fancy to raise yourself to the peerage that you run after de Saint-Loup-en-Bray? You must be going through a fine crisis of snobbery. Tell me, are you a snob? I think so, what?’ Not that his desire to be friendly had suddenly changed. But what is called, in not too correct language, ‘ill breeding’ was his defect, and therefore the defect which he was bound to overlook, all the more that by which he did not believe that other people could be shocked. In the human race the frequency of the virtues that are identical in us all is not more wonderful than the multiplicity of the defects that are peculiar to each one of us. Undoubtedly, it is not common sense that is ‘the commonest thing in the world”; but human kindness. In the most distant, the most desolate ends of the earth, we marvel to see it blossom of its own accord, as in a remote valley a poppy like the poppies in the world beyond, poppies which it has never seen as it has never known aught but the wind that, now and again, stirring the folds of its scarlet cloak, disturbs its solitude. Even if this human kindness, paralysed by self-interest, is not exercised, it exists none the less, and whenever any inconstant egoist does not restrain its action, when, for example, he is reading a novel or a newspaper, it will bud, blossom, grow, even in the heart of him who, cold-blooded in real life, has retained a tender heart, as a lover of fiction, for the weak, the righteous and the persecuted. But the variety of our defects is no less remarkable than the similarity of our virtues. Each of us has his own, so much so that to continue loving him we are obliged not to take them into account but to ignore them and look only to the rest of his character. The most perfect person in the world has a certain defect which shocks us or makes us angry. One man is of rare intelligence, sees everything from an exalted angle, never speaks evil of anyone, but will pocket and forget letters of supreme importance which it was he himself who asked you to let him post for you, and will then miss a vital engagement without offering you any excuse, with a smile, because he prides himself upon never knowing the time. Another is so refined, so gentle, so delicate in his conduct that he never says anything about you before your face except what you are glad to hear; but you feel that he refrains from uttering, that he keeps buried in his heart, where they grow bitter, very different opinions, and the pleasure that he derives from seeing you is so dear to him that he will let you faint with exhaustion sooner than leave you to yourself. A third has more sincerity, but carries it so far that he feels bound to let you know, when you have pleaded the state of your health as an excuse for not having been to see him, that you were seen going to the theatre and were reported to be looking well, or else that he has not been able to profit entirely by the action which you have taken on his behalf, which, by the way, three other of his friends had already offered to take, so that he is only moderately indebted to you. In similar circumstances the previous friend would have pretended not to know that you had gone to the theatre, or that other people could have done him the same service. But this last friend feels himself obliged to repeat or to reveal to somebody the very thing that is most likely to give offence; is delighted with his own frankness and tells you, emphatically: ‘I am like that.’ While others infuriate you by their exaggerated curiosity, or by a want of curiosity so absolute that you can speak to them of the most sensational happenings without their grasping what it is all about; and others again take months to answer you if your letter has been about something that concerns yourself and not them, or else, if they write that they are coming to ask you for something and you dare not leave the house for fear of missing them, do not appear, but leave you in suspense for weeks because, not having received from you the answer which their letter did not in the least ‘expect,’ they have concluded that you must be cross with them. And others, considering their own wishes and not yours, talk to you without letting you get a word in if they are in good spirits and want to see you, however urgent the work you may have in hand, but if they feel exhausted by the weather or out of humour, you cannot get a word out of them, they meet your efforts with an inert languor and no more take the trouble to reply, even in monosyllables, to what you say to them than if they had not heard you. Each of our friends has his defects so markedly that to continue to love him we are obliged to seek consolation for those defects—in the thought of his talent, his goodness, his affection for ourself—or rather to leave them out of account, and for that we need to display all our good will. Unfortunately our obliging obstinacy in refusing to see the defect in our friend is surpassed by the obstinacy with which he persists in that defect, from his own blindness to it or the blindness that he attributes to other people. For he does not notice it himself, or imagines that it is not noticed. Since the risk of giving offence arises principally from the difficulty of appreciating what does and what does not pass unperceived, we ought, at least, from prudence, never to speak of ourselves, because that is a subject on which we may be sure that other people’s views are never in accordance with our own. If we find as many surprises as on visiting a house of plain exterior which inside is full of hidden treasures, torture-chambers, skeletons, when we discover the true lives of other people, the real beneath the apparent universe, we are no less surprised if, in place of the image that we have made of ourself with the help of all the things that people have said to us, we learn from the terms in which they speak of us in our absence what an entirely different image they have been carrying in their own minds of us and of our life. So that whenever we have spoken about ourselves, we may be sure that our inoffensive and prudent words, listened to with apparent politeness and hypocritical approbation, have given rise afterwards to the most exasperated or the most mirthful, but in either case the least favourable, criticism. The least risk that we run is that of irritating people by the disproportion that there is between our idea of ourselves and the words that we use, a disproportion which as a rule makes people’s talk about themselves as ludicrous as the performances of those self-styled music-lovers who when they feel the need to hum a favourite melody compensate for the inadequacy of their inarticulate murmurings by a strenuous mimicry and a look of admiration which is hardly justified by all that they let us hear. And to the bad habit of speaking about oneself and one’s defects there must be added, as part of the same thing, that habit of denouncing in other people defects precisely analogous to one’s own. For it is always of those defects that people speak, as though it were a way of speaking about oneself, indirectly, which added to the pleasure of absolution that of confession. Besides it seems that our attention, always attracted by what is characteristic of ourselves, notices that more than anything else in other people. One short-sighted man says of another: ‘But he can scarcely open his eyes!’; a consumptive has his doubts as to the pulmonary integrity of the most robust; an unwashed man speaks only of the baths that other people do not take; an evil-smelling man insists that other people smell; a cuckold sees cuckolds everywhere, a light woman light women, a snob snobs. Then, too, every vice, like every profession, requires and trains a special knowledge which we are never loath to display. The invert detects and denounces inverts; the tailor asked out to dine, before he has begun to talk to you, has passed judgment on the cloth of your coat, which his fingers are itching to feel, and if after a few words of conversation you were to ask a dentist what he really thought of you, he would tell you how many of your teeth wanted filling. To him nothing appears more important, nor more absurd to you who have noticed his own. And it is not only when we speak of ourselves that we imagine other people to be blind; we behave as though they were. On every one of us there is a special god in attendance who hides from him or promises him the concealment from other people of his defect, just as he stops the eyes and nostrils of people who do not wash to the streaks of dirt which they carry in their ears and the smell of sweat which emanates from their armpits, and assures them that they can with impunity carry both of these about a world that will notice nothing. And those who wear artificial pearls, or give them as presents, imagine that people will take them to be genuine. Bloch was ill-bred, neurotic, a snob, and, since he belonged to a family of little repute, had to support, as on the floor of ocean, the incalculable pressure that was imposed on him not only by the Christians upon the surface but by all the intervening layers of Jewish castes superior to his own, each of them crushing with its contempt the one that was immediately beneath it. To carve his way through to the open air by raising himself from Jewish family to Jewish family would have taken Bloch many thousands of years. It was better worth his while to seek an outlet in another direction.
除此之外，布洛赫还给我做了最精彩的演讲。他当然渴望与我保持良好的关系。但他却问我：“你追随德圣卢昂布雷，是因为你想提升自己的爵位吗？”你一定正在经历一场势利的危机。告诉我，你是势利小人吗？我想是的，什么？”并不是说他友善的愿望突然改变了。但用不太正确的语言来说，所谓的“不良教养”就是他的缺陷，因此他必然会忽视这个缺陷，更何况他不相信其他人会因此感到震惊。在人类中，我们所有人身上相同的美德的频率并不比我们每个人特有的缺陷的多样性更令人惊奇。毫无疑问，“世界上最平常的事情”并不是常识，而是常识。但人性的善良。在地球最遥远、最荒凉的地方，我们惊奇地看到它自己绽放，就像在偏僻的山谷里开出一朵罂粟花，就像外面世界的罂粟花一样，它从未见过、也从未见过的罂粟花。除了风，时不时地吹动它猩红色斗篷的褶皱，扰乱了它的孤独。即使这种因自利而麻痹的人类善良没有得到运用，它仍然存在，每当任何反复无常的利己主义者不限制其行为时，例如，当他在读小说或报纸时，它就会萌芽。 ，绽放，成长，甚至在现实生活中冷血的他心中，作为小说爱好者，为弱者、正义者和受迫害者保留着一颗温柔的心。但我们缺陷的多样性与我们美德的相似性一样引人注目。 我们每个人都有自己的特点，以至于为了继续爱他，我们不得不不去考虑它们，而是忽略它们，只关注他性格的其他部分。世界上最完美的人都有一定的缺陷，让我们震惊或愤怒。一个人具有罕见的智慧，从崇高的角度看待一切，从不说任何人的坏话，但他会把最重要的信件装进口袋并忘记，这些信件是他亲自要求你让他为你邮寄的，然后就会错过一个重要的信息订婚时不会给你任何借口，面带微笑，因为他为自己从不知道时间而感到自豪。另一个人的举止是那么优雅、那么温柔、那么细腻，除了你高兴听的以外，他从不在你面前说任何关于你的事情。但你觉得他不肯说出来，他把不同的意见埋藏在心里，让他们变得痛苦，而他从见到你时得到的快乐对他来说是如此珍贵，以至于他很快就会让你精疲力竭地晕倒。让你自己去吧。第三个人则更真诚，但他的态度太过分了，当你以自己的健康状况为借口没有去见他时，他觉得有必要让你知道，有人看到你去剧院，并且被人看见了。据报道，他看起来很好，或者说他并不能完全从你代表他采取的行动中获益，顺便说一句，他的另外三个朋友已经提出要采取行动，所以他只是对你有一定的亏欠。在类似的情况下，以前的朋友会假装不知道你去了剧院，或者其他人可以为他提供同样的服务。 但最后一位朋友觉得自己有必要向某人重复或透露最有可能冒犯的事情；他对自己的坦率感到高兴，并强调地告诉你：“我就是这样。”而其他人却因为他们过分的好奇心而激怒了你，或者因为缺乏好奇心而让你可以在他们不理解的情况下与他们谈论最轰动的事件这是关于什么的？如果你的信是关于你自己而不是他们的事情，或者如果他们写信说他们要来向你要东西而你不敢离开家因为害怕错过他们，其他人又需要几个月的时间才能回复你，不要出现，而是让你在数周内保持悬念，因为在没有收到你的信中完全没有“预期”的答复后，他们得出结论，你一定对他们生气了。而其他人，考虑到他们自己的意愿而不是你的意愿，如果他们心情良好并且想见你，无论你手头的工作有多紧急，但如果他们感到精疲力竭，他们就会与你交谈，而不让你插话。天气或出于幽默，你无法从他们那里得到一个字，他们以一种惰性的倦怠来回应你的努力，并且不会比他们没有听到你说话时更不厌其烦地回答你对他们说的话，即使是单音节的。我们的每个朋友都有他明显的缺陷，为了继续爱他，我们不得不为这些缺陷寻求安慰——想到他的才华、他的善良、他对我们自己的感情——或者更确切地说，把它们排除在外，并且为此，我们需要表现出我们所有的善意。 不幸的是，我们固执地拒绝看到我们朋友的缺点，但他却顽固地坚持这种缺点，因为他自己对此视而不见，或者他将其归因于其他人的盲目。因为他自己没有注意到它，或者想象它没有被注意到。由于冒犯他人的风险主要是由于难以理解什么是不被察觉的，什么是不被察觉的，所以我们至少应该谨慎起见，永远不要谈论我们自己，因为在这个问题上我们可以确信其他人不会谈论我们自己。人们的观点永远不会与我们自己的观点一致。如果我们发现的惊喜就像参观一座外表朴素的房子，里面却充满了隐藏的宝藏、酷刑室、骷髅一样多，那么当我们发现其他人的真实生活、表面宇宙之下的真实时，我们也会感到同样的惊讶如果我们不再借助人们对我们所说的一切来塑造自己的形象，而是从他们在我们不在场时谈论我们的用语中了解到他们所携带的完全不同的形象他们对我们和我们生活的看法。因此，每当我们谈论自己时，我们都可以确信，我们的无害和谨慎的话语，带着明显的礼貌和虚伪的认可来倾听，随后会引起最恼怒或最高兴的人，但无论哪种情况都是最不受欢迎的，批评。 我们面临的最小风险是，我们对自己的看法与我们使用的词语之间存在不成比例，从而激怒人们，这种不成比例通常会使人们对自己的谈论与那些自封的人的表现一样可笑。音乐爱好者，当他们觉得需要哼出一首最喜欢的旋律时，他们会通过努力的模仿和钦佩的眼神来弥补他们口齿不清的低语的不足，而他们让我们听到的一切都很难证明这是合理的。除了谈论自己和自己的缺点的坏习惯之外，还必须加上谴责别人与自己的缺点完全相同的缺点的习惯，这也是同一件事的一部分。因为人们谈论的总是这些缺陷，就好像这是一种间接谈论自己的方式，这增加了忏悔的乐趣。此外，我们的注意力似乎总是被自己的特征所吸引，更容易注意到别人的特征。一位近视人士谈到另一位近视人士时说：“但他几乎睁不开眼睛！”；肺痨患者对最强壮的人的肺的完整性表示怀疑；不洗澡的人只谈论别人不洗的澡；一个有恶臭的人坚持认为其他人有臭味；戴绿帽子的人到处都是戴绿帽子的人，轻女人轻女人，势利小人。而且，每一种恶习，就像每一种职业一样，都需要并训练我们从不不愿意展示的特殊知识。 性格内向者发现并谴责性格内向者；裁缝请你出去吃饭，在他开始和你说话之前，已经对你外套的布料做出了判断，他的手指很想摸摸，如果在交谈了几句话之后，你问牙医他想要什么真心为你着想，他会告诉你你有多少颗牙齿需要补牙。对他来说，没有什么比这更重要的了，而对于那些注意到他的人来说，也没有什么比这更荒谬的了。不仅当我们谈论自己时，我们会想象其他人是盲目的；同样，当我们谈论自己时，我们也会想象其他人是盲目的。我们的行为就像他们一样。我们每个人身上都有一位特殊的神在侍候，他向他隐瞒或向他许诺向其他人隐瞒他的缺陷，就像他堵住那些不洗去身上沾有污垢的人的眼睛和鼻孔一样。耳边传来的气味和腋下散发出的汗臭味，让他们确信，在这个世界上，他们可以带着这两种东西而不受惩罚，而不会注意到任何事情。那些佩戴人造珍珠或将其作为礼物赠送的人想象人们会认为它们是真的。布洛赫没有教养，神经质，势利，而且由于他出身于一个名不见经传的家庭，他不得不承受巨大的压力，就像在海底一样，这些压力不仅来自水面上的基督徒，也给他带来了巨大的压力。但是，由于犹太种姓的所有阶层都高于他自己，他们中的每一个阶层都用自己的蔑视压垮了紧邻其下的阶层。布洛赫要从一个犹太家庭成长到另一个犹太家庭，从而开辟出一条走向开放的道路，需要花费数千年的时间。更值得他花时间去寻找另一个方向的出路。

When Bloch spoke to me of the crisis of snobbery through which I must be passing, and bade me confess that I was a snob, I might well have replied: ‘If I were, I should not be going about with you.’ I said merely that he was not being very polite. Then he tried to apologise, but in the way that is typical of the ill-bred man who is only too glad to hark back to whatever it was if he can find an opportunity to aggravate his offence. ‘Forgive me,’ he used now to plead, whenever we met, ‘I have vexed you, tormented you; I have been wantonly mischievous. And yet—man in general and your friend in particular is so singular an animal—you cannot imagine the affection that I, I who tease you so cruelly, have for you. It carries me often, when I think of you, to tears.’ And he gave an audible sob.
当布洛赫向我谈到我必须经历的势利危机，并让我承认我是一个势利小人时，我很可能会回答：“如果我是，我就不应该和你在一起。”我说只是他不太有礼貌。然后他试图道歉，但以典型的没有教养的人的方式道歉，如果他能找到机会加重他的冒犯，他就会很高兴地回想起无论发生了什么。 “请原谅我，”每当我们见面时，他都会恳求道，“我让你烦恼，折磨你；我让你烦恼，让你痛苦。”我曾肆意恶作剧。然而，人类，尤其是你的朋友，是一种如此独特的动物，你无法想象我，我这个如此残酷地戏弄你的人，对你的感情。当我想起你时，我常常会流泪。”他发出一声可听见的抽泣。

What astonished me more in Bloch than his bad manners was to find how the quality of his conversation varied. This youth, so hard to please that of authors who were at the height of their fame he would say: ‘He’s a gloomy idiot; he’s a sheer imbecile,’ would every now and then tell, with immense gusto, stories that were simply not funny or would instance as a ‘really remarkable person’ some man who was completely insignificant. This double scale of measuring the wit, the worth, the interest of people continued to puzzle me until I was introduced to M. Bloch, senior.
布洛赫比他的粗鲁举止更让我惊讶的是，我发现他谈话的质量是如何变化的。这个年轻人，很难取悦自己成名的作者，他会说：‘他是一个阴郁的白痴； “他是个彻头彻尾的低能儿”，他时不时地兴致勃勃地讲述一些根本不好笑的故事，或者将一些完全微不足道的人描述为一个“非常了不起的人”。这种衡量人们智慧、价值和兴趣的双重标准一直困扰着我，直到我被介绍给了大四学生布洛赫先生。

I had not supposed that we should ever be allowed to know him, for Bloch junior had spoken ill of me to Saint-Loup and of Saint-Loup to me. In particular, he had said to Robert that I was (always) a frightful snob. ‘Yes, really, he is overjoyed at knowing M. LLLLegrandin.’ This trick of isolating a word, was, in Bloch, a sign at once of irony and of learning. Saint-Loup, who had never heard the name of Legrandin, was bewildered. ‘But who is he?’ ‘Oh, he’s a bit of all right, he is!’ Bloch laughed, thrusting his hands into his pockets as though for warmth, convinced that he was at that moment engaged in contemplation of the picturesque aspect of an extraordinary country gentleman compared to whom those of Barbey d’Aurevilly were as nothing. He consoled himself for his inability to portray M. Legrandin by giving him a string of capital L’s, smacking his lips over the name as over a wine from the farthest bin. But these subjective enjoyments remained hidden from other people. If he spoke ill of me to Saint-Loup he made up for it by speaking no less ill of Saint-Loup to me. We had each of us learned these slanders in detail, the next day, not that we repeated them to each other, a thing which would have seemed to us very wrong, but to Bloch appeared so natural and almost inevitable that in his natural anxiety, in the certainty moreover that he would be telling us only what each of us was bound sooner or later to know, he preferred to anticipate the disclosure and, taking Saint-Loup aside, admitted that he had spoken ill of him, on purpose, so that it might be repeated to him, swore to him ‘by Zeus Kronion, binder of oaths’ that he loved him dearly, that he would lay down his life for him; and wiped away a tear. The same day, he contrived to see me alone, made his confession, declared that he had acted in my interest, because he felt that a certain kind of social intercourse was fatal to me and that I was ‘worthy of better things.’ Then, clasping me by the hand, with the sentimentality of a drunkard, albeit his drunkenness was purely nervous: ‘Believe me,’ he said, ‘and may the black Ker seize me this instant and bear me across the portals of Hades, hateful to men, if yesterday, when I thought of you, of Combray, of my boundless affection for you, of afternoon hours in class which you do not even remember, I did not lie awake weeping all night long. Yes, all night long, I swear it, and alas, I know—for I know the human soul—you will not believe me.’ I did indeed ‘not believe’ him, and to his words which, I felt, he was making up on the spur of the moment, and expanding as he went on, his swearing ‘by Ker’ added no great weight, the Hellenic cult being in Bloch purely literary. Besides, whenever he began to grow sentimental and wished his hearer to grow sentimental over a falsehood, he would say: ‘I swear it,’ more for the hysterical satisfaction of lying than to make people think that he was speaking the truth. I did not believe what he was saying, but I bore him no ill-will for that, for I had inherited from my mother and grandmother their incapacity for resentment even of far worse offenders, and their habit of never condemning anyone.
我没想到我们会被允许认识他，因为小布洛赫曾对圣卢说我的坏话，也曾对我说圣卢的坏话。特别是，他对罗伯特说我（一直）是一个可怕的势利小人。 “是的，真的，他对认识勒格兰丹先生感到非常高兴。”在布洛赫看来，这种孤立单词的技巧既是讽刺，也是学习的标志。圣卢从未听说过勒格朗丹的名字，他感到很困惑。 “但是他是谁？”“哦，他还不错，确实是！”布洛赫大笑起来，把手插进口袋里，仿佛在取暖，他确信自己此刻正沉浸在对风景如画的景色的沉思中。一位非凡的乡村绅士，与巴贝·达勒维利的那些人相比，简直是微不足道。他安慰自己无法描绘勒格朗丹先生，给了他一串大写的“L”，用嘴唇咂着这个名字，就像喝着来自最远垃圾箱的酒一样。但这些主观的享受对其他人来说仍然是隐藏的。如果他对圣卢说我的坏话，他也会对我说圣卢的坏话来弥补。第二天，我们每个人都详细了解了这些诽谤，并不是我们互相重复这些诽谤，这对我们来说似乎是非常错误的，但对布洛赫来说，这显得如此自然，几乎不可避免，以至于在他自然的焦虑中，而且他确信他只会告诉我们每个人迟早都必须知道的事情，因此他宁愿预见到这一点，并把圣卢拉到一边，承认他是故意说他的坏话的，所以以便可以向他重复这句话，“以起誓人宙斯·克罗尼翁的名义”向他发誓，他深爱着他，愿意为他献出自己的生命；并擦掉一滴眼泪。 当天，他设法单独见我，坦白了自己的做法，宣称他的所作所为是为了我的利益，因为他觉得某种社交对我来说是致命的，而我“值得拥有更好的东西”。 ”，用酒鬼般的多愁善感握住我的手，尽管他的醉酒纯粹是紧张：“相信我，”他说，“愿黑克尔此刻抓住我，带我穿过地狱之门，可憎的各位，如果昨天，当我想起你们，想起贡布雷，想起我对你们无限的感情，想起你们甚至不记得的下午的课堂时光时，我并没有彻夜不眠地哭泣。是的，整个晚上，我发誓，唉，我知道——因为我了解人类的灵魂——你不会相信我。”我确实“不相信”他，而对于他的话，我觉得，他是他一时冲动地弥补了这一点，并随着他的继续而扩展，他的“克尔”发誓并没有增加很大的分量，希腊崇拜在布洛赫身上纯粹是文学性的。此外，每当他开始变得多愁善感，并希望他的听众对谎言变得多愁善感时，他就会说：“我发誓”，更多的是为了歇斯底里的谎言满足，而不是让人们认为他说的是真话。我不相信他说的话，但我并没有因此而对他怀有恶意，因为我从我的母亲和祖母那里继承了他们对甚至更严重的罪犯没有怨恨的能力，以及他们从不谴责任何人的习惯。

Besides, he was not altogether a bad youth, this Bloch; he could be, and was at times quite charming. And now that the race of Combray, the race from which sprang creatures absolutely unspoiled like my grandmother and mother, seems almost extinct, as I have hardly any choice now save between honest brutes—insensible and loyal, in whom the mere sound of their voices shews at once that they take absolutely no interest in one’s life—and another kind of men who so long as they are with one understand one, cherish one, grow sentimental even to tears, take—their revenge a few hours later by making some cruel joke at one’s expense, but return to one, always just as comprehending, as charming, as closely assimilated, for the moment, to oneself, I think that it is of this latter sort that I prefer if not the moral worth at any rate the society.
此外，这个布洛赫也不完全是个坏青年。他可以，而且有时非常迷人。现在，康布雷的种族，这个种族中孕育出像我的祖母和母亲一样绝对未受污染的生物，似乎几乎灭绝了，因为我现在除了诚实的畜生之间几乎别无选择——麻木和忠诚，在他们身上，仅仅听到他们的声音立即表明他们对一个人的生活完全不感兴趣——而另一种男人，只要和一个人在一起，就会理解一个人，珍惜一个人，变得多愁善感，甚至流泪，几个小时后，他们会通过做出一些残酷的事情来报复拿一个人开玩笑，但回到一个人，总是一样理解，一样迷人，一样紧密同化，暂时，对自己来说，我认为我更喜欢后一种，如果不是道德价值的话社会。

‘You cannot imagine my grief when I think of you,’ Bloch went on. ‘When you come to think of it, it is a rather Jewish side of my nature,’ he added ironically, contracting his pupils as though he had to prepare for the microscope an infinitesimal quantity of ‘Jewish blood,’ and as might (but never would) have said a great French noble who among his ancestors, all Christian, might nevertheless have included Samuel Bernard, or further still, the Blessed Virgin from whom, it is said, the Levy family claim descent, ‘coming out. I rather like,’ he continued, ‘to find room among my feelings for the share (not that it is more than a very tiny share) which may be ascribed to my Jewish origin.’ He made this statement because it seemed to him at once clever and courageous to speak the truth about his race, a truth which at the same time he managed to water down to a remarkable extent, like misers who decide to pay their debts but have not the courage to pay more than half. This kind of deceit which consists in having the boldness to proclaim the truth, but only after mixing with it an ample measure of lies which falsify it, is commoner than people think, and even among those who do not habitually practise it certain crises in life, especially those in which love is at stake, give them an opportunity of taking to it.
“当我想到你时，你无法想象我的悲伤，”布洛赫继续说道。 “当你仔细想想，这是我本性中相当犹太化的一面，”他讽刺地补充道，收缩了他的瞳孔，就好像他必须为显微镜准备微量的“犹太血统”，并且可能（但一位伟大的法国贵族绝不会这么说，他的祖先都是基督徒，但他可能会包括塞缪尔·伯纳德，或者更进一步，据说，列维家族声称自己是圣母玛利亚的后裔，“出身”。 “我宁愿，”他继续说道，“在我的感情中找到属于我的犹太出身的那部分（并不是说这只是很小的一部分）的空间。”他做出这样的声明是因为他觉得这似乎是在曾经聪明而勇敢地说出关于他的种族的真相，但同时他又设法在很大程度上淡化了这一真相，就像守财奴决定偿还债务但没有勇气偿还一半以上一样。这种欺骗在于大胆地宣扬真理，但只是在其中掺入了大量的谎言来歪曲真理，这种欺骗比人们想象的更为普遍，甚至在那些不习惯这样做的人中也会出现生活中的某些危机。 ，特别是那些涉及爱情的事情，给他们一个机会去拥抱它。

All these confidential diatribes by Bloch to Saint-Loup against me and to me against Saint-Loup ended in an invitation to dinner. I am by no means sure that he did not first make an attempt to secure Saint-Loup by himself. It would have been so like Bloch to do so that probably he did; but if so success did not crown his effort, for it was to myself and Saint-Loup that Bloch said one day: ‘Dear master, and you, O horseman beloved of Ares, de Saint-Loup-en-Bray, tamer of horses, since I have encountered you by the shore of Amphitrite, resounding with foam, hard by the tents of the swift-shipped Méniers, will both of you come to dinner any day this week with my illustrious sire, of blameless heart?’ He proffered this invitation because he desired to attach himself more closely to Saint-Loup who would, he hoped, secure him the right of entry into aristocratic circles. Formed by me for myself, this ambition would have seemed to Bloch the mark of the most hideous snobbishness, quite in keeping with the opinion that he already held of a whole side of my nature which he did not regard—or at least had not hitherto regarded—as its most important side; but the same ambition in himself seemed to him the proof of a finely developed curiosity in a mind anxious to carry out certain social explorations from which he might perhaps glean some literary benefit. M. Bloch senior, when his son had told him that he was going to bring one of his friends in to dinner, and had in a sarcastic but satisfied tone enunciated the name and title of that friend: ‘The Marquis de Saint-Loup-en-Bray,’ had been thrown into great commotion. ‘The Marquis de Saint-Loup-en-Bray! I’ll be jiggered!’ he had exclaimed, using the oath which was with him the strongest indication of social deference. And he cast at a son capable of having formed such an acquaintance an admiring glance which seemed to say: ‘Really, it is astounding. Can this prodigy be indeed a child of mine?’ which gave my friend as much pleasure as if his monthly allowance had been increased by fifty francs. For Bloch was not in his element at home and felt that his father treated him like a lost sheep because of his lifelong admiration for Leconte de Lisle, Heredia and other ‘Bohemians.’ But to have got to know Saint-Loup-en-Bray, whose father had been chairman of the Suez Canal board (’I’ll be jiggered!’) was an indisputable ‘score.’ What a pity, indeed, that they had left in Paris, for fear of its being broken on the journey, the stereoscope. Alone among men, M. Bloch senior had the art, or at least the right to exhibit it. He did this, moreover, on rare occasions only, and then to good purpose, on evenings when there was a full-dress affair, with hired waiters. So that from these exhibitions of the stereoscope there emanated, for those who were present, as it were a special distinction, a privileged position, and for the master of the house who gave them a reputation such as talent confers on a man—which could not have been greater had the photographs been taken by M. Bloch himself and the machine his own invention. ‘You weren’t invited to Solomon’s yesterday?’ one of the family would ask another. ‘No! I was not one of the elect. What was on?’ ‘Oh, a great how-d’ye-do, the stereoscope, the whole box of tricks!’ ‘Indeed! If they had the stereoscope I’m sorry I wasn’t there; they say Solomon is quite amazing when he works it.’—‘It can’t be helped;’ said M. Bloch now to his son, ‘it’s a mistake to let him have everything at once; that would leave him nothing to look forward to.’ He had actually thought, in his paternal affection and in the hope of touching his son’s heart, of sending for the instrument. But there was not time, or rather they had thought there would not be; for we were obliged to put off the dinner because Saint-Loup could not leave the hotel, where he was waiting for an uncle who was coming to spend a few days with Mme. de Villeparisis. Since—for he was greatly addicted to physical culture, and especially to long walks—it was largely on foot, spending the night in wayside farms, that this uncle was to make the journey from the country house in which he was staying, the precise date of his arrival at Balbec was by no means certain. And Saint-Loup, afraid to stir out of doors, even entrusted me with the duty of taking to Incauville, where the nearest telegraph-office was, the messages that he sent every day to his mistress. The uncle for whom we were waiting was called Palamède, a name that had come down to him from his ancestors, the Princes of Sicily. And later on when I found, as I read history, belonging to this or that Podestà or Prince of the Church, the same Christian name, a fine renaissance medal—some said, a genuine antique—that had always remained in the family, having passed from generation to generation, from the Vatican cabinet to the uncle of my friend, I felt the pleasure that is reserved for those who, unable from lack of means to start a case of medals, or a picture gallery, look out for old names (names of localities, instructive and picturesque as an old map, a bird’s-eye view, a sign-board or a return of customs; baptismal names, in which rings out and is plainly heard, in their fine French endings, the defect of speech, the intonation of a racial vulgarity, the vicious pronunciation by which our ancestors made Latin and Saxon words undergo lasting mutilations which in due course became the august law-givers of our grammar books) and, in short, by drawing upon their collections of ancient and sonorous words, give themselves concerts like the people who acquire viols da gamba and viols d’amour so as to perform the music of days gone by upon old-fashioned instruments. Saint-Loup told me that even in the most exclusive aristocratic society his uncle Palamède had the further distinction of being particularly difficult to approach, contemptuous, double-dyed in his nobility, forming with his brother’s wife and a few other chosen spirits what was known as the Phoenix Club. There even his insolence was so much dreaded that it had happened more than once that people of good position who had been anxious to meet him and had applied to his own brother for an introduction had met with a refusal: ‘Really, you mustn’t ask me to introduce you to my brother Palamède. My wife and I, we would all of us do our best for you, but it would be no good. Besides, there’s always the danger of his being rude to you, and I shouldn’t like that.’ At the Jockey Club he had, with a few of his friends, marked a list of two hundred members whom they would never allow to be introduced to them. And in the Comte de Paris’s circle he was known by the nickname of ‘The Prince’ because of his distinction and his pride.
布洛赫对圣卢对我以及我对圣卢的所有这些秘密谩骂最终都以共进晚餐的邀请告终。我绝对不能确定他不是首先试图独自保护圣卢。布洛赫很可能会这样做，所以他可能会这么做。但如果这样的成功并没有使他的努力更加成功，因为有一天布洛赫对我和圣卢说：“亲爱的主人，还有你，阿瑞斯心爱的骑手，德圣卢昂布雷，驯马师“既然我在安菲特里特海岸遇见了你们，在泡沫回响的地方，在快速运送的梅尼耶号的帐篷旁，你们俩愿意在本周的任何一天与我杰出的先生一起共进晚餐吗？”他提出。他之所以发出这个邀请，是因为他希望与圣卢更加亲近，他希望圣卢能够确保他进入贵族圈子的权利。这种野心是我为自己形成的，在布洛赫看来，这是最可怕的势利的标志，这与他已经持有的我本性的整个方面的观点是一致的，而他没有考虑到这一点——或者至少迄今为止还没有。被视为——其最重要的一面；但在他看来，他内心的同样雄心壮志证明了他内心深处强烈的好奇心，渴望进行某些社会探索，也许他可以从中获得一些文学上的好处。老布洛赫先生，当他的儿子告诉他要带一位朋友来吃晚饭时，他用讽刺但满意的语气说出了那位朋友的名字和头衔：“圣卢侯爵—— en-Bray”引起了巨大的骚动。 “圣卢昂布赖侯爵！我会被震住的！”他大声说道，用的誓言是他对社会尊重的最强烈表现。 他向一个能够结识如此熟人的儿子投去钦佩的目光，似乎在说：“真的，这太令人震惊了。”难道这个神童真的是我的孩子吗？”这让我的朋友非常高兴，就好像他每月的零用钱增加了五十法郎一样。因为布洛赫在家里并不合群，他觉得父亲对待他就像一只迷失的羊，因为他一生都崇拜莱孔特·德·莱尔、埃雷迪亚和其他“波西米亚人”。 ，他的父亲曾担任苏伊士运河董事会主席（“我会被欺骗！”）是一个无可争议的“分数”。确实遗憾的是，他们离开了巴黎，因为担心在旅途中它会被打破。 ，立体镜。老布洛赫先生是人类中唯一拥有这种艺术的人，或者至少是拥有展示这种艺术的权利的人。而且，他只在极少数的情况下这样做，而且是出于良好的目的，在晚上有盛装宴会并雇用服务员的时候。因此，对于那些在场的人来说，这些立体视觉展览产生了一种特殊的区别，一种特权地位，而对于房子的主人来说，他给了他们一种声誉，就像人才赋予一个人一样——这可以如果这些照片是布洛赫先生亲自拍摄的，而机器是他自己发明的，那就再好不过了。 “昨天你没有被邀请去所罗门家吗？”其中一个家庭会问另一个家庭。 '不！我不是选民之一。发生了什么？” “哦，真是太棒了，立体镜，整套技巧！” “确实！如果他们有立体镜，我很遗憾我不在场；他们说所罗门在工作时非常了不起。”——“这也是没办法的事，”布洛赫先生现在对他的儿子说，“让他一下子拥有一切是错误的；他不能让他拥有一切。”那会让他没有什么可期待的。’他其实本着父爱，也希望打动儿子的心，想派人去拿乐器来。但没有时间，或者更确切地说，他们认为不会有时间；我们不得不推迟晚餐，因为圣卢无法离开旅馆，他正在旅馆里等待一位叔叔，他要来和夫人待几天。德维尔帕里西斯。因为——因为他非常沉迷于体育锻炼，尤其是长途步行——这位叔叔主要是步行，在路边农场过夜，所以这位叔叔要从他住的乡间别墅出发，准确地说，他抵达巴尔贝克的日期根本无法确定。圣卢不敢出门，甚至委托我负责把他每天发给情妇的电报送到最近的电报局所在的因考维尔。我们等待的叔叔名叫帕拉梅德，这个名字是他的祖先西西里王子们传下来的。 后来，当我读历史时，我发现，属于这个或那个 Podestà 或教会王子，有相同的教名，一枚精美的文艺复兴奖章——有人说，是真正的古董——一直留在这个家庭，代代相传，从梵蒂冈内阁到我朋友的叔叔，我感受到了为那些因缺乏资金而无法开始一箱奖章或画廊而寻找旧名字的人保留的乐趣（地点的名称，具有启发性和风景如画，如旧地图、鸟瞰图、招牌或海关返回；洗礼的名称，在其精美的法语结尾中响起并清晰地听到，其缺陷语言、种族粗俗的语调、我们的祖先使拉丁语和撒克逊语单词遭受持久残害的恶毒发音，这些单词在适当的时候成为了我们语法书的庄严立法者），简而言之，通过借鉴他们收集的古老而铿锵有力的词语，给自己举办音乐会，就像那些获得了维奥尔斯达甘巴和维奥尔斯达穆尔的人们一样，以便用老式乐器演奏过去的音乐。圣卢告诉我，即使在最排外的贵族社会，他的叔叔帕拉梅德也有一个特别难以接近、轻蔑、双重贵族身份的特征，与他兄弟的妻子和其他一些被选中的精灵一起形成了众所周知的东西。如凤凰俱乐部。在那里，甚至连他的无礼都让人感到害怕，以至于不止一次地发生过那些渴望见到他、向他自己的兄弟申请介绍的有地位的人都遭到拒绝的情况：“真的，你不应该这样。”请我向您介绍我的兄弟帕拉梅德。 我和我的妻子，我们会竭尽全力为你服务，但这不会有什么好处。此外，他总是有对你粗鲁的危险，我不应该喜欢这样。”在赛马俱乐部，他和他的几个朋友一起列出了一份 200 名会员的名单，他们永远不会允许这些人加入。介绍给他们。在巴黎伯爵的圈子里，由于他的杰出和骄傲，他被称为“王子”。

Saint-Loup told me about his uncle’s early life, now a long time ago. Every day he used to take women to a bachelor establishment which he shared with two of his friends, as good-looking as himself, on account of which they were known as ‘The Three Graces.’
圣卢向我讲述了他叔叔的早年生活，那是很久以前的事了。他每天都会带女人去一个单身汉场所，他和两个和他一样英俊的朋友合住，因此他们被称为“美惠三女神”。

‘One day, a man who just now is very much in the eye, as Balzac would say, of the Faubourg Saint-Germain, but who at a rather awkward period of his early life displayed odd tastes, asked my uncle to let him come to this place. But no sooner had he arrived than it was not to the ladies but to my uncle Palamède that he began to make overtures. My uncle pretended not to understand, made an excuse to send for his two friends; they appeared on the scene, seized the offender, stripped him, thrashed him till he bled, and then with twenty degrees of frost outside kicked him into the street where he was found more dead than alive; so much so that the police started an inquiry which the poor devil had the greatest difficulty in getting them to abandon. My uncle would never go in for such drastic methods now, in fact you can’t conceive the number of men of humble position that he, who is so haughty with people in society, has shewn his affection, taken under his wing, even if he is paid for it with ingratitude. It may be a servant who has looked after him in a hotel, for whom he will find a place in Paris, or a farm-labourer whom he will pay to have taught a trade. That is really the rather nice side of his character, in contrast to his social side.’ Saint-Loup indeed belonged to that type of young men of fashion, situated at an altitude at which it has been possible to cultivate such expressions as: ‘What is really rather nice about him,’ ‘His rather nice side,’ precious seeds which produce very rapidly a way of looking at things in which one counts oneself as nothing and the ‘people’ as everything; the exact opposite, in a word, of plebeian pride. ‘It seems, it is quite impossible to imagine how he set the tone, how he laid down the law for the whole of society when he was a young man. He acted entirely for himself; in any circumstances he did what seemed pleasing to himself, what was most convenient, but at once the snobs would start copying him. If he felt thirsty at the play, and sent out from his box for a drink, the little sitting-rooms behind all the boxes would be filled, a week later, with refreshments. One wet summer, when he had a touch of rheumatism, he ordered an ulster of a loose but warm vicuna wool, which is used only for travelling rugs, and kept the blue and orange stripes shewing. The big tailors at once received orders from all their customers for blue and orange ulsters of rough wool. If he had some reason for wishing to keep every trace of ceremony out of a dinner in a country house where he was spending the day, and to point the distinction had come without evening clothes and sat down to table in the suit he had been wearing that afternoon, it became the fashion, when you were dining in the country, not to dress. If he was eating some special sweet and instead of taking his spoon used a knife, or a special implement of his own invention which he had had made for him by a silversmith, or his fingers, it at once became wrong to eat it in any other way. He wanted once to hear some Beethoven quartets again (for with all his preposterous ideas he is no fool, mind, he has great gifts) and arranged for some musicians to come and play them to him and a few friends once a week. The ultra-fashionable thing that season was to give quite small parties, with chamber music. I should say he’s not done at all badly out of life. With his looks, he must have had any number of women! I can’t tell you exactly whom, for he is very discreet. But I do know that he was thoroughly unfaithful to my poor aunt. Not that that prevented his being always perfectly charming to her, and her adoring him; he was in mourning for her for years. When he is in Paris, he still goes to the cemetery nearly every day.’
“有一天，正如巴尔扎克所说，一个人现在很受圣日耳曼郊区的关注，但在他早年生活的一个相当尴尬的时期表现出奇怪的品味，他请求我叔叔让他来到这个地方。但他一到，就开始向我叔叔帕拉梅德而非女士们示好。我叔叔假装不明白，借口叫他的两个朋友来。他们出现在现场，抓住了罪犯，剥光了他的衣服，把他打得流血，然后在外面二十度的霜冻下把他踢到街上，人们发现他已经死了。以至于警察开始了一项调查，可怜的家伙费了很大的劲才让他们放弃。我叔叔现在绝不会采取如此激烈的手段，事实上你无法想象有多少地位卑微的人，他对社会上的人如此傲慢，却表现出他的感情，将其置于他的羽翼下，即使他为此付出了忘恩负义的代价。可能是一个在旅馆里照顾他的仆人，他会在巴黎为他找到一个地方，也可能是一个农场工人，他会付钱让他教一门手艺。与他的社交方面相比，这确实是他性格中相当好的一面。”圣卢确实属于那种类型的时尚年轻人，处于一个可以培养这样的表达方式的高度：“他到底有什么好的地方，“他相当好的一面”，宝贵的种子很快就会产生一种看待事物的方式，在这种方式中，一个人认为自己什么都不是，而“人民”就是一切；简而言之，这与平民的骄傲恰恰相反。 ‘看来，很难想象他年轻时是如何定调、如何为整个社会制定法律的。他完全是为了自己而行动。在任何情况下，他都会做自己认为满意、最方便的事情，但势利小人很快就会开始效仿他。如果他在看戏时感到口渴，并从自己的包厢里出去喝水，那么一周后，所有包厢后面的小客厅就会装满茶点。一个潮湿的夏天，当他患有轻微的风湿病时，他订购了一件宽松但温暖的骆驼毛毛毯，这种毛毯只用于旅行地毯，并保留了蓝色和橙色的条纹。大裁缝立即收到了所有顾客的蓝色和橙色羊毛粗羊毛订单。如果他有什么理由希望在他度过一天的乡间别墅的晚宴上避免一切仪式，并指出这种区别是没有穿晚礼服并穿着他一直穿着的西装坐在餐桌旁的那天下午，当你在乡下吃饭时，不穿衣服就成了一种时尚。如果他正在吃某种特殊的甜食，而不是用勺子，而用刀，或者他自己发明的银匠为他制作的特殊工具，或者他的手指，那么用任何东西吃它都会立即变得错误。另一种方式。有一次，他想再听一些贝多芬的四重奏（尽管他有很多荒谬的想法，但他并不傻，注意，他有伟大的天赋），并安排一些音乐家每周一次为他和几个朋友演奏一次。那个季节最流行的事情是举办小型聚会，并伴有室内乐。我应该说他的生活一点也不糟糕。以他的样子，肯定有过不少女人吧！ 我不能告诉你具体是谁，因为他非常谨慎。但我确实知道他对我可怜的姨妈完全不忠。但这并不妨碍他对她始终充满魅力，也妨碍她对他的崇拜。他多年来一直为她哀悼。当他在巴黎时，他仍然几乎每天都去墓地。’

The morning after Robert had told me all these things about his uncle, while he waited for him (and waited, as it happened, in vain), as I was coming by myself past the Casino on my way back to the hotel, I had the sensation of being watched by somebody who was not far off. I turned my head and saw a man of about forty, very tall and rather stout, with a very dark moustache, who, nervously slapping the leg of his trousers with a switch, kept fastened upon me a pair of eyes dilated with observation. Every now and then those eyes were shot through by a look of intense activity such as the sight of a person whom they do not know excites only in men to whom, for whatever reason, it suggests thoughts that would not occur to anyone else—madmen, for instance, or spies. He trained upon me a supreme stare at once bold, prudent, rapid and profound, like a last shot which one fires at an enemy at the moment when one turns to flee, and, after first looking all round him, suddenly adopting an absent and lofty air, by an abrupt revolution of his whole body turned to examine a playbill on the wall in the reading of which he became absorbed, while he hummed a tune and fingered the moss-rose in his buttonhole. He drew from his pocket a note-book in which he appeared to be taking down the title of the performance that was announced, looked two or three times at his watch, pulled down over his eyes a black straw hat the brim of which he extended with his hand held out over it like a visor, as though to see whether some one were at last coming, made the perfunctory gesture of annoyance by which people mean to shew that they have waited long enough, although they never make it when they are really waiting, then pushing back his hat and exposing a scalp cropped close except at the sides where he allowed a pair of waved ‘pigeon’s-wings’ to grow quite long, he emitted the loud panting breath that people give who are not feeling too hot but would like it to be thought that they were. He gave me the impression of a ‘hotel crook’ who had been watching my grandmother and myself for some days, and while he was planning to rob us had just discovered that I had surprised him in the act of spying; to put me off the scent, perhaps he was seeking only, by his new attitude, to express boredom and detachment, but it was with an exaggeration so aggressive that his object appeared to be—at least as much as the dissipating of the suspicions that I must have had of him—to avenge a humiliation which quite unconsciously I must have inflicted on him, to give me the idea not so much that he had not seen me as that I was an object of too little importance to attract his attention. He threw back his shoulders with an air of bravado, bit his lips, pushed up his moustache, and in the lens of his eyes made an adjustment of something that was indifferent, harsh, almost insulting. So effectively that the singularity of his expression made me take him at one moment for a thief and at another for a lunatic. And yet his scrupulously ordered attire was far more sober and far more simple than that of any of the summer visitors I saw at Balbec, and gave a reassurance to my own suit, so often humiliated by the dazzling and commonplace whiteness of their holiday garb. But my grandmother was coming towards me, we took a turn together, and I was waiting for her, an hour later, outside the hotel into which she had gone for a moment, when I saw emerge from it Mme. de Villeparisis with Robert de Saint-Loup and the stranger who had stared at me so intently outside the Casino. Swift as a lightning-flash his look shot through me, just as at the moment when I first noticed him, and returned, as though he had not seen me, to hover, slightly lowered, before his eyes, dulled, like the neutral look which feigns to see nothing without and is incapable of reporting anything to the mind within, the look which expresses merely the satisfaction of feeling round it the eyelids which it cleaves apart with its sanctimonious roundness, the devout, the steeped look that we see on the faces of certain hypocrites, the smug look on those of certain fools. I saw that he had changed his clothes. The suit he was wearing was darker even than the other; and no doubt this was because the true distinction in dress lies nearer to simplicity than the false; but there was something more; when one came near him one felt that if colour was almost entirely absent from these garments it was not because he who had banished it from them was indifferent to it but rather because for some reason he forbade himself the enjoyment of it. And the sobriety which they displayed seemed to be of the kind that comes from obedience to a rule of diet rather than from want of appetite. A dark green thread harmonised, in the stuff of his trousers, with the clock on his socks, with a refinement which betrayed the vivacity of a taste that was everywhere else conquered, to which this single concession had been made out of tolerance for such a weakness, while a spot of red on his necktie was imperceptible, like a liberty which one dares not take.
罗伯特告诉我关于他叔叔的所有这些事情的第二天早上，当他等待他时（事实上，等待是徒劳的），当我在回酒店的路上独自经过赌场时，我被不远处的人注视的感觉。我转过头，看到一个四十岁左右的男人，很高，很粗，留着很黑的小胡子，他紧张地用开关拍打着裤腿，一双睁大的眼睛一直盯着我，观察着。时不时地，那些眼睛里会闪现出一种强烈的活动神情，比如看到一个他们不认识的人只会让男人兴奋，不管出于什么原因，这会暗示出其他人不会想到的想法——疯子。 ，例如，或间谍。他用一种至高无上的目光注视着我，既大胆、谨慎、迅速又深邃，就像一个人在转身逃跑时向敌人开出的最后一枪，在先环顾四周之后，突然采取一种心不在焉的眼神。他的整个身体猛地一转，转身查看墙上的一张节目单，他全神贯注地读着，一边哼着小调，一边用手指抚弄着纽扣孔里的苔藓玫瑰。 他从口袋里掏出一个笔记本，上面似乎正在记下即将宣布的演出的名称，他看了两三遍手表，拉下一顶黑色草帽遮住眼睛，并伸出帽檐。他的手像遮阳板一样伸出来，仿佛要看看是否有人终于来了，他做出了一种敷衍的恼怒的手势，人们的意思是表明他们已经等得够久了，尽管他们从来没有等到他们来的时候。他真的在等待，然后把帽子往后推，露出头皮，除了两侧，他让一对挥舞着的“鸽子翅膀”长得很长，他发出大声的喘气声，就像那些不觉得太热的人一样但希望人们认为他们是。他给我的印象就像一个“酒店骗子”，他已经监视我和我祖母好几天了，当他计划抢劫我们时，刚刚发现我的间谍行为让他大吃一惊；为了让我忽略这一点，也许他只是想通过他的新态度来表达无聊和超然，但他的目的似乎是夸张得如此咄咄逼人——至少是为了消除人们的怀疑我一定是对他有好感——为了报复我无意识地对他造成的羞辱，让我觉得与其说他没有看到我，不如说我是一个太不重要的物体，不足以引起他的注意。他一副虚张声势的样子向后挺起肩膀，咬着嘴唇，撅起小胡子，目光中的神情显得冷漠、严厉、近乎侮辱。如此有效，以至于他的表情奇特，让我一会儿把他当作小偷，一会儿又把他当作疯子。 然而，他精心挑选的服装比我在巴尔贝克看到的任何夏季游客的服装都要朴素、简单得多，这让我自己的着装放心了，因为我经常被他们节日服装的耀眼而普通的白色所羞辱。但我的祖母正朝我走来，我们一起转了一圈，一个小时后，我在她住过一会儿的旅馆外面等她，这时我看到从旅馆里出来的夫人。德·维尔帕里西斯和罗伯特·德·圣卢以及赌场外那个一直专注地盯着我看的陌生人。他的目光如闪电般迅速地射过我，就像我第一次注意到他的那一刻一样，然后又像没有看到我一样，在他眼前盘旋，稍微低下，呆滞，就像中性的眼神一样。它假装看不见外面的任何东西，也无法向内在的心灵报告任何东西，这种表情仅仅表达了对它周围的感觉的满足，眼睑以其道貌岸然的圆度分开，我们在眼睛上看到的虔诚，沉浸的表情某些伪君子的面孔，某些傻瓜的得意表情。我看到他已经换好了衣服。他穿的这套衣服比另一套颜色更深。毫无疑问，这是因为真正的着装区别比虚假的更接近于简单。但还有更多的事情；当人们走近他时，人们会觉得，如果这些衣服几乎完全没有颜色，那并不是因为将颜色从这些衣服上驱逐的他对此漠不关心，而是因为出于某种原因，他禁止自己享受它。他们所表现出的清醒似乎来自于对饮食规则的服从，而不是因为食欲不振。 一条深绿色的线，在他的裤子里，与袜子上的时钟相协调，带着一种精致，背叛了一种在其他地方都被征服的活泼品味，这一单一的让步是出于对这样一个人的容忍而做出的。软弱，而领带上的一处红点却不易察觉，就像是一种不敢冒犯的自由。

‘How are you? Let me introduce my nephew, the Baron de Guermantes,’ Mme. de Villeparisis greeted me, while the stranger without looking at me, muttering a vague ‘Charmed!’ which he followed with a ‘H’m, h’m, h’m’ to give his affability an air of having been forced, and doubling back his little finger, forefinger and thumb, held out to me his middle and ring fingers, the latter bare of any ring, which I clasped through his suede glove; then, without lifting his eyes to my face, he turned towards Mme. de Villeparisis.
'你好吗？让我介绍一下我的侄子，盖尔芒特男爵，”夫人。德·维尔帕里西斯向我打招呼，而那个陌生人却没有看我一眼，含糊不清地咕哝着“迷住了！”，接着又发出“嗯、嗯、嗯”的声音，让他的和蔼可亲显得像是被迫的。他的小指、食指和拇指对折，向我伸出中指和无名指，后者没有戴任何戒指，我通过他的绒面革手套紧握着它。然后，他没有抬起眼睛看我的脸，而是转向了夫人。德维尔帕里西斯。

‘Good gracious; I shall be forgetting my own name next!’ she exclaimed. ‘Here am I calling you Baron de Guermantes. Let me introduce the Baron de Charlus. After all, it’s not a very serious mistake,’ she went on, ‘for you’re a thorough Guermantes whatever else you are.’
'好亲切;接下来我就会忘记自己的名字了！”她惊呼道。 “我称呼您为盖尔芒特男爵。让我介绍一下夏吕斯男爵。毕竟，这不是一个非常严重的错误，”她继续说道，“因为无论你是什么，你都是一个彻头彻尾的盖尔芒特人。”

By this time my grandmother had reappeared, and we all set out together. Saint-Loup’s uncle declined to honour me not only with a word, with so much as a look, even, in my direction. If he stared strangers out of countenance (and during this short excursion he two or three times hurled his terrible and searching scrutiny like a sounding lead at insignificant people of obviously humble extraction who happened to pass), to make up for that he never for a moment, if I was to judge by myself, looked at the people whom he did know, just as a detective on special duty might except his personal friends from his professional vigilance. Leaving them—my grandmother, Mme. de Villeparisis and him—to talk to one another, I fell behind with Saint-Loup.
这时，奶奶又出现了，我们就一起出发了。圣卢的叔叔拒绝向我表示敬意，不仅只说一句话，甚至连看我一眼都拒绝。如果他不正经地盯着陌生人（在这次短暂的旅行中，他两次或三次地用他可怕的、仔细的审视，就像对碰巧路过的出身卑微的无足轻重的人发出的声音一样），为了弥补这一点，他从来没有此刻，如果我要自己判断的话，看看他所认识的人，就像一个执行特殊任务的侦探可能会从他的职业警惕中排除他的私人朋友一样。留下他们——我的祖母，夫人。德维尔帕里西斯和他——在相互交谈方面，我落后于圣卢。

‘Tell me, am I right in thinking I heard Mme. de Villeparisis say just now to your uncle that he was a Guermantes?’
“告诉我，我认为我听到了夫人的话对吗？”德维尔帕里西斯刚才对你叔叔说他是盖尔芒特家族的人？

‘Of course he is; Palamède de Guermantes.’
“他当然是；盖尔芒特宫。”

‘Not the same Guermantes who have a place near Combray, and claim descent from Geneviève de Brabant?’
“这不是盖尔芒特人吗？他在贡布雷附近有一个地方，并声称是吉纳维芙·德·布拉班特的后裔？”

‘Most certainly: my uncle, who is the very last word in heraldry and all that sort of thing, would tell you that our ‘cry,’ our war-cry, that is to say, which was changed afterwards to ‘Passavant’ was originally ‘Combraysis,’’ he said, smiling so as not to appear to be priding himself on this prerogative of a ‘cry,’ which only the semi-royal houses, the great chiefs of feudal bands enjoyed. ‘It’s his brother who has the place now.’
“当然：我的叔叔，纹章学和诸如此类的事情的最后一个词，会告诉你，我们的‘呐喊’，我们的战争呐喊，也就是说，后来被改为‘帕萨万特’原来是“Combraysis”，”他微笑着说道，以免显得自己对这种“哭泣”的特权感到自豪，这种特权只有半王室家族、封建集团的伟大首领才享有。 “现在这个位置是他兄弟的了。”

And so she was indeed related, and quite closely, to the Guermantes, this Mme. de Villeparisis who had so long been for me the lady who had given me a duck filled with chocolates, when I was little, more remote then from the Guermantes way than if she had been shut up somewhere on the Méséglise, less brilliant, less highly placed by me than was the Combray optician, and who now suddenly went through one of those fantastic rises in value, parallel to the depreciations, no less unforeseen, of other objects in our possession, which—rise and fall alike—introduce in our youth and in those periods of our life in which a trace of youth persists changes as numerous as the Metamorphoses of Ovid.
因此，这位盖尔芒特夫人确实与盖尔芒特家族有亲戚关系，而且关系非常密切。德维尔帕里西斯对我来说已经很久了，那个在我还小的时候给我一只装满巧克力的鸭子的女士，比她被关在梅塞格利塞的某个地方还要远离盖尔芒特，她不那么聪明，也不那么高贵。我把贡布雷的眼镜商放在了第一位，他现在突然经历了一场惊人的价值上涨，与我们拥有的其他物品的贬值并行，同样不可预见的是，这些物品——升起和下降——在我们年轻时引入在我们生命中那些残留着青春痕迹的时期，变化的数量不亚于奥维德的《变形记》。

‘Haven’t they got, down there, the busts of all the old lords of Guermantes?’
“他们不是在下面找到了盖尔芒特所有老贵族的半身像吗？”

‘Yes; and a lovely sight they are!’ Saint-Loup was ironical. ‘Between you and me, I look on all that sort of thing as rather a joke. But they have got at Guermantes, what is a little more interesting, and, that is quite a touching portrait of my aunt by Carrière. It’s as fine as Whistler or Velasquez,’ went on Saint-Loup, who in his neophyte zeal was not always very exact about degrees of greatness. ‘There are also some moving pictures by Gustave Moreau. My aunt is the niece of your friend Mme. de Ville-parisis; she was brought up by her, and married her cousin, who was a nephew, too, of my aunt Villeparisis, the present Duc de Guermantes.’
'是的;圣卢讽刺道。 “在你我之间，我把所有这些事情都看作是一个笑话。但他们到了盖尔芒特，更有趣的是，这是卡里埃尔为我姨妈画的一幅相当感人的肖像。它和惠斯勒或维拉斯奎兹一样好，”圣卢继续说道，他在新手的热情中并不总是非常准确地描述伟大的程度。 “还有一些古斯塔夫·莫罗的电影。我的姨妈是你朋友夫人的侄女。巴黎市政厅；她是由她抚养长大的，并嫁给了她的表弟，她的表弟也是我姨妈维勒帕里西斯（现任盖尔芒特公爵）的侄子。

‘Then who is this uncle?’
“那这位叔叔是谁？”

‘He bears the title of Baron de Charlus. Properly speaking, when my great-uncle died, my uncle Palamède ought to have taken the title of Prince des Laumes, which his brother used before he became Duc de Guermantes, for in that family they change their names as you’d change your shirt. But my uncle has peculiar ideas about all that sort of thing. And as he feels that people are rather apt to overdo the Italian Prince and Grandee of Spain business nowadays, though he had half-a-dozen titles of ‘Prince’ to choose from, he has remained Baron de Charlus, as a protest, and with an apparent simplicity which really covers a good deal of pride. ‘In these days,’ he says, ‘everybody is Prince something-or-other; one really must have a title that will distinguish one; I shall call myself Prince when I wish to travel incognito.’ According to him there is no older title than the Charlus barony; to prove to you that it is earlier than the Montmorency title, though they used to claim, quite wrongly, to be the premier barons of France when they were only premier in the He de France, where their fief was, my uncle will explain to you for hours on end and enjoy doing it, because, although he’s a most intelligent man, really gifted, he regards that sort of thing as quite a live topic of conversation,’ Saint-Loup smiled again. ‘But as I am not like him, you mustn’t ask me to talk pedigrees; I know nothing more deadly, more perishing; really, life is not long enough.’
“他拥有德·夏吕斯男爵的头衔。正确地说，当我的叔祖父去世时，我的叔叔帕拉梅德应该继承洛姆亲王的头衔，这是他的兄弟在成为盖尔芒特公爵之前使用的，因为在那个家族里，他们改变名字就像你改变衬衫一样。但我叔叔对这类事情有奇特的想法。由于他觉得现在人们很容易过度关注意大利王子和西班牙大公的事情，尽管他有六种“王子”头衔可供选择，但他仍然保留了夏吕斯男爵，以示抗议，并且表面上的简单，实际上隐藏着很大的自豪感。 “如今，”他说，“每个人都像王子一样；”一个人确实必须有一个能够让自己与众不同的头衔；当我想隐姓埋名旅行时，我会称自己为王子。”据他说，没有比查勒斯男爵更古老的头衔了。为了向你证明，它比蒙莫朗西头衔更早，尽管他们曾经非常错误地声称自己是法国的首要男爵，而当时他们只是在他们的封地所在的法兰西共和国担任首相，我叔叔会向你解释连续几个小时和你在一起，并享受这样做，因为，尽管他是一个最聪明的人，非常有天赋，但他认为这种事情是一个非常活跃的话题，”圣卢再次微笑。 “但我和他不一样，所以你不能让我谈论血统；我不知道还有什么比这更致命、更毁灭的了；真的，生命还不够长。

I now recognised in the hard look which had made me turn round that morning outside the Casino the same that I had seen fixed on me at Tan-sonville, at the moment when Mme. Swann called Gilberte away.
我现在认出了那天早上让我在赌场外转过身来的严厉目光，就像我在坦桑维尔看到的那样，当时我夫人正注视着我。斯万把吉尔贝特叫走了。

‘But, I say, all those mistresses that, you told me, your uncle M. de Charlus had had, wasn’t Mme. Swann one of them?’
“但是，我要说的是，你告诉我的，你叔叔德·夏吕斯先生曾经有过的那些情妇，都不是我夫人。”斯旺其中之一？

‘Good lord, no! That is to say, my uncle’s a great friend of Swann, and has always stood up for him. But no one has ever suggested that he was his wife’s lover. You would make a great sensation in Paris society if people thought you believed that.’
‘天哪，不！也就是说，我叔叔是斯旺的好朋友，并且一直为他辩护。但没有人暗示他是他妻子的情人。如果人们认为你相信这一点，你就会在巴黎社会引起轰动。”

I dared not reply that it would have caused an even greater sensation in Combray society if people had thought that I did not believe it.
我不敢回答说，如果人们认为我不相信的话，这会在贡布雷社会引起更大的轰动。

My grandmother was delighted with M. de Charlus. No doubt he attached an extreme importance to all questions of birth and social position, and my grandmother had remarked this, but without any trace of that severity which as a rule embodies a secret envy and the annoyance of seeing some one else enjoy an advantage which one would like but cannot oneself possess. As on the other hand my grandmother, content with her lot and never for a moment regretting that she did not move in a more brilliant sphere, employed only her intellect in observing the eccentricities of M. de Charlus, she spoke of Saint-Loup’s uncle with that detached, smiling, almost affectionate kindness with which we reward the object of our disinterested study for the pleasure that it has given us, all the more that this time the object was a person with regard to whom she found that his if not legitimate, at any rate picturesque pretensions shewed him in vivid contrast to the people whom she generally had occasion to see. But it was especially in consideration of his intelligence and sensibility, qualities which it was easy to see that M. de Charlus, unlike so many of the people in society whom Saint-Loup derided, possessed in a marked degree, that my grandmother had so readily forgiven him his aristocratic prejudice. And yet this had not been sacrificed by the uncle, as it was by the nephew, to higher qualities. Rather, M. de Charlus had reconciled it with them. Possessing, by virtue of his descent from the Ducs de Nemours and Princes de Lamballe, documents, furniture, tapestries, portraits painted for his ancestors by Raphael, Velasquez, Boucher, justified in saying that he was visiting a museum and a matchless library when he was merely turning over his family relics at home, he placed in the rank from which his nephew had degraded it the whole heritage of the aristocracy. Perhaps also, being less metaphysical than Saint-Loup, less satisfied with words, more of a realist in his study of men, he did not care to neglect a factor that was essential to his prestige in their eyes and, if it gave certain disinterested pleasures to his imagination, could often be a powerfully effective aid to his utilitarian activities. No agreement can ever be reached between men of his sort and those who obey the ideal within them which urges them to strip themselves bare of such advantages so that they may seek only to realise that ideal, similar in that respect to the painters, the writers who renounce their virtuosity, the artistic peoples who modernise themselves, warrior peoples who take the initiative in a move for universal disarmament, absolute governments which turn democratic and repeal their harsh laws, though as often as not the sequel fails to reward their noble effort; for the men lose their talent, the nations their secular predominance; ‘pacificism’ often multiplies wars and indulgence criminality. If Saint-Loup’s efforts towards sincerity and emancipation were only to be commended as most noble, to judge by their visible result, one could still be thankful that they had failed to bear fruit in M. de Charlus, who had transferred to his own home much of the admirable panelling from the Guermantes house, instead of substituting, like his nephew, a ‘modern style’ of decoration, employing Lebourg or Guillaumin. It was none the less true that M. de Charlus’s ideal was highly artificial, and, if the epithet can be applied to the word ideal, as much social as artistic. In certain women of great beauty and rare culture whose ancestresses, two centuries earlier, had shared in all the glory and grace of the old order, he found a distinction which made him take pleasure only in their society, and no doubt the admiration for them which he had protested was sincere, but countless reminiscences; historical and artistic, called forth by their names, entered into and formed a great part of it, just as suggestions of classical antiquity are one of the reasons for the pleasure which a booklover finds in reading an Ode of Horace that is perhaps inferior to poems of our own day which would leave the same booklover cold. Any of these women by the side of a pretty commoner was for him what are, hanging beside a contemporary canvas representing a procession or a wedding, those old pictures the history of which we know, from the Pope or King who ordered them, through the hands of people whose acquisition of them, by gift, purchase, conquest or inheritance, recalls to us some event or at least some alliance of historic interest, and consequently some knowledge that we ourselves have acquired, gives it a fresh utility, increases our sense of the richness of the possessions of our memory or of our erudition. M. de Charlus might be thankful that a prejudice similar to his own, by preventing these several great ladies from mixing with women whose blood was less pure, presented them for his veneration unspoiled, in their unaltered nobility, like an eighteenth-century house-front supported on its flat columns of pink marble, in which the passage of time has wrought no change.
我的祖母对德·夏吕斯先生很满意。毫无疑问，他极其重视所有出身和社会地位的问题，我的祖母也说过这一点，但没有任何严肃的迹象，这种严肃通常体现了一种秘密的嫉妒和看到别人享有优势的烦恼。一个人想要却不能自己拥有。另一方面，我的祖母对自己的命运感到满意，从未后悔自己没有进入更辉煌的领域，只用她的才智来观察德·夏吕斯先生的怪癖，她谈到了圣卢的叔叔我们用那种超然的、微笑的、近乎深情的善意来奖励我们无私研究的对象，因为它给我们带来了快乐，更重要的是，这次对象是一个她发现他即使不合法的人。无论如何，他的如画般的自负使他与她通常有机会见到的人形成了鲜明的对比。但特别是考虑到德·夏吕斯先生的聪明才智和感性，这些品质很容易看出，他与圣卢嘲笑的社会上许多人不同，他在很大程度上拥有这些品质，所以我的祖母才如此他欣然原谅了他的贵族偏见。然而，叔叔并没有像侄子那样，为了更高的品质而牺牲了这一点。相反，德·夏吕斯先生已经与他们达成了和解。 由于他是内穆尔公爵和兰巴勒亲王的后裔，他拥有拉斐尔、委拉斯开兹、布歇为他的祖先绘制的文件、家具、挂毯和肖像，有理由说，当他参观博物馆和无与伦比的图书馆时，他正在参观一座博物馆和一座无与伦比的图书馆。他只是将家中的遗物交出，就将整个贵族遗产归入了他侄子贬低的等级。或许，他不像圣卢那样形而上学，不太满足于文字，在对人的研究中更像是一个现实主义者，他不愿意忽视一个对他在他们眼中的威望至关重要的因素，如果这能给他带来某些无私的影响的话。他的想象力的乐趣往往可以成为他功利活动的有力有效的帮助。这种人与那些服从他们内心理想的人之间永远无法达成一致，这种理想促使他们剥夺自己的这些优势，以便他们只寻求实现那种理想，在这方面与画家、作家类似。放弃自己的精湛技艺的人、使自己现代化的艺术民族、主动推动普遍裁军的战士民族、转向民主并废除严酷法律的专制政府，尽管其后遗症往往未能奖励他们的崇高努力；因为人们失去了他们的才能，国家失去了世俗的优势； “和平主义”往往会加剧战争并纵容犯罪。如果圣卢的真诚和解放的努力仅仅被称赞为最高尚的，从其可见的结果来判断，人们仍然可以庆幸他们未能在M. 德·夏吕斯将盖尔芒特故居的大部分令人赞叹的镶板转移到了自己的家中，而不是像他的侄子那样，采用勒堡或吉约曼的“现代风格”装饰来取代。尽管如此，德·夏吕斯先生的理想确实是高度人为的，而且，如果这个绰号可以应用于理想这个词的话，那么它既具有社会性，又具有艺术性。在某些非常美丽和稀有文化的妇女中，她们的祖先在两个世纪前就分享了旧秩序的所有荣耀和优雅，他发现了一种区别，这种区别使他只对她们的交往感到高兴，毫无疑问，对她们的钦佩他辩称这是真诚的，但却是无数的回忆。历史的和艺术的，以他们的名字命名的，进入并形成了其中的很大一部分，就像古典古代的暗示是书迷在阅读贺拉斯颂歌时发现的乐趣的原因之一一样，这也许不如诗歌我们这个时代的书会让同一个爱书人感到冷淡。对他来说，这些漂亮平民旁边的女人中的任何一个都是什么，挂在代表游行或婚礼的当代画布旁边，那些我们知道历史的老照片，来自命令它们的教皇或国王，通过人们通过礼物、购买、征服或继承获得这些知识，让我们回想起一些事件或至少某种历史利益的联盟，因此我们自己获得的一些知识，赋予它新的效用，增加我们的感觉我们的记忆或博学的丰富程度。 M。 德·夏吕斯可能会庆幸的是，与他自己类似的偏见，通过阻止这几位伟大的女士与血统不那么纯洁的女人交往，让她们以未受破坏的方式受到他的崇拜，以不变的高贵，就像一座十八世纪的房子前面支撑着粉红色大理石的扁平柱子上，时间的流逝并没有造成任何变化。

M. de Charlus praised the true ‘nobility’ of mind and heart which characterised these women, playing upon the word in a double sense by which he himself was taken in, and in which lay the falsehood of this bastard conception, of this medley of aristocracy, generosity and art, but also its seductiveness, dangerous to people like my grandmother, to whom the less refined but more innocent prejudice of a nobleman who cared only about quarterings and took no thought for anything besides would have appeared too silly for words, whereas she was defenceless as soon as a thing presented itself under the externals of a mental superiority, so much so, indeed, that she regarded Princes as enviable above all other men because they were able to have a Labruyère, a Fénelon as their tutors. Outside the Grand Hotel the three Guermantes left us; they were going to luncheon with the Princesse de Luxembourg. While my grandmother was saying good-bye to Mme. de Villcparisis and Saint-Loup to my grandmother, M. de Charlus who, so far, had not uttered a word to me, drew back a little way from the group and, when he reached my side, said: ‘I shall be taking tea this evening after dinner in my aunt Villeparisis’s room; I hope that you will give me the pleasure of seeing you there, and your grandmother.’ With which he rejoined the Marquise.
德·夏吕斯先生赞扬了这些女人所具有的真正“高贵”的思想和心灵，他以双重意义玩弄这个词，他自己也被欺骗了，而这种混杂的混蛋观念的虚假性就在其中。贵族、慷慨和艺术，但也有它的诱惑力，对像我祖母这样的人来说是危险的，对他们来说，一个只关心住宿、不考虑其他任何事情的贵族的不那么优雅但更天真的偏见会显得太愚蠢了，无法用言语来形容，然而，一旦事情在精神上的优越性的外在表现出来时，她就毫无防备，事实上，她认为王子比所有其他男人都令人羡慕，因为他们能够有一个拉布鲁耶尔、一个费内隆作为他们的导师。出了大饭店，盖尔芒特三人就离开了我们。他们要去与卢森堡公主共进午餐。当我的祖母正在向夫人告别时。德·维尔帕里西斯和圣卢向我的祖母德·夏吕斯先生致意，德·夏吕斯先生到目前为止还没有对我说过一句话，他从人群中退了一点，当他走到我身边时，他说：“我将带着今天晚上晚饭后在我阿姨维尔帕里西斯的房间里喝茶；我希望你能让我很高兴在那里见到你和你的祖母。”说着他又回到了侯爵夫人身边。

Although it was Sunday there were no more carriages waiting outside the hotel now than at the beginning of the season. The solicitor’s wife, in particular, had decided that it was not worth the expense of hiring one every time simply because she was not going to the Cambremers’, and contented herself with staying in her room.
虽然是周日，但现在酒店外面等候的马车并不比季节开始时多。尤其是律师的妻子，她觉得不值得每次都花钱雇一个人，只是因为她不去康布雷默家，所以就满足于待在自己的房间里。

‘Is Mme. Blandais not well?’ her husband was asked. ‘We haven’t seen her all day.’
“是夫人吗？” “布兰代身体不舒服吗？”有人问她的丈夫。 “我们一整天都没有见到她。”

‘She has a slight headache; it’s the heat, there’s thunder coming. The least thing upsets her; but I expect you will see her this evening; I’ve told her she ought to come down. It can’t do her any harm.’
“她有轻微的头痛；天气炎热，雷声即将来临。一点小事都会让她心烦意乱；但我希望你今晚能见到她；我告诉她她应该下来。这不会对她造成任何伤害。

I had supposed that in thus inviting us to take tea with his aunt, whom I never doubted that he would have warned that we were coming, M. de Charlus wished to make amends for the impoliteness which he had shewn me during our walk that morning. But when, on our entering Mme. de Villeparisis’s room, I attempted to greet her nephew, even although I walked right round him, while in shrill accents he was telling a somewhat spiteful story about one of his relatives, I did not succeed in catching his eye; I decided to say ‘Good evening’ to him, and fairly loud, to warn him of my presence; but I realised that he had observed it, for before ever a word had passed my lips, just as I began to bow to him, I saw his two fingers stretched out for me to shake without his having turned to look at me or paused in his story. He had evidently seen me, without letting it appear that he had, and I noticed then that his eyes, which were never fixed on the person to whom he was speaking, strayed perpetually in all directions, like those of certain animals when they are frightened, or those of street hawkers who, while they are bawling their patter and displaying their illicit merchandise, keep a sharp look-out, though without turning their heads, on the different points of the horizon from any of which may appear, suddenly, the police. At the same time I was a little surprised to find that Mme. de Villeparisis, while glad to see us, did not seem to have been expecting us, and I was still more surprised to hear M. de Charlus say to my grandmother: ‘Ah! that was a capital idea of yours to come and pay us a visit; charming of them, is it not, my dear aunt?’ No doubt he had noticed his aunt’s surprise at our entry and thought, as a man accustomed to set the tone, to strike the right note, that it would be enough to transform that surprise into joy were he to shew that he himself felt it, that it was indeed the feeling which our arrival there ought to have prompted. In which he calculated wisely; for Mme. de Villeparisis, who had a high opinion of her nephew and knew how difficult it was to please him, appeared suddenly to have found new attractions in my grandmother and continued to make much of her. But I failed to understand how M. de Charlus could, in the space of a few hours, have forgotten the invitation—so curt but apparently so intentional, so premeditated—which he had addressed to me that same morning, or why he called a ‘capital idea’ on my grandmother’s part an idea that had been entirely his own. With a scruple of accuracy which I retained until I had reached the age at which I realised that it is not by asking him questions that one learns the truth of what another man has had in his mind, and that the risk of a misunderstanding which will probably pass unobserved is less than that which may come from a purblind insistence: ‘But, sir,’ I reminded him, ‘you remember, surely, that it was you who asked me if we would come in this evening?’ Not a sound, not a movement betrayed that M. de Charlus had so much as heard my question. Seeing which I repeated it, like a diplomat, or like young men after a misunderstanding who endeavour, with untiring and unrewarded zeal, to obtain an explanation which their adversary is determined not to give them. Still M. de Charlus answered me not a word. I seemed to see hovering upon his lips the smile of those who from a great height pass judgment on the characters and breeding of their inferiors.
我原以为，德·夏吕斯先生邀请我们和他姨妈一起喝茶，我毫不怀疑他会警告她我们要来，他是想弥补那天早上我们散步时对我表现出的无礼行为。 。但是，当我们进入夫人时。在德维尔帕里西斯的房间里，我试图向她的侄子打招呼，尽管我绕着他走，而他正在用尖锐的口音讲述一个关于他的一位亲戚的有点恶意的故事，但我没能成功引起他的注意；我决定对他说“晚上好”，而且声音相当大，以警告他我的存在。但我意识到他已经注意到了这一点，因为当我开始向他鞠躬时，我还没有说出任何一句话，我就看到他伸出两根手指让我摇晃，而他并没有转身看我，也没有停下来。他的故事。他显然已经看到了我，但并没有表现出他已经看到了，然后我注意到他的眼睛从来没有固定在与他说话的人身上，而是不断地向各个方向移动，就像某些动物受惊时的眼睛一样。 ，或者那些街头小贩，他们一边大声喊叫，一边展示他们的非法商品，一边保持着敏锐的警惕，尽管他们没有转过头，但地平线上的不同点可能会突然出现，警察。与此同时，我有点惊讶地发现Mme。德维尔帕里西斯虽然很高兴见到我们，但似乎并没有预料到我们，更令我惊讶的是，德夏吕斯先生对我的祖母说：“啊！你来拜访我们真是一个绝妙的主意；他们真迷人，不是吗，我亲爱的阿姨？”毫无疑问，他注意到了他姨妈对我们进来的惊讶，并认为，作为一个习惯于定调、发出正确音符的人，如果他表明自己也感受到了这一点，就足以将这种惊讶转化为喜悦。 ，这确实是我们到达那里应该引发的感觉。他在其中进行了明智的计算；为女士。德·维尔帕里西斯对她的侄子评价很高，也知道取悦他是多么困难，但她似乎突然发现了我祖母的新吸引力，并继续很看重她。但我不明白德·夏吕斯先生怎么会在几个小时之内忘记了当天早上他向我发出的邀请——如此简短，但显然是那么有意、如此有预谋——或者为什么他打电话给我。我祖母的“资本想法”完全是他自己的想法。我一直保持着对准确性的顾虑，直到我到了这样的年龄，我意识到，一个人不能通过问他问题来了解另一个人心里所想的真相，而且存在产生误解的风险。可能不为人知的情况比出于盲目坚持的情况要少：“但是，先生，”我提醒他，“你当然记得，是你问我我们今晚是否愿意来的？”没有声音，这并没有暴露出德·夏吕斯先生听到了我的问题。看到这一点，我重复了一遍，就像一个外交官，或者像一场误会之后的年轻人，他们以不知疲倦和没有回报的热情，努力获得他们的对手坚决不给他们的解释。德·夏吕斯先生仍然没有回答我一个字。 我似乎看到他的嘴角挂着微笑，那是一种居高临下地评判下属的品格和教养的人的笑容。

Since he refused to give any explanation, I tried to provide one for myself, but succeeded only in hesitating between several, none of which could be the right one. Perhaps he did not remember, or perhaps it was I who had failed to understand what he had said to me that morning.... More probably, in his pride, he did not wish to appear to have sought to attract people whom he despised, and preferred to cast upon them the responsibility for their intrusion. But then, if he despised us, why had he been so anxious that we should come, or rather that my grandmother should come, for of the two of us it was to her alone that he spoke that evening, and never once to me. Talking with the utmost animation to her, as also to Mme. de Villeparisis, hiding, so to speak, behind them, as though he were seated at the back of a theatre-box, he contented himself, turning from them every now and then the exploring gaze of his penetrating eyes, with fastening it on my face, with the same gravity, the same air of preoccupation as if my face had been a manuscript difficult to decipher.
由于他拒绝给出任何解释，我试图为自己提供一个解释，但只能在几个之间犹豫不决，没有一个是正确的。也许他不记得了，或者也许是我没能理解他那天早上对我说的话……更可能的是，出于他的骄傲，他不希望表现出试图吸引他所鄙视的人。 ，并宁愿将其入侵的责任归咎于他们。但是，如果他鄙视我们，为什么他那么急切地希望我们来，或者更确切地说，希望我的祖母来，因为那天晚上他只对我们两个人说话，从来没有对我说话。与她和夫人交谈时充满了极大的热情。可以说，德维尔帕里西斯躲在他们后面，仿佛坐在剧院包厢的后面，他满足于自己，时不时地把目光从他们身上转开，用他那双锐利的眼睛探寻着目光，紧紧地盯着我的眼睛。我的脸，同样严肃，同样全神贯注，仿佛我的脸是一本难以辨认的手稿。

No doubt, if he had not had those eyes, the face of M. de Charlus would have been similar to the faces of many good-looking men. And when Saint-Loup, speaking to me of various other Guermantes, on a later occasion, said: ‘Gad, they’ve not got that thoroughbred air, of being gentlemen to their finger-tips, that uncle Palamède has!’ confirming my suspicion that a thoroughbred air and aristocratic distinction were not anything mysterious and new but consisted in elements which I had recognised without difficulty and without receiving any particular impression from them, I was to feel that another of my illusions had been shattered. But that face, to which a faint layer of powder gave almost the appearance of a face on the stage, in vain might M. de Charlus hermetically seal its expression; his eyes were like two crevices, two loopholes which alone he had failed to stop, and through which, according to where one stood or sat in relation to him, one felt suddenly flash across one the glow of some internal engine which seemed to offer no reassurance even to him who without being altogether master of it must carry it inside him, at an unstable equilibrium and always on the point of explosion; and the circumspect and unceasingly restless expression of those eyes, with all the signs of exhaustion which, extending from them to a pair of dark rings quite low down upon his cheeks, were stamped on his face, however carefully he might compose and regulate it, made one think of some incognito, some disguise assumed by a powerful mam in danger, or merely by a dangerous—but tragic—person. I should have liked to divine what was this secret which other men did not carry in their breasts and which had already made M. de Charlus’s gaze so enigmatic to me when I had seen him that morning outside the Casino. But with what I now knew of his family I could no longer believe that they were the eyes of a thief, nor, after what I had heard of his conversation, could I say that they were those of a madman. If he was cold with me, while making himself agreeable to my grandmother, that arose perhaps not from a personal antipathy for, generally speaking, just as he was kindly disposed towards women, of whose faults he used to speak without, as a rule, any narrowing of the broadest tolerance, so he shewed with regard to men, and especially young men, a hatred so violent as to suggest that of certain extreme misogynists for women. Two or three ‘carpet-knights,’ relatives or intimate friends of Saint-Loup who happened to mention their names, M. de Charlus, with an almost ferocious expression, in sharp contrast to his usual coldness, called: ‘Little cads!’ I gathered that the particular fault which he found in the young men of the period was their extreme effeminacy. ‘They’re absolute women,’ he said with scorn. But what life would not have appeared effeminate beside that which he expected a man to lead, and never found energetic or virile enough? (He himself, when he walked across country, after long hours on the road would plunge his heated body into frozen streams.) He would not even allow a man to wear a single ring. But this profession of virility did not prevent his having also the most delicate sensibilities. When Mme. de Villeparisis asked him to describe to my grandmother some country house in which Mme. de Sévigné had stayed, adding that she could not help feeling that there was something rather ‘literary’ about that lady’s distress at being parted from ‘that tiresome Mme. de Grignan”:
毫无疑问，如果没有那双眼睛，德·夏吕斯先生的脸就会和许多英俊的男人的脸相似。后来，当圣卢向我谈到盖尔芒特的其他几个人时，他说：“哎呀，他们没有帕拉梅德叔叔所拥有的那种纯种的气质，指尖上的绅士气质！”这证实了我的看法。当我怀疑纯种的气质和贵族气质并不是什么神秘和新鲜的东西，而是由我毫不费力地认识到的元素组成的，并且没有从他们那里得到任何特殊的印象时，我感到我的另一个幻想已经破灭了。但那张脸上涂了一层淡淡的粉，几乎就像舞台上的一张脸，德·夏吕斯先生徒劳地把它的表情封闭起来。 ”即使对那些还没有完全掌握它的人来说，这也是一种保证，他必须将它带入体内，处于不稳定的平衡状态，并且总是处于爆炸的边缘；那双眼睛里的谨慎和不断焦躁的表情，以及所有疲惫的迹象，从它们延伸到脸颊下方的一对黑环，都印在了他的脸上，无论他多么小心地镇定和调节它，让人想起某种隐姓埋名、某种伪装，这些伪装是由一位处于危险之中的有权有势的母亲承担的，或者仅仅是由一个危险但悲剧性的人承担的。我真想知道这个其他人没有怀在胸中的秘密是什么，而这个秘密已经让M. 那天早上我在赌场外看到德·夏吕斯时，他的目光对我来说是如此神秘。但以我现在对他家人的了解，我不再相信他们是贼的眼睛，听了他的谈话后，我也不能说他们是疯子的眼睛。如果他对我冷淡，同时又对我的祖母表现得和蔼可亲，那也许不是出于个人的反感，一般来说，就像他对女人很友善一样，通常，他常常不谈她们的缺点，他对男性，特别是年轻男性表现出一种强烈的仇恨，以至于暗示某些极端厌恶女性的人对女性的仇恨。两三个“地毯骑士”，圣卢的亲戚或密友，碰巧提到了他们的名字，德·夏吕斯先生带着近乎凶猛的表情，与他平时的冷酷形成了鲜明的对比，喊道：“小流氓！”我推测他在那个时期的年轻人身上发现的一个特别的缺点是他们极端的女性化。 “她们绝对是女人，”他轻蔑地说。但是，除了他期望男人过的生活之外，还有什么生活不会显得女性化呢？ （他本人，当他徒步穿越乡村时，在路上长时间行走后，会将自己发热的身体投入冰冻的溪流中。） 他甚至不允许男人戴一枚戒指。但这种阳刚之气并没有妨碍他拥有最微妙的情感。当女士。德维尔帕里西斯请他向我祖母描述一下夫人所在的一座乡间别墅。德·塞维涅留下来了，她补充说，她不禁觉得那位女士因与“那个令人厌烦的夫人”分开而感到的痛苦有些“文学性”。 德·格里尼昂”：

‘On the contrary,’ he retorted, ‘I can think of nothing more true. Besides, it was a time in which feelings of that sort were thoroughly understood. The inhabitant of Lafontaine’s Monomotapa, running to see his friend who had appeared to him in a dream, and had looked sad, the pigeon finding that the greatest of evils is the absence of the other pigeon, seem to you perhaps, my dear aunt, as exaggerated as Mme. de Sévigné’s impatience for the moment when she will be alone with her daughter. It is so fine what she says when she leaves her: ‘This parting gives a pain to my soul which I feel like an ache in my body. In absence one is liberal with the hours. One anticipates a time for which one is longing.’’ My grandmother was in ecstasies at hearing the Letters thus spoken of, exactly as she would have spoken of them herself. She was astonished that a man could understand them so thoroughly. She found in M. de Charlus a delicacy, a sensibility that were quite feminine. We said to each other afterwards, when we were by ourselves and began to discuss him together, that he must have come under the strong influence of a woman, his mother, or in later life his daughter if he had any children. ‘A mistress, perhaps,’ I thought to myself, remembering the influence that Saint-Loup’s seemed to have had over him, which enabled me to realise the point to which men can be refined by the women with whom they live.
“恰恰相反，”他反驳道，“我想不出比这更真实的了。”而且，那种感觉在那个时代是被彻底理解的。拉方丹莫诺莫塔帕的居民跑去看他在梦中出现的朋友，他看上去很悲伤，鸽子发现最大的不幸就是另一只鸽子的缺席，也许在你看来，我亲爱的阿姨，和Mme一样夸张。德塞维涅对与女儿单独相处的那一刻感到不耐烦。当她离开她时，她说的话是如此美好：“这次分离给我的灵魂带来了痛苦，就像我的身体感到疼痛一样。”在缺席的情况下，人们可以自由支配时间。一个人期待着一个人所渴望的时刻。”我的祖母听到这样说起这些信件时感到欣喜若狂，就像她自己谈论这些信件一样。她很惊讶一个男人能如此透彻地理解它们。她在德·夏吕斯先生身上发现了一种微妙的感觉，一种非常女性化的情感。后来，当我们单独在一起并开始一起讨论他时，我们彼此说，如果他有孩子的话，他一定受到了一个女人、他的母亲或后来他的女儿的强烈影响。 “也许是个情妇，”我心里想，想起圣卢似乎对他产生的影响，这使我意识到男人可以通过与他们生活在一起的女人而变得优雅。

‘Once she was with her daughter, ^he had probably nothing to say to her,’ put in Mme. de Villeparisis.
“一旦她和女儿在一起，他可能就没什么可对她说的了，”夫人插话道。德维尔帕里西斯。

‘Most certainly she had: if it was only what she calls ‘things so slight that nobody else would notice them but you and me.’ And anyhow she was with her. And Labruyère tells us that that is everything. ‘To be with the people one loves, to speak to them, not to speak to them, it is all the same.’ He is right; that is the only form of happiness,’ added M. de Charlus in a mournful voice, ‘and that happiness—alas, life is so ill arranged that one very rarely tastes it; Mme. de Sévigné was after all less to be pitied than most of us. She spent a great part of her life with the person whom she loved.’
“她肯定注意到了：如果这只是她所说的‘事情如此微不足道，除了你和我之外没有人会注意到它们。’无论如何，她和她在一起。拉布鲁耶尔告诉我们，这就是一切。 “和所爱的人在一起，和他们说话，不和他们说话，都是一样的。”他是对的；他说得对。这是幸福的唯一形式，”德·夏吕斯先生用悲伤的声音补充道，“而这种幸福——唉，生活安排得如此糟糕，人们很少能体会到它；女士。毕竟，德塞维涅比我们大多数人都不那么值得怜悯。她一生中的大部分时间都是和她所爱的人一起度过的。

‘You forget that it was not ‘love’ in her case; the person was her daughter.’
“你忘记了，对她而言，这不是‘爱’；而是‘爱’。”这个人是她的女儿。

‘But what matters in life is not whom or what one loves,’ he went on, in a judicial, peremptory, almost a cutting tone; ‘it is the fact of loving. What Mme. de Sévigné felt for her daughter has a far better claim to rank with the passion that Racine described in Andromaque or Phèdre than the commonplace relations young Sévigné had with his mistresses. It’s the same with a mystic’s love for his God. The hard and fast lines with which we circumscribe love arise solely from our complete ignorance of life.’
“但生活中重要的不是一个人爱谁或爱什么，”他继续说道，语气是公正的、专横的，几乎是尖刻的。 ‘这就是爱的事实。什么女士。德·塞维涅认为，她的女儿比年轻的塞维涅与情妇之间的普通关系更符合拉辛在《安德洛马克》或《菲德尔》中描述的激情。这与神秘主义者对神的爱是一样的。我们对爱情的严格限制完全源于我们对生活的完全无知。

‘You think all that of Andromaque and Phèdre, do you?’ Saint-Loup asked his uncle in a faintly contemptuous tone. ‘There is more truth in a single tragedy of Racine than in all the dramatic works of Monsieur Victor Hugo,’ replied M. de Charlus. ‘People really are overwhelming,’ Saint-Loup murmured in my ear. ‘Preferring Racine to Victor, you may say what you like, it’s epoch-making!’ He was genuinely distressed by his uncle’s words, but the satisfaction of saying ‘you may say what you like’ and, better still, ‘epoch-making’ consoled him.
“你对安德洛马克和菲德尔的看法都是如此，是吗？”圣卢用略带轻蔑的语气问他的叔叔。 “拉辛的一部悲剧比维克多·雨果先生的所有戏剧作品更真实，”德·夏吕斯先生回答道。 “人们真是势不可挡。”圣卢在我耳边低声说道。 “比起维克多，你更喜欢拉辛，你爱说什么就说什么，这是划时代的！”他对叔叔的话感到由衷的心疼，但更满意的是，“你爱说什么就说什么”，更好的是，“划时代” ”安慰他。

In these reflexions upon the sadness of having to live apart from the person whom one loves (which were to lead my grandmother to say to me that Mme. de Villeparisis’s nephew understood certain things quite as well as his aunt, but in a different way, and moreover had something about him that set him far above the average clubman) M. de Charlus not only allowed a refinement of feeling to appear such as men rarely shew; his voice itself, like certain contralto voices which have not been properly trained to the right pitch, so that when they sing it sounds like a duet between a young man and a woman, singing alternately, mounted, when he expressed these delicate sentiments, to its higher notes, took on an unexpected sweetness and seemed to be embodying choirs of betrothed maidens, of sisters, who poured out the treasures of their love. But the bevy of young girls, whom M. de Charlus in his horror of every kind of effeminacy would have been so distressed to learn that he gave the impression of sheltering thus within his voice, did not confine themselves to the interpretation, the modulation of scraps of sentiment. Often while M. de Charlus was talking one could hear their laughter, shrill, fresh laughter of school-girls or coquettes quizzing their partners with all the archness of clever tongues and pretty wits.
在这些对不得不与所爱的人分开生活的悲伤的反思中（这导致我的祖母对我说，德·维尔帕里西斯夫人的侄子对某些事情的理解和他的姨妈一样好，但方式不同，德·夏吕斯先生不仅表现出男人很少表现出的精致情感，而且还具有某种使他远远高于一般俱乐部成员的特质。他的声音本身就像某些女低音，没有经过适当的音调训练，所以当他们唱歌时，听起来就像是一个年轻男女之间的二重唱，交替唱歌，当他表达这些微妙的情感时，它的高音呈现出意想不到的甜蜜，似乎体现了未婚少女和姐妹的合唱团，她们倾诉着她们的爱情宝藏。但是，德·夏吕斯先生对各种女性气质感到恐惧，如果得知他在声音中给人一种庇护的印象，德·夏吕斯先生会非常痛苦地对待这群年轻女孩，她们并不局限于解释和调制情感的碎片。德·夏吕斯先生说话的时候，人们经常能听到他们的笑声，那是女学生的尖锐而清新的笑声，或者是卖弄风情的女人用狡猾的舌头和俏皮的智慧向她们的伴侣提问的笑声。

He told us how a house that had belonged to his family, in which Marie Antoinette had slept, with a park laid out by Lenôtre, was now in the hands of the Israels, the wealthy financiers, who had bought it. ‘Israel—at least that is the name these people go by, which seems to me a generic, a racial term rather than a proper name. One cannot tell; possibly people of that sort do not have names, and are designated only by the collective title of the tribe to which they belong. It is of no importance! But fancy, after being a home of the Guermantes, to belong to Israels!!!’ His voice rose. ‘It reminds me of a room in the Château of Blois where the caretaker who was shewing me over said: ‘This is where Mary Stuart used to say her prayers; I use it to keep my brooms in.’ Naturally I wish to know nothing more of this house that has let itself be dishonoured, any more than of my cousin Clara de Chimay after she left her husband. But I keep a photograph of the house, when it was still unspoiled, just as I keep one of the Princess before her large eyes had learned to gaze on anyone but my cousin. A photograph acquires something of the dignity which it ordinarily lacks when it ceases to be a reproduction of reality and shews us things that no longer exist. I could give you a copy, since you are interested in that style of architecture,’ he said to my grandmother. At that moment, noticing that the embroidered handkerchief which he had in his pocket was shewing some coloured threads, he thrust it sharply down out of sight with the scandalised air of a prudish but far from innocent lady concealing attractions which, by an excess of scrupulosity, she regards as indecent. ‘Would you believe,’ he went on, ‘that the first thing the creatures did was to destroy Lenôtre’s park, which is as bad as slashing a picture by Poussin? For that alone, these Israels ought to be in prison. It is true,’ he added with a smile, after a moment’s silence, ‘that there are probably plenty of other reasons why they should be there! In any case, you can imagine the effect, with that architecture behind it, of an English garden.’
他告诉我们，一栋曾经属于他家族的房子，玛丽·安托瓦内特曾经睡过，还有一个由勒诺特设计的公园，现在却落入了买下它的富有的金融家以色列人的手中。 “以色列——至少这是这些人所用的名字，在我看来，这是一个通用的种族术语，而不是一个专有名称。一个人无法分辨；这类人可能没有名字，只能通过他们所属部落的集体头衔来指定。这不重要！但想象一下，在成为盖尔芒特家族之后，属于以色列人！！！”他的声音提高了。 “这让我想起了布卢瓦城堡的一个房间，带我参观的看门人说：‘这是玛丽·斯图尔特过去常做祈祷的地方；我用它来存放我的扫帚。”自然，我不想再了解这座让自己蒙羞的房子，就像我的表弟克拉拉·德·奇梅离开丈夫后一样。但我保留了一张房子的照片，当时它还没有被破坏，就像我保留了一张公主的照片，在她的大眼睛学会凝视除了我表弟之外的任何人之前。当一张照片不再是现实的再现并向我们展示不再存在的事物时，它就获得了它通常所缺乏的尊严。我可以给你一份副本，因为你对那种建筑风格感兴趣，”他对我的祖母说。就在这时，他注意到口袋里的绣花手帕上露出了一些彩线，他猛地把它推到看不见的地方，带着一种正经但远非天真无邪的女士的令人反感的神情，隐藏着一种过分谨慎的吸引力。 ，她认为是不雅的。 “你相信吗，”他继续说道，“这些生物所做的第一件事就是摧毁了勒诺特的公园，这就像砍掉普桑的一幅画一样糟糕吗？”仅此一点，这些以色列人就应该入狱。确实如此，”沉默片刻后，他微笑着补充道，“他们应该在那里的原因可能还有很多！无论如何，您可以想象在该建筑背后的英式花园的效果。’

‘But the house is in the same style as the Petit Trianon,’ said Mme. de Villeparisis, ‘and Marie-Antoinette had an English garden laid out there.’
“但这所房子的风格与小特里亚农宫相同，”夫人说。 de Villeparisis，“玛丽·安托瓦内特在那里建了一座英式花园。”

‘Which, all the same, ruins Gabriel’s front,’ replied M. de Charlus. ‘Obviously, it would be an act of vandalism now to destroy the Hameau. But whatever may be the spirit of the age, I doubt, all the same, whether, in that respect, a whim of Mme. Israel has the same importance as the memory of the Queen.’
“尽管如此，这还是毁掉了加百列的前线。”德·夏吕斯先生回答道。 “显然，现在摧毁哈莫将是一种破坏行为。但无论时代精神如何，我仍然怀疑在这方面是否是夫人的心血来潮。以色列与女王的记忆具有同样的重要性。

Meanwhile my grandmother had been making signs to me to go up to bed, in spite of the urgent appeals of Saint-Loup who, to my utter confusion, had alluded in front of M. de Charlus to the depression that used often to come upon me at night before I went to sleep, which his uncle must regard as betokening a sad want of virility. I lingered a few moments still, then went upstairs, and was greatly surprised when, a little later, having heard a knock at my bedroom door and asked who was there, I heard the voice of M. de Charlus saying dryly:
与此同时，我的祖母一直在示意我上床睡觉，尽管圣卢的紧急呼吁使我完全困惑，他在德·夏吕斯先生面前暗示了过去经常出现的抑郁症。晚上睡觉前，他叔叔肯定认为这预示着我缺乏男子气概。我又逗留了一会儿，然后上楼，过了一会儿，我听到有人敲我的卧室门，我问谁在那儿，我听到德·夏吕斯先生干巴巴地说：

‘It is Charlus. May I come in, sir? Sir,’ he began again in the same tone as soon as he had shut the door, ‘my nephew was saying just now that you were apt to be worried at night before going to sleep, and also that you were an admirer of Bergotte’s books. As I had one here in my luggage which you probably do not know, I have brought it to help you to while away these moments in which you are not comfortable.’
“是查勒斯。”先生，我可以进来吗？先生，”关上门后，他又用同样的语气说道，“我侄子刚才说，您晚上睡觉前容易忧心忡忡，而且您是贝戈特书籍的崇拜者。” 。因为我的行李里有一个你可能不知道的东西，所以我带它来帮助你消磨这些你不舒服的时刻。

I thanked M. de Charlus with some warmth and told him that, on the contrary, I had been afraid that what Saint-Loup had said to him about my discomfort when night came would have made me appear in his eyes more stupid even than I was.
我热情地向德·夏吕斯先生表示感谢，并告诉他，相反，我担心圣卢对他所说的关于我在夜幕降临时感到不舒服的话，会让我在他眼中显得比我还要愚蠢。曾是。

‘No; why?’ he answered, in a gentler voice. ‘You have not, perhaps, any personal merit; so few of us have! But for a time at least you have youth, and that is always a charm. Besides, sir, the greatest folly of all is to laugh at or to condemn in others what one does not happen oneself to feel. I love the night, and you tell me that you are afraid of it. I love the scent of roses, and I have a friend whom it throws into a fever. Do you suppose that I think, for that reason, that he is inferior to me? I try to understand everything and I take care to condemn nothing. After all, you must not be too sorry for yourself; I do not say that these moods of depression are not painful, I know that one can be made to suffer by things which the world would not understand. But at least you have placed your affection wisely, in your grandmother. You see a great deal of her. And besides, that is a legitimate affection, I mean one that is repaid. There are so many of which one cannot say that.’
'不;为什么？”他用更温和的声音回答。 ‘也许你没有任何个人优点；我们很少有人拥有！但至少有一段时间你拥有青春，这总是一种魅力。此外，先生，最大的愚蠢就是嘲笑或谴责别人自己没有感受到的事情。我喜欢夜晚，而你却告诉我你害怕夜晚。我喜欢玫瑰的香味，我有一个朋友，它让我发烧了。你认为我因此就认为他不如我吗？我试图理解一切，并且小心翼翼地不谴责任何事情。毕竟，你不能太对不起自己；我并不是说这些抑郁情绪并不痛苦，我知道一个人可能会因为世人无法理解的事情而遭受痛苦。但至少你明智地把你的感情寄托在你的祖母身上。你看到她很多。而且，这是一种合法的感情，我指的是一种得到回报的感情。有太多的人无法一一说出来。

He began walking up and down the room, looking at one thing, taking up another. I had the impression that he had something to tell me, and could not find the right words to express it.
他开始在房间里走来走去，看着一件事，拿起另一件事。我感觉他有话要告诉我，但却找不到合适的词语来表达。

‘I have another volume of Bergotte here; I will fetch it for you,’ he went on, and rang the bell. Presently a page came. ‘Go and find me your head waiter. He is the only person here who is capable of obeying an order intelligently,’ said M. de Charlus stiffly. ‘Monsieur Aimé, sir?’ asked the page. ‘I cannot tell you his name; yes, I remember now, I did hear him called Aimé. Run along, I am in a hurry.’ ‘He won’t be a minute, sir, I saw him downstairs just now,’ said the page, anxious to appear efficient. There was an interval of silence. The page returned. ‘Sir, M. Aimé has gone to bed. But I can take your message.’ ‘No, you have only to get him out of bed.’ ‘But I can’t do that, sir; he doesn’t sleep here.’ ‘Then you can leave us alone.’ ‘But, sir,’ I said when the page had gone, ‘you are too kind; one volume of Bergotte will be quite enough.’ ‘That is just what I was thinking.’ M. de Charlus walked up and down the room. Several minutes passed in this way, then after a prolonged hesitation, and several false starts, he swung sharply round and, his voice once more stinging, flung at me: ‘Good night, sir!’ and left the room. After all the lofty sentiments which I had heard him express that evening, next day, which was the day of his departure, on the beach, before noon, when I was on my way down to bathe, and M. de Charlus had come across to tell me that my grandmother was waiting for me to join her as soon as I left the water, I was greatly surprised to hear him say, pinching my neck as he spoke, with a familiarity and a laugh that were frankly vulgar:
“我这里还有另一卷贝戈特；我去给你拿来，”他继续说道，并按响了门铃。不久，传来了一个页面。 “去给我找一下你的领班。他是这里唯一能够明智地服从命令的人。”德·夏吕斯先生生硬地说。 “艾梅先生，先生？”侍者问道。 “我不能告诉你他的名字；是的，我现在想起来了，我确实听到他叫艾梅。 “他一会儿就跑，先生，我刚才在楼下看到他了，”侍者说道，急于表现得高效。一阵沉默。页面返回。 “先生，艾梅先生已经上床睡觉了。” “不，你只要把他从床上弄起来就可以了。” “那么你就别管我们了。” “但是，先生，”当侍者走完后，我说道，“你太仁慈了；你太客气了。” “我就是这么想的。”德·夏吕斯先生在房间里走来走去。就这样过了几分钟，经过长时间的犹豫和几次错误的开始，他猛地转过身来，他的声音再次刺痛，冲我说：“晚安，先生！”然后离开了房间。那天晚上我听他表达了所有崇高的情感之后，第二天，也就是他离开的那天，中午之前，在海滩上，当我下楼去洗澡的时候，德·夏吕斯先生遇到了告诉我，我一出水，祖母就在等我去和她会合，我大吃一惊，他一边说，一边掐着我的脖子，语气里带着熟悉的笑声，坦率地说是粗俗的：

‘But he doesn’t give a damn for his old grandmother, does he, eh? Little rascal!’
“但他根本不在乎他的老祖母，不是吗？”小流氓！

‘What, sir! I adore her!’
‘什么，先生！我崇拜她！'

‘Sir,’ he said, stepping back a pace, and with a glacial air, ‘you are still young; you should profit by your youth to learn two things; first, to refrain from expressing sentiments that are too natural not to be taken for granted; and secondly not to dash into speech to reply to things that are said to you before you have penetrated their meaning. If you had taken this precaution a moment ago you would have saved yourself the appearance of speaking at cross-purposes like a deaf man, thereby adding a second absurdity to that of having anchors embroidered on your bathing-dress. I have lent you a book by Bergotte which I require. See that it is brought to me within the next hour by that head waiter with the silly and inappropriate name, who, I suppose, is not in bed at this time of day. You make me see that I was premature in speaking to you last night of the charms of youth; I should have done you a better service had I pointed out to you its thoughtlessness, its inconsequence, and its want of comprehension. I hope, sir, that this little douche will be no less salutary to you than your bathe. But don’t let me keep you standing: you may catch cold. Good day, sir.’
“先生，”他后退了一步，语气冰冷，“您还年轻；您还很年轻。”你应该利用你的青春来学习两件事；首先，不要表达过于自然而不能被视为理所当然的情感；其次，在你还没领会别人对你说的话的含义之前，不要急于开口回答。如果你刚才采取了这种预防措施，你就不会像聋子一样说三道四，从而给你的泳衣上绣上船锚增添了第二个荒谬。我借给你一本我需要的贝戈特的书。请注意，在接下来的一个小时内，那位名字愚蠢且不恰当的侍者领班就会把它带给我，我想他在一天中的这个时候不在床上。你让我明白我昨晚对你谈论青春的魅力还为时过早；如果我向你指出它的轻率、不合逻辑和缺乏理解力，我本可以为你提供更好的服务。先生，我希望这个小冲洗器对您的益处不亚于您的沐浴。但别让我让你站着：你可能会感冒。美好的一天，先生。

No doubt he was sorry afterwards for this speech, for some time later I received—in a morocco binding on the front of which was inlaid a panel of tooled leather representing in demi-relief a spray of forget-me-nots—the book which he had lent me, and I had sent back to him, not by Aimé who was apparently ‘off duty,’ but by the lift-boy.
毫无疑问，他事后对这次演讲感到抱歉，一段时间后，我收到了这本书——摩洛哥装订，正面镶嵌着一块加工皮革，半浮雕上刻着勿忘我喷雾——他借给了我，我又送还给他，不是由显然“下班”的艾梅，而是由电梯男孩送还给他。

M. de Charlus having gone, Robert and I were free at last to dine with Bloch. And I realised during this little party that the stories too readily admitted by our friend as funny were favourite stories of M. Bloch senior, and that the son’s ‘really remarkable person’ was always one of his father’s friends whom he had so classified. There are a certain number of people whom we admire in our boyhood, a father with better brains than the rest of the family, a teacher who acquires credit in our eyes from the philosophy he reveals to us, a schoolfellow more advanced than we are (which was what Bloch had been to me), who despises the Musset of the Espoir en Dieu when we still admire it, and when we have reached Le-conte or Claudel will be in ecstasies only over:
德·夏吕斯先生走了之后，罗伯特和我终于有空和布洛赫一起吃饭了。在这个小聚会上，我意识到，那些被我们的朋友轻易承认为有趣的故事是老布洛赫先生最喜欢的故事，而儿子的“真正了不起的人”始终是他父亲的朋友之一，他对他如此分类。在我们的童年里，有一些人是我们崇拜的人，一个比家里其他人更有头脑的父亲，一个因向我们揭示的哲学而在我们眼中赢得信誉的老师，一个比我们更先进的同学（布洛赫对我来说就是这样），当我们仍然钦佩缪塞的《上帝的希望》时，他就鄙视它，而当我们到达勒孔特或克洛代尔时，我们只会欣喜若狂：

A Saint-Biaise, à la Zuecca
苏埃卡的圣比亚斯

Vous étiez, vous étiez bien aise:
你好，你好：

with which he will include:
他将在其中包括：

Padoue est un fort bel endroit
帕杜埃是贝尔恩德鲁伊特堡

Où de très grands docteurs en droit....
Mais j’aime mieux la polenta....
Mais j'aime mieux la polenta....

Passe dans mon domino noir
黑色多米诺骨牌经过

 La Toppatelle
拉托帕泰尔

and of all the Nuits will remember only:
在所有的夜里，只会记住：

Au Havre, devant l’Atlantique
奥阿弗尔，大西洋地区

A Venise, à l’affreux Lido.
威尼斯丽都。

Où vient sur l’herbe d’un tombeau
汤博香草上的风景

Mourir la pâle Adriatique.
Mourir la pâle Adriatique。

So, whenever we confidently admire anyone, we collect from him, we quote with admiration sayings vastly inferior to the sort which, left to our own judgment, we would sternly reject, just as the writer of a novel puts into it, on the pretext that they are true, things which people have actually said, which in the living context are like a dead weight, form the dull part of the work. Saint-Simon’s portraits composed by himself (and very likely without his admiring them himself) are admirable, whereas what he cites as the charming wit of his clever friends is frankly dull where it has not become meaningless. He would have scorned to invent what he reports as so pointed or so coloured when said by Mme. Cornuel or Louis XIV, a point which is to be remarked also in many other writers, and is capable of various interpretations, of which it is enough to note but one for the present: namely, that in the state of mind in which we ‘observe’ we are a long way below the level to which we rise when we create.
因此，每当我们自信地钦佩某个人时，我们都会从他那里收集、引用他的钦佩名言，这些名言远不如我们自己判断的那样，我们会严厉拒绝，就像小说作者以借口所写的那样。人们实际上说过的话，在生活环境中就像沉重的负担，构成了作品的乏味部分。圣西门自己创作的肖像画（很可能他本人并没有欣赏它们）令人钦佩，而他所引用的聪明朋友的迷人智慧坦率地说是乏味的，但并没有变得毫无意义。他会鄙视地发明他所说的当夫人所说的如此尖锐或如此色彩的东西。科努埃尔或路易十四的观点，在许多其他作家中也值得注意，并且能够有多种解释，其中目前仅指出一种就足够了：即，在我们“处于其中的精神状态”中。观察一下，我们远远低于我们创造时所达到的水平。

There was, then, embedded in my friend Bloch a father Bloch who lagged forty years behind his son, told impossible stories and laughed as loudly at them from the heart of my friend as did’ the separate, visible and authentic father Bloch, since to the laugh which the latter emitted, not without several times repeating the last word so that his public might taste the full flavour of the story, was added the braying laugh with which the son never failed, at table, to greet his father’s anecdotes. Thus it came about that after saying the most intelligent things young Bloch, to indicate the portion that he had inherited from his family, would tell us for the thirtieth time some of the gems which father Bloch brought out only (with his swallow-tail coat) on the solemn occasions on which young Bloch brought someone to the house on whom it was worth while making an impression; one of his masters, a ‘chum’ who had taken all the prizes, or, this evening, Saint-Loup and myself. For instance: ‘A military critic of great insight, who had brilliantly worked out, supporting them with proofs, the reasons for which, in the Russo-Japanese war, the Japanese must inevitably be beaten and the Russians victorious,’ or else: ‘He is an eminent gentleman who passes for a great financier in political circles and for a great politician among financiers.’ These stories were interchangeable with one about Baron de Rothschild and one about Sir Rufus Israels, who were brought into the conversation in an equivocal manner which might let it be supposed that M. Bloch knew them personally.
那么，在我朋友布洛赫的心里，就有一位布洛赫父亲，他落后于他的儿子四十岁，讲述着不可能的故事，并从我朋友的心里大声嘲笑它们，就像那个独立的、可见的、真实的父亲布洛赫一样，从那时起，后者发出的笑声，多次重复了最后一个词，以便他的公众能够品尝到故事的全部味道，再加上儿子在餐桌上向他父亲的轶事致敬时从未失败过的刺耳的笑声。因此，年轻的布洛赫说了最聪明的事情后，为了表明他从家人那里继承的那部分，第三十次告诉我们一些父亲布洛赫只带出来的宝石（带着他的燕尾外套） ）在年轻的布洛赫带某人到家里来的庄严场合，并给他留下了深刻的印象；他的一位老师，一位获得了所有奖项的“密友”，或者，今晚，圣卢和我自己。例如：“一位具有伟大洞察力的军事评论家，他出色地提出了在日俄战争中日本人必然被击败而俄罗斯人获胜的原因，并用证据支持他们，”或者：“他是一位杰出的绅士，在政界被认为是一位伟大的金融家，在金融家中也被认为是一位伟大的政治家。”这些故事可以与关于罗斯柴尔德男爵的故事和关于鲁弗斯·伊斯雷尔斯爵士的故事互换，他们以一种模棱两可的方式进入了谈话。这可能会让人认为布洛赫先生私下认识他们。

I was myself taken in, and from the way in which M. Bloch spoke of Bergotte I assumed that he too was an old friend. But with him as with all famous people, M. Bloch knew them only ‘without actually knowing them,’ from having seen them at a distance in the theatre or in the street. He imagined, moreover, that his appearance, his name, his personality were not unknown to them, and that when they caught sight of him they had often to repress a stealthy inclination to bow. People in society, because they know men of talent, original characters, and have them to dine in their houses, do not on that account understand them any better. But when one has lived to some extent in society, the silliness of its inhabitants makes one too anxious to live, suppose too high a standard of intelligence in the obscure circles in which people know only ‘without actually knowing.’ I was to discover this when I introduced the topic of Bergotte. M. Bloch was not the only one who was a social success at home. My friend was even more so with his sisters, whom he continually questioned in a hectoring tone, burying his face in his plate, all of which made them laugh until they cried. They had adopted their brother’s language, and spoke it fluently, as if it had been obligatory and the only form of speech that people of intelligence might use. When we arrived, the eldest sister said to one of the younger ones: ‘Go, tell our sage father and our venerable mother!’ ‘Puppies,’ said Bloch, ‘I present to you the cavalier Saint-Loup, hurler of javelins, who is come for a few days from Doncières to the dwellings of polished stone, fruitful in horses.’ And, since he was as vulgar as he was literary, his speech ended as a rule in some pleasantry of a less Homeric kind: ‘See, draw closer your pepla with fair clasps, what is all that that I see? Does your mother know you’re out?’ And the Misses Bloch subsided in a tempest of laughter. I told their brother how much pleasure he had given me by recommending me to read Bergotte, whose books I had loved.
我自己也被骗了，从布洛赫先生谈到贝戈特的方式来看，我猜想他也是我的老朋友了。但与所有名人一样，布洛赫先生只是“在不真正认识他们的情况下”通过在剧院或街上远远地看到他们而认识他们。此外，他还想象，他们对他的外貌、他的名字、他的性格并不陌生，当他们看到他时，常常不得不抑制住偷偷鞠躬的倾向。社会上的人，因为认识有才华、有个性的人，并请他们到家里吃饭，并不因此而更了解他们。但是，当一个人在社会中生活到一定程度时，其居民的愚蠢会使人过于焦虑地生活，假设在人们只知道“但实际上不知道”的晦涩圈子中的智力水平太高。我要发现这一点当我介绍贝戈特的话题时。布洛赫先生并不是唯一一个在国内取得社交成功的人。我的朋友对他的姐妹们更是如此，他不断用恐吓的语气质问她们，把脸埋在盘子里，这一切都让她们笑到哭。他们采用了兄弟的语言，并且说得很流利，就好像这是必须的，也是有智慧的人可能使用的唯一语言形式。当我们到达时，姐姐对其中一个妹妹说：“去告诉我们圣父和可敬的母亲吧！”“小狗们，”布洛赫说，“我向你们介绍标枪投手圣卢骑士，他从东西埃尔来到抛光石头的住所几天，马匹硕果累累。”而且，由于他既粗俗又文学，他的演讲通常以某种不那么荷马式的幽默结束：“看，用漂亮的扣子把你的佩普拉拉近一些，我看到的是什么？你妈妈知道你出去了吗？”布洛赫小姐们爆发出阵阵笑声，平息下来。我告诉他们的兄弟，他推荐我读贝戈特的书，给了我多大的快乐，我很喜欢他的书。

M. Bloch senior, who knew Bergotte only by sight, and Bergotte’s life only from what was common gossip, had a manner quite as indirect of making the acquaintance of his books, by the help of criticisms that were apparently literary. He lived in the world of ‘very nearlies,’ where people salute the empty air and arrive at wrong judgments. Inexactitude, incompetence do not modify their assurance; quite the contrary. It is the propitious miracle of self-esteem that, since few of us are in a position to enjoy the society of distinguished people, or to form intellectual friendships, those to whom they are denied still believe themselves to be the best endowed of men, because the optics of our social perspective make every grade of society seem the best to him who occupies it, and beholds as less favoured than himself, less fortunate and therefore to be pitied, the greater men whom he names and calumniates without knowing, judges and—despises without understanding them. Even in cases where the multiplication of his modest personal advantages by his self-esteem would not suffice to assure a man the dose of happiness, superior to that accorded to others, which is essential to him, envy is always there to make up the balance. It is true that if envy finds expression in scornful phrases, we must translate ‘I have no wish to know him’ by ‘I have no means of knowing him.’ That is the intellectual sense. But the emotional sense is indeed, ‘I have no wish to know him.’ The speaker knows that it is not true, but he does not, all the same, say it simply to deceive; he says it because it is what he feels, and that is sufficient to bridge the gulf between them, that is to say to make him happy.
老布洛赫先生只是通过视觉了解贝戈特，而贝戈特的生活也只是通过普通的八卦来了解，他也通过表面上是文学性的批评来间接了解他的书。他生活在“非常接近”的世界里，人们向空虚致敬，做出错误的判断。不准确、无能并不会改变他们的保证；恰恰相反。这是自尊的幸运奇迹，因为我们中很少有人能够享受与杰出人士的交往，或形成知识分子的友谊，而那些被拒绝的人仍然相信自己是最有天赋的人，因为我们社会视角的光学使社会的每一个阶层对他来说都是最好的，他认为那些比他自己更不受欢迎、不幸的人因此值得怜悯，他在不知情的情况下点名和诽谤那些更伟大的人，对他们进行评判和批评。 ——鄙视而不理解他们。即使在某些情况下，他的微不足道的个人优势与他的自尊相乘，不足以保证一个人获得比别人更重要的幸福，而嫉妒对他来说是至关重要的，但嫉妒总是可以弥补这一平衡。 。确实，如果嫉妒以轻蔑的措辞表达出来，我们必须将“我不想认识他”翻译成“我没有办法认识他”。这就是理智意义上的。但情感上的感觉确实是：“我不想认识他。”说话的人知道这不是真的，但他说这句话并不是为了欺骗；而是为了欺骗。他这么说是因为这是他的感受，而这足以弥合他们之间的鸿沟，也就是说让他快乐。

Self-centredness thus enabling every human being to see the universe spread out in a descending scale beneath himself who is its lord, M. Bloch afforded himself the luxury of being pitiless when in the morning, as he drank his chocolate, seeing Bergotte’s signature at the foot of an article in the newspaper which he had scarcely opened, he disdainfully granted the writer an audience soon cut short, pronounced sentence upon him, and gave himself the comforting pleasure of repeating after every mouthful of the scalding brew: ‘That fellow Bergotte has become unreadable. My word, what a bore the creature can be. I really must stop my subscription. How involved it all is, bread and butter nonsense!’ And he helped himself to another slice.
自我中心使每个人都能够看到宇宙在他自己的统治者之下以递减的方式展开，布洛赫先生在早上喝着巧克力时看到了贝戈特的签名，这给了自己一种无情的奢侈。他刚打开报纸上一篇文章的脚，就轻蔑地向这位作家致意，很快就打断了对他的判决，并在每一口滚烫的啤酒后重复一遍，给自己带来安慰的乐趣：“那个贝戈特家伙已变得不可读。我的话，这个生物是多么令人厌烦啊。我真的必须停止订阅。这一切是多么复杂，面包和黄油都是胡说八道！”然后他又拿了一片。

This illusory importance of M. Bloch senior did, moreover, extend some little way beyond the radius of his own perceptions. In the first place his children regarded him as a superior person. Children have always a tendency either to depreciate or to exalt their parents, and to a good son his father is always the best of fathers, quite apart from any objective reason there may be for admiring him. Now, such reasons were not altogether lacking in the case of M. Bloch, who was an educated man, shrewd, affectionate towards his family. In his most intimate circle they were all the more proud of him because, if, in ‘society,’ people are judged by a standard (which is incidentally absurd) and according to false but fixed rules, by comparison with the aggregate of all the other fashionable people, in the subdivisions of middle-class life, on the other hand, the dinners, the family parties all turn upon certain people who are pronounced good company, amusing, and who in ‘society’ would not survive a second evening. Moreover in such an environment where the artificial values of the aristocracy do not exist, their place is taken by distinctions even more stupid. Thus it was that in his family circle, and even among the remotest branches of the tree, an alleged similarity in his way of wearing his moustache and in the bridge of his nose led to M. Bloch’s being called ‘the Due d’Aumale’s double.’ (In the world of club pages, the one who wears his cap on one side and his jacket tightly buttoned, so as to give himself the appearance, he imagines, of a foreign officer, is he not also a personage of a sort to his comrades?)
此外，老布洛赫先生这种虚幻的重要性确实超出了他自己的认知范围。首先，他的孩子们把他视为一个高人一等的人。孩子总是倾向于贬低或尊崇他们的父母，而对于一个好儿子来说，他的父亲永远是最好的父亲，这与钦佩他的客观原因无关。布洛赫先生是一个受过教育、精明、热爱家庭的人，这样的理由并不完全缺乏。在他最亲密的圈子里，他们更加为他感到骄傲，因为如果在“社会”中，人们是根据一个标准（这顺便说来是荒谬的）和根据错误但固定的规则来判断的，与所有社会的总和相比。另一方面，在中产阶级生活的其他时尚人士中，晚宴、家庭聚会都转向某些被认为是好伙伴、有趣的人，而这些人在“社会”中将无法生存第二个晚上。此外，在这样一个不存在贵族的人为价值观的环境中，他们的位置被更愚蠢的区别所取代。因此，在他的家庭圈子里，甚至在这棵树的最遥远的树枝上，他的胡子和鼻梁的方式据称有相似之处，导致布洛赫先生被称为“奥马勒公爵的替身”。 （在俱乐部页面的世界里，一个人把帽子戴在一侧，把夹克扣紧，以便让自己看起来像一位外国军官，他不也是一种人物吗？给他的战友？）

The resemblance was the faintest, but you would have said that it conferred a title. When he was mentioned, it would always be: ‘Bloch? Which one? The Due d’Aumale?’ as people say ‘Princesse Murât? Which one? The Queen (of Naples)?’ And there were certain other minute marks which combined to give him, in the eyes of the cousinhood, an acknowledged claim to distinction. Not going the length of having a carriage of his own, M. Bloch used on special occasions to hire an open victoria with a pair of horses from the Company, and would drive through the Bois de Boulogne, his body sprawling limply from side to side, two fingers pressed to his brow, other two supporting his chin, and if people who did not know him concluded that he was an ‘old nuisance,’ they were all convinced, in the family, that for smartness Uncle Solomon could have taught Gramont-Caderousse a thing or two. He was one of those people who when they die, because for years they have shared a table in a restaurant on the boulevard with its news-editor, are described as ‘well known Paris figures’ in the social column of the Radical. M. Bloch told Saint-Loup and me that Bergotte knew so well why he, M. Bloch, always cut him that as soon as he caught sight of him, at the theatre or in the club, he avoided his eye. Saint-Loup blushed, for it had occurred to him that this club could not be the Jockey, of which his father had been chairman. On the other hand it must be a fairly exclusive club, for M. Bloch had said that Bergotte would never have got into it if he had come up now. So it was not without the fear that he might be ‘underrating his adversary’ that Saint-Loup asked whether the club in question were the Rue Royale, which was considered ‘lowering’ by his own family, and to which he knew that certain Israelites had been admitted. ‘No,’ replied M. Bloch in a tone at once careless, proud and ashamed, ‘it is a small club, but far more pleasant than a big one, the Ganaches. We’re very strict there, don’t you know.’ ‘Isn’t Sir Rufus Israels the chairman?’ Bloch junior asked his father, so as to give him the opportunity for a glorious lie, never suspecting that the financier had not the same eminence in Saint-Loup’s eyes as in his. The fact of the matter was that the Ganaches club boasted not Sir Rufus Israels but one of his staff. But as this man was on the best of terms with his employer, he had at his disposal a stock of the financier’s cards, and would give one to M. Bloch whenever he wished to travel on a line of which Sir Rufus was a director, the result of which was that old Bloch would say: ‘I’m just going round to the Club to ask Sir Rufus for a line to the Company.’ And the card enabled him to dazzle the guards on the trains. The Misses Bloch were more interested in Bergotte and, reverting to him rather than pursue the subject of the Ganaches, the youngest asked her brother, in the most serious tone imaginable, for she believed that there existed in the world, for the designation of men of talent, no other terms than those which he was in the habit of using: ‘Is he really an amazing good egg, this Bergotte? Is he in the category of the great lads, good eggs like Villiers and Catullus?’ ‘I’ve met him several times at dress rehearsals,’ said M. Nissim Bernard. ‘He is an uncouth creature, a sort of Schlemihl.’ There was nothing very serious in this allusion to Chamisso’s story but the epithet ‘Schlemihl’ formed part of that dialect, half-German, half-Jewish, the use of which delighted M. Bloch in the family circle, but struck him as vulgar and out of place before strangers. And so he cast a reproving glance at his uncle. ‘He has talent,’ said Bloch. ‘Ah!’ His sister sighed gravely, as though to imply that in that case there was some excuse for me. ‘All writers have talent,’ said M. Bloch scornfully. ‘In fact it appears,’ went on his son, raising his fork, and screwing up his eyes with an air of impish irony, ‘that he is going to put up for the Academy.’ ‘Go on. He hasn’t enough to shew them,’ replied his father, who seemed not to have for the Academy the same contempt as his son and daughters. ‘He’s not big enough.’ ‘Besides, the Academy is a salon, and Bergotte has no polish,’ declared the uncle (whose heiress Mme. Bloch was), a mild and inoffensive person whose surname, Bernard, might perhaps by itself have quickened my grandfather’s powers of diagnosis, but would have appeared too little in harmony with a face which looked as if it had been brought back from Darius’s palace and restored by Mme. Dieulafoy, had not (chosen by some collector desirous of giving a crowning touch of orientalism to this figure from Susa) his first name, Nissim, stretched out above it the pinions of an androcephalous bull from Khorsabad. But M. Bloch never stopped insulting his uncle, whether it was that he was excited by the unresisting good-humour of his butt, or that the rent of the villa being paid by M. Nissim Bernard, the beneficiary wished to shew that he kept his independence, and, more important still, that he was not seeking by flattery to make sure of the rich inheritance to come. What most hurt the old man was being treated so rudely in front of the manservant. He murmured an unintelligible sentence of which all that could be made out was: ‘when the meschores are in the room.’ ‘Meschores,’ in the Bible, means ‘the servant of God.’ In the family circle the Blochs used the word when they referred to their own servants, and were always exhilarated by it, because their certainty of not being understood either by Christians or by the servants themselves enhanced in M. Nissim Bernard and M. Bloch their twofold distinction of being ‘masters’ and at the same time ‘Jews.’ But this latter source of satisfaction became a source of displeasure when there was ‘company.’ At such times M. Bloch, hearing his uncle say ‘meschores,’ felt that he was making his oriental side too prominent, just as a light-of-love who has invited some of her sisters to meet her respectable friends is annoyed if they allude to their profession or use words that do not sound quite nice. Therefore, so far from his uncle’s request’s producing any effect on M. Bloch, he, beside himself with rage, could contain himself no longer. He let no opportunity pass of scarifying his wretched uncle. ‘Of course, when there is a chance of saying anything stupid, one can be quite certain that you won’t miss it. You would be the first to lick his boots if he were in the room!’ shouted M. Bloch, while M. Nissim Bernard in sorrow lowered over his plate the ringleted beard of King Sargon. My friend, when he began to grow his beard, which also was blue-black and crimped, became very like his great-uncle.
相似之处是最微弱的，但你会说它赋予了一个头衔。当提到他时，人们总是会说：‘布洛赫？哪一个？正如人们所说的“穆拉特公主？”哪一个？ （那不勒斯的）王后？”此外，还有一些其他的微小标记，这些标记结合在一起，使他在堂兄眼中获得了公认的尊贵地位。布洛赫先生并没有拥有自己的马车，他在特殊场合会从公司租一辆敞篷维多利亚车，配上两匹马，开车穿过布洛涅森林，他的身体软弱地从一边到另一边摊开。 ，两根手指按在他的额头上，另外两根手指支撑着他的下巴，如果那些不认识他的人断定他是一个“老麻烦”，那么他们家里的人都相信，所罗门叔叔本来可以教格拉蒙聪明的。 -卡德鲁斯一两件事。他是那些死后在《激进报》社交专栏中被描述为“巴黎知名人物”的人之一，因为多年来他们一直在林荫大道上的一家餐馆里与新闻编辑同桌。布洛赫先生告诉圣卢和我，贝戈特非常清楚为什么他，布洛赫先生总是打伤他，所以只要他在剧院或俱乐部看到他，他就会避开他的目光。圣卢脸红了，因为他突然想到这个俱乐部不可能是骑师，而他的父亲曾担任过该俱乐部的主席。另一方面，它一定是一个相当排外的俱乐部，因为布洛赫先生说过，如果贝戈特现在上来，他永远不会加入其中。 因此，圣卢并非没有担心自己可能“低估了对手”，他询问所讨论的俱乐部是否是皇家街俱乐部，他自己的家人认为这家具乐部“贬低”了俱乐部，并且他知道某些以色列人对此感到“低估”。已被录取。 “不，”布洛赫先生回答道，语气既漫不经心，又骄傲又羞愧，“这是一个小俱乐部，但比伽纳彻这个大俱乐部要令人愉快得多。”我们那里管得很严，你不知道吗。” “董事长不是鲁弗斯·伊斯雷尔斯爵士吗？”小布洛赫问他的父亲，为的是给他一个光荣的谎言的机会，万万没想到金融家并没有这么做。在圣卢的眼中，他的眼中同样显赫。事实上，加纳切斯俱乐部夸耀的不是鲁弗斯·伊斯雷尔斯爵士，而是他的一名员工。但是，由于这个人与他的雇主关系很好，他有一批金融家的卡片可供使用，每当布洛赫先生希望乘坐鲁弗斯爵士担任董事的线路时，他都会给布洛赫先生一张卡片，结果，老布洛赫会说：“我只是去俱乐部向鲁弗斯爵士要一条通往公司的线路。”这张卡使他能够让火车上的警卫眼花缭乱。布洛赫夫妇对贝戈特更感兴趣，她转向他而不是继续追寻甘纳许的话题，最小的孩子用可以想象到的最严肃的语气问她的兄弟，因为她相信世界上存在着对男人的指定衡量才华的词语，除了他习惯使用的那些词之外没有别的用语：“这个贝戈特，他真的是一个令人惊奇的好蛋吗？” “我在彩排时见过他好几次，”尼西姆·伯纳德先生说。 “他是个粗鲁的生物，有点像施勒米尔。” 这个对查米索故事的暗示并没有什么严重的地方，但是“施勒米尔”这个绰号构成了这种半德国半犹太方言的一部分，这种方言的使用让布洛赫先生在家庭圈子里感到高兴，但他却觉得粗俗。在陌生人面前格格不入。于是他责备地看了叔叔一眼。 “他有才华，”布洛赫说。 “啊！”他姐姐重重地叹了口气，似乎是在暗示，既然如此，我也算是有借口了。 “所有作家都有才华，”布洛赫先生轻蔑地说。 “事实上，”他的儿子继续说道，举起叉子，眯着眼睛，带着顽皮的讽刺神情，“他准备为学院做准备。”他没有足够的能力向他们展示，”他的父亲回答道，他似乎不像他的儿子和女儿那样蔑视学院。 “他还不够高大。​​”“此外，学院是一个沙龙，贝戈特没有什么光彩，”叔叔（布洛赫夫人是他的继承人）宣称，他是一个温和而无伤大雅的人，他的姓伯纳德也许本身就具有加快了我祖父的诊断能力，但与一张看上去像是从大流士的宫殿带回来并由夫人修复的脸太不协调了。迪乌拉福伊（由一些收藏家选择，希望给这个来自苏萨的人物赋予东方主义的点睛之笔）他的名字尼西姆（Nissim），并没有在名字上方伸出一头来自霍尔萨巴德的雄头公牛的小齿轮。但布洛赫先生从来没有停止过侮辱他的叔叔，无论是因为他屁股上不可抗拒的幽默感而兴奋，还是因为别墅的租金由尼西姆·伯纳德先生支付，受益人希望表明他保留了他的独立性，更重要的是，他并没有通过奉承来确保未来的丰厚遗产。 最让老人心痛的是，他在男仆面前受到如此粗鲁的对待。他低声说了一句难以理解的句子：“当 meschores 在房间里时。”“Meschores”在圣经中的意思是“上帝的仆人”。在家庭圈子里，布洛赫一家使用这个词。当他们提到自己的仆人时，总是感到兴奋，因为他们确信基督徒或仆人本身都不会理解他们，这在尼西姆·伯纳德先生和布洛赫先生身上增强了他们作为“主人”和但当有“同伴”时，后一种满足感的来源就变成了不愉快的来源。在这种时候，布洛赫先生听到他叔叔说“meschores”，就觉得他把他东方的一面表现得太突出了。 ，就像一个爱之光邀请她的一些姐妹去见她可敬的朋友一样，如果她们提到她们的职业或使用听起来不太好听的词语，她就会很恼火。因此，布洛赫先生不但没有对叔叔的要求产生任何影响，反而气得发狂，再也无法控制自己。他不放过任何机会去伤害他那可怜的叔叔。 “当然，当有机会说一些愚蠢的话时，可以肯定你不会错过它。如果他在房间里，你会是第一个舔他的靴子的！”布洛赫先生喊道，而尼西姆·伯纳德先生悲伤地把萨尔贡国王的卷曲胡须放在盘子上。我的朋友开始蓄起胡须，胡须也是蓝黑色且卷曲的，变得非常像他的叔祖父。

‘What! Are you the son of the Marquis de Marsantes? Why, I knew him very well,’ said M. Nissim Bernard to Saint-Loup. I supposed that he meant the word ‘knew’ in the sense in which Bloch’s father had said that he knew Bergotte, namely by sight. But he went on: ‘Your father was one of my best friends.’ Meanwhile Bloch had turned very red, his father was looking intensely cross, the Misses Bloch were choking with suppressed laughter. The fact was that in M. Nissim Bernard the love of ostentation which in M. Bloch and his children was held in cheek, had engendered the habit of perpetual lying. For instance, if he was staying in an hotel, M. Nissim Bernard, as M. Bloch equally might have done, would have his newspapers brought to him always by his valet in the dining-room, in the middle of luncheon, when everybody was there, so that they should see that he travelled with a valet. But to the people with whom he made friends in the hotel the uncle used to say what the nephew would never have said, that he was a Senator. He might know quite well that they would sooner or later discover that the title was usurped; he could not, at the critical moment, resist the temptation to assume it. M. Bloch suffered acutely from his uncle’s lies and from all the embarrassments that they led to. ‘Don’t pay any attention to him, he talks a great deal of nonsense,’ he whispered to Saint-Loup, whose interest was all the more whetted, for he was curious to explore the psychology of liars. ‘A greater liar even than the Ithacan Odysseus, albeit Athene called him the greatest liar among mortals,’ his son completed the indictment. ‘Well, upon my word!’ cried M. Nissim Bernard, ‘If I’d only known that I was going to sit down to dinner with my old friend’s son! Why, I have a photograph still of your father at home, in Paris, and any number of letters from him. He used always to call me ‘uncle,’ nobody ever knew why. He was a charming man, sparkling. I remember so well a dinner I gave at Nice; there were Sardou, Labiche, Augier,’ ‘Molière, Racine, Corneille,’ M. Bloch added with sarcasm, while his son completed the tale of guests with ‘Plautus, Menander, Kalidasa.’ M. Nissim Bernard, cut to the quick, stopped short in his reminiscence, and, ascetically depriving himself of a great pleasure, remained silent until the end of dinner.
'什么！你是马桑特侯爵的儿子吗？尼西姆·伯纳德先生对圣卢说：“我很了解他。”我猜想他所说的“知道”这个词的意思就是布洛赫的父亲所说的他认识贝戈特，即通过视觉。但他接着说：“你的父亲是我最好的朋友之一。”与此同时，布洛赫的脸涨得通红，他的父亲看上去非常生气，布洛赫夫妇强忍着笑声，哽咽了。事实是，尼西姆·伯纳德先生爱炫耀，而布洛赫先生和他的孩子们却对此不以为意，这导致了他永远撒谎的习惯。例如，如果他住在一家旅馆里，尼西姆·伯纳德先生（M. Nissim Bernard）就像布洛赫先生（M. Bloch）同样可能做的那样，总是让他的贴身男仆在餐厅里，在午餐时，将报纸带给他。在那里，这样他们就可以看到他带着一个男仆一起旅行。但对于在旅馆里结交的朋友，叔叔常常说他侄子永远不会说的话：他是一名参议员。他可能很清楚，他们迟早会发现头衔被篡夺了；在关键时刻，他无法抗拒承担这一责任的诱惑。布洛赫先生因他叔叔的谎言以及由此导致的所有尴尬而深受其害。 “别理他，他说了很多废话。”他低声对圣卢说道，圣卢的兴趣更加浓厚，因为他很好奇探索说谎者的心理。 “他是比伊萨坎奥德修斯更伟大的骗子，尽管雅典娜称他为凡人中最伟大的骗子，”他的儿子完成了起诉书。 “好吧，说实话！”尼西姆·伯纳德先生喊道，“要是我早知道我要坐下来和我老朋友的儿子一起吃晚饭就好了！” 哎呀，我有一张你父亲在巴黎家里的照片，以及他写来的许多信。他总是叫我“叔叔”，没人知道为什么。他是一个迷人的男人，闪闪发光。我清楚地记得我在尼斯举行的一次晚宴；布洛赫先生讽刺地补充道：“有萨杜、拉比什、奥吉尔”，“莫里哀、拉辛、高乃依”，而他的儿子则用“普劳图斯、米南德、卡利达萨”完成了客人的故事。尼西姆·伯纳德先生，一语中的。 ，他的回忆戛然而止，苦行般地剥夺了自己的巨大乐趣，一直保持沉默，直到晚餐结束。

‘Saint-Loup with helm of bronze,’ said Bloch, ‘have a piece more of this duck with thighs heavy with fat, over which the illustrious sacrificer of birds has spilled numerous libations of red wine.’
“戴着青铜头盔的圣卢，”布洛赫说，“再吃一块鸭子，大腿上充满了脂肪，这位杰出的鸟类祭祀者在鸭子上洒了无数的红酒。”

As a rule, after bringing out from his store for the entertainment of a distinguished guest his anecdotes of Sir Rufus Israels and others, M. Bloch, feeling that he had succeeded in touching and melting his son’s heart, would withdraw, so as not to spoil his effect in the eyes of the ‘big pot.’ If, however, there was an absolutely compelling reason, as for instance on the night when his son won his fellowship, M. Bloch would add to the usual string of anecdotes the following ironical reflexion which he ordinarily reserved for his own personal friends, so that young Bloch was extremely proud to see it produced for his: ‘The Government have acted unpardonably. They have forgotten to consult M. Coquelin! M. Coquelin has let it be known that he is displeased.’ (M. Bloch prided himself on being a reactionary, with a contempt for theatrical people.)
通常，当布洛赫先生从他的店里拿出鲁弗斯·伊斯雷尔斯爵士和其他人的轶事来招待一位尊贵的客人后，他觉得自己已经成功地触动并融化了儿子的心，他就会退出，以免然而，如果有一个绝对令人信服的理由，例如他儿子赢得奖学金的那天晚上，布洛赫先生就会在通常的一连串轶事中添加以下内容他通常会为自己的私人朋友做出讽刺性的反应，因此年轻的布洛赫看到他为自己做出的反应感到非常自豪：“政府的行为不可原谅。”他们忘记咨询科奎林先生了！科奎林先生已经公开表示他很不高兴。”（布洛赫先生以自己是一个反动派而自豪，并且蔑视戏剧界人士。）

But the Misses Bloch and their brother reddened to the tips of their ears, so much impressed were they when Bloch senior, to shew that he could be regal to the last in his entertainment of his son’s two ‘chums,’ gave the order for champagne to be served, and announced casually that, as a treat for us, he had taken three stalls for the performance which a company from the Opéra-Comique was giving that evening at the Casino. He was sorry that he had not been able to get a box. They had all been taken. However, he had often been in the boxes, and really one saw and heard better down by the orchestra. All very well, only, if the defect of his son, that is to say the defect which his son believed to be invisible to other people, was coarseness, the father’s was avarice. And so it was in a decanter that we were served with, under the name of champagne, a light sparkling wine, while under that of orchestra stalls he had taken three in the pit, which cost half as much, miraculously persuaded by the divine intervention of his defect that neither at table nor in the theatre (where the boxes were all empty) would the defect be noticed. When M. Bloch had let us moisten our lips in the flat glasses which his son dignified with the style and title of ‘craters with deeply hollowed flanks,’ he made us admire a picture to which he was so much attached that he had brought it with him to Balbec. He told us that it was a Rubens. Saint-Loup asked innocently if it was signed. M. Bloch replied, blushing, that he had had the signature cut off to make it fit the frame, but that it made no difference, as he had no intention of selling the picture. Then he hurriedly bade us good-night, in order to bury himself in the Journal Officiel, back numbers of which littered the house, and which, he informed us, he was obliged to read carefully on account of his ‘parliamentary position’ as to the precise nature of which, however, he gave us no enlightenment. ‘I shall take a muffler,’ said Bloch, ‘for Zephyrus and Boreas are disputing to which of them shall belong the fish-teeming sea, and should we but tarry a little after the show is over, we shall not be home before the first flush of Eos, the rosy-fingered. By the way,’ he asked Saint-Loup when we were outside, and I trembled, for I realised at once that it was of M. de Charlus that Bloch was speaking in that tone of irony, ‘who was that excellent old card dressed in black that I saw you walking with, the day before yesterday, on the beach?’ ‘That was my uncle.’ Saint-Loup was ruffled. Unfortunately, a ‘floater’ was far from seeming to Bloch a thing to be avoided. He shook with laughter. ‘Heartiest congratulations; I ought to have guessed; he has an excellent style, the most priceless dial of an old ‘gaga’ of the highest lineage.’ ‘You are absolutely mistaken; he is an extremely clever man,’ retorted Saint-Loup, now furious. ‘I am sorry about that; it makes him less complete. All the same, I should like very much to know him, for I flatter myself I could write some highly adequate pieces about old buffers like that. Just to see him go by, he’s killing. But I should leave out of account the caricaturable side, which really is hardly worthy of an artist enamoured of the plastic beauty of phrases, of his mug, which (you’ll forgive me) doubled me up for a moment with joyous laughter, and I should bring into prominence the aristocratic side of your uncle, who after all has a distinct bovine effect, and when one has finished laughing does impress one by his great air of style. But,’ he went on, addressing myself this time, ‘there is also a matter of a very different order about which I have been meaning to question you, and every time we are together, some god, blessed denizen of Olympus, makes me completely forget to ask for a piece of information which might before now have been and is sure some day to be of the greatest use to me. Tell me, who was the lovely lady I saw you with in the Jardin d’Acclimatation accompanied by a gentleman whom I seem to know by sight and a little girl with long hair?’ It had been quite plain to me at the time that Mme. Swann did not remember Bloch’s name, since she had spoken of him by another, and had described my friend as being on the staff of some Ministry, as to which I had never since then thought of finding out whether he had joined it. But how came it that Bloch, who, according to what she then told me, had got himself introduced to her, was ignorant of her name? I was so much surprised that I stopped for a moment before answering. ‘Whoever she is,’ he went on, ‘hearty congratulations; you can’t have been bored with her. I picked her up a few days before that on the Zone railway, where, speaking of zones, she was so kind as to undo hers for the benefit of your humble servant; I have never had such a time in my life, and we were just going to make arrangements to meet again when somebody she knew had the bad taste to get in at the last station but one.’ My continued silence did not appear to please Bloch. ‘I was hoping,’ he said, ‘thanks to you, to learn her address, so as to go there several times a week to taste in her arms the delights of Eros, dear to the gods; but I do not insist since you seem pledged to discretion with respect to a professional who gave herself to me three times running, and in the most refined manner, between Paris and the Point-du-Jour. I am bound to see her again, some night.’
但是布洛赫夫妇和他们的兄弟脸都红到了耳尖，当布洛赫年长的时候，为了表明他可以在招待儿子的两个“好友”时保持王者风范，吩咐喝香槟，他们留下了深刻的印象。招待我们时，他漫不经心地宣布，作为对我们的款待，他已经占据了三个摊位，观看喜剧歌剧院的一家公司当晚在赌场举行的演出。他很遗憾没能拿到盒子。他们都被带走了。然而，他经常呆在包厢里，在管弦乐队旁边确实能看到和听到更好的声音。一切都很好，只是，如果他儿子的缺点，也就是说他儿子认为别人看不到的缺点是粗俗，那么父亲的缺点是贪婪。因此，我们在醒酒器中喝到了一种以香槟为名的清淡起泡酒，而在管弦乐队的摊位下，他在酒窖里拿了三杯，价格是原来的一半，奇迹般地被神的干预说服了。他的缺陷无论是在餐桌上还是在剧院（那里的包厢都是空的）都不会被注意到。当布洛赫先生让我们在平板眼镜上润湿嘴唇时，他的儿子用“侧面凹陷的火山口”的风格和标题来庄重地展示​​了这副眼镜，他让我们欣赏了一幅他非常喜欢的画，所以他把它带来了和他一起去巴尔贝克。他告诉我们这是鲁本斯的作品。圣卢天真地问是否有签名。布洛赫先生红着脸回答说，他已经把签名剪掉了，以使其适合画框，但这没有什么区别，因为他无意出售这幅画。 然后他匆匆向我们道晚安，以便埋头阅读《官方日报》，该报的过期号码散落在房子里，他告诉我们，由于他的“议会立场”，他必须仔细阅读该报然而，他并没有给我们任何关于其确切性质的启发。 “我要带上消音器，”布洛赫说，“因为泽菲罗斯和波瑞阿斯正在争论鱼儿多的海到底属于他们中的哪一个，如果我们在演出结束后稍作停留，我们就无法在演出结束前回家。” Eos 的第一红，玫瑰色的手指。顺便说一句，”当我们在外面时，他问圣卢，我浑身发抖，因为我立刻意识到布洛赫用讽刺的语气说的是德·夏吕斯先生，“那个穿着华丽的旧卡片是谁？ “那是我叔叔。”圣卢很生气。不幸的是，在布洛赫看来，“漂浮物”并不是一件可以避免的事情。他笑得浑身发抖。 '最热诚的祝贺;我早该猜到的； “他有一种出色的风格，是最高血统的老‘gaga’中最无价的表盘。” “他是个极其聪明的人。”圣卢反驳道，他现在怒不可遏。 “我对此感到抱歉；这让他变得不那么完整。尽管如此，我还是非常想认识他，因为我自以为我可以写一些关于像这样的旧缓冲区的非常充分的文章。只要看到他经过，他就杀人了。 但我应该忽略他的杯子的讽刺性的一面，对于一个迷恋短语的塑料美的艺术家来说，这确实不值得，（你会原谅我）他的杯子让我开心地笑了一会儿，并且我应该突出一下你叔叔的贵族气质，毕竟他有一种明显的牛气，笑完后确实给人留下深刻的印象。但是，”他继续说道，这次是对自己说，“还有一个非常不同的问题，我一直想向你询问，每次我们在一起时，某个上帝，奥林匹斯的神圣居民，让我完全忘记了询问一条信息，这些信息以前可能并且肯定有一天对我来说是最有用的。告诉我，我在驯化花园里看到的那位可爱的女士是谁，身边有一位我似乎见过面的绅士，还有一位长发小女孩？”当时我很清楚，女士。斯万不记得布洛赫的名字，因为她曾通过另一个人谈到过他，并形容我的朋友是某个部委的职员，从那时起我就再也没有想过要查明他是否加入了这个部委。但是，根据她后来告诉我的情况，布洛赫是被介绍给她的，为什么他不知道她的名字呢？我非常惊讶，停顿了一下才回答。 “无论她是谁，”他继续说道，“衷心祝贺她；你不可能对她感到无聊。 几天前，我在区域铁路上接了她，说到区域，她很友善，为了您卑微的仆人的利益，她解开了她的铁路；我一生中从未经历过这样的时刻，我们正要安排再次见面时，她认识的一个人品味很差，在最后一站上车。”我持续的沉默似乎并没有让布洛赫高兴。 。 “我希望，”他说，“多亏了你，我才知道她的地址，以便每周去那里几次，在她怀里品尝众神所珍视的爱神之乐；但我并不坚持，因为你似乎承诺对一位专业人士保持谨慎态度，她曾三次在巴黎和日点之间以最优雅的方式将自己奉献给我。我一定会在某个晚上再次见到她。’

I called upon Bloch after this dinner; he returned my call, but I was out and he was seen asking for me by Françoise, who, as it happened, albeit he had visited us at Combray, had never set eyes on him until then. So that she knew only that one of ‘the gentlemen’ who were friends of mine had looked in to see me, she did not know ‘with what object,’ dressed in a nondescript way, which had not made any particular impression upon her. Now though I knew quite well that certain of Françoise’s social ideas must for ever remain impenetrable by me, ideas based, perhaps, partly upon confusions between words, between names which she had once and for all time mistaken for one another, I could not restrain myself, who had long since abandoned the quest for enlightenment in such cases, from seeking—and seeking, moreover, in vain—to discover what could be the immense significance that the name of Bloch had for Françoise. For no sooner had I mentioned to her that the young man whom she had seen was M. Bloch than she recoiled several paces, so great were her stupor and disappointment. ‘What! Is that M. Bloch?’ she cried, thunderstruck, as if so portentous a personage ought to have been endowed with an appearance which ‘made you know’ as soon as you saw him that you were in the presence of one of the great ones of the earth; and, like some one who has discovered that an historical character is not ‘up to’ the level of his reputation, she repeated in an impressed tone, in which I could detect latent, for future growth, the seeds of a universal scepticism: ‘What! Is that M. Bloch? Well, really, you would never think it, to look at him.’ She seemed also to bear me a grudge, as if I had always ‘overdone’ the praise of Bloch to her. At the same time she was kind enough to add: ‘Well, he may be M. Bloch, and all that. I’m sure Master can say he’s every bit as good.’
晚餐后我拜访了布洛赫。他回了我的电话，但我出去了，弗朗索瓦丝看见他在找我，碰巧的是，尽管他曾到贡布雷拜访过我们，但在那之前从未见过他。所以她只知道我的一位朋友“先生”来看过我，但她不知道“带着什么目的”，穿着平淡无奇，没有给她留下什么特别的印象。现在，虽然我很清楚，弗朗索瓦丝的某些社会观念对我来说永远是无法理解的，这些观念也许部分是基于单词之间、名字之间的混淆，而她一劳永逸地互相误认为是彼此之间的混淆，但我无法克制我自己，在这种情况下早已放弃了对启蒙的追求，不再寻求——而且，徒劳地寻求——去发现布洛赫这个名字对弗朗索瓦丝来说可能具有的巨大意义。我一向她提到她所见到的那个年轻人就是布洛赫先生，她就后退了几步，她的茫然和失望是那么强烈。 '什么！那是布洛赫先生吗？”她震惊地喊道，仿佛这样一个不祥的人物应该被赋予一种外表，让你一看到他就“知道”你正站在一位伟人面前。地球的;而且，就像有人发现某个历史人物并没有“达到”他的声誉水平一样，她以令人印象深刻的语气重复道，在这种语气中，我可以发现潜在的、未来成长的普遍怀疑论的种子：什么！那是布洛赫先生吗？嗯，真的，你永远不会想到，会看到他。”她似乎也对我怀恨在心，好像我总是“过分”对布洛赫的赞扬。 与此同时，她又好心地补充道：“嗯，他可能是布洛赫先生，诸如此类。”我相信师父可以说他也一样好。’

She had presently, with respect to Saint-Loup, whom she worshipped, a disillusionment of a different kind and of less severity: she discovered that he was a Republican. Now for all that, when speaking, for instance, of the Queen of Portugal, she would say with that disrespect which is, among the people, the supreme form of respect: ‘Amélie, Philippe’s sister,’ Françoise was a Royalist. But when it came to a Marquis; a Marquis who had dazzled her at first sight, and who was for the Republic, seemed no longer real. And she shewed the same ill-humour as if I had given her a box which she had believed to be made of gold, and had thanked me for it effusively, and then a jeweller had revealed to her that it was only plated. She at once withdrew her esteem from Saint-Loup, but soon afterwards restored it to him, having reflected that he could not, being the Marquis de Saint-Loup, be a Republican, that he was just pretending, in his own interest, for with such a Government as we had it might be a great advantage to him. From that moment her coldness towards him, her resentment towards myself ceased. And when she spoke of Saint-Loup she said: ‘He is a hypocrite,’ with a broad and friendly smile which made it clear that she ‘considered’ him again just as much as when she first knew him, and that she had forgiven him.
不久之后，她对自己所崇拜的圣卢产生了另一种不那么严重的幻灭感：她发现他是一名共和党人。尽管如此，例如，当谈到葡萄牙女王时，她会带着不敬的语气说：“艾米丽，菲利普的妹妹，”弗朗索瓦丝是保皇党人，这在人民中是最高的尊重形式。但当涉及到侯爵时；那个让她一见倾心、为共和国而战的侯爵，似乎不再真实了。她表现出同样的坏脾气，就好像我给了她一个她认为是金制成的盒子，并热情地感谢我，然后一位珠宝商向她透露，它只是镀金的。她立即​​收回了对圣卢的尊重，但不久之后又恢复了对他的尊重，因为她想到，作为圣卢侯爵，他不可能是一个共和党人，他只是为了自己的利益而假装，对于我们这样的政府来说，这对他来说可能是一个很大的优势。从那一刻起，她对他的冷漠，对我的怨恨就消失了。当她谈到圣卢时，她说：“他是个伪君子”，脸上带着灿烂而友好的微笑，这表明她再次“考虑”了他，就像她第一次认识他时一样，并且她已经原谅了他他。

As a matter of fact, Saint-Loup was absolutely sincere and disinterested, and it was this intense moral purity which, not being able to find entire satisfaction in a selfish sentiment such as love, nor on the other hand meeting in him the impossibility (which existed in me, for instance) of finding its spiritual nourishment elsewhere than in himself, rendered him truly capable (just as I was incapable) of friendship.
事实上，圣卢是绝对真诚和无私的，正是这种强烈的道德纯洁性，使他无法在爱情这样的自私情感中得到完全的满足，另一方面也无法在他身上遇到不可能的事情。例如，存在于我身上的这种精神能够在他自己之外的其他地方找到精神滋养，使他真正有能力（就像我没有能力）建立友谊。

Françoise was no less mistaken about Saint-Loup when she complained that he had that sort of air, as if he did not look down upon the people, but that it was all just a pretence, and you had only to see him when he was in a temper with his groom. It had indeed sometimes happened that Robert would scold his groom with a certain amount of brutality, which proved that he had the sense not so much of the difference as of the equality between classes and masses. ‘But,’ he said in answer to my rebuke of his having treated the man rather harshly, ‘why should I go out of my way to speak politely to him? Isn’t he my equal? Isn’t he just as near to me as any of my uncles and cousins? You seem to think that I ought to treat him with respect, as an inferior. You talk like an aristocrat!’ he added scornfully.
弗朗索瓦丝对圣卢的看法也同样是错误的，她抱怨说他有那种神气，好像他并不瞧不起人民，但这只是一个幌子，你只有在他真正的时候才能看到他。和他的新郎发脾气。确实，有时罗伯特会用一定程度的粗暴来斥责他的新郎，这证明他的意识与其说是阶级与群众之间的差异，不如说是平等的。 “但是，”他在回答我对他对待这个人相当严厉的指责时说，“我为什么要特意与他礼貌地说话呢？他不是和我平等吗？他不是和我的叔叔和表兄弟一样亲近吗？你似乎认为我应该尊重他，把他当作低等人。你说话像个贵族！”他轻蔑地补充道。

And indeed if there was a class to which he shewed himself prejudiced and hostile, it was the aristocracy, so much so that he found it as hard to believe in the superior qualities of a man in society as he found it easy to believe in those of a man of the people. When I mentioned the Princesse de Luxembourg, whom I had met with his aunt:
事实上，如果他对一个阶级表现出偏见和敌意的话，那就是贵族阶级，以至于他发现很难相信社会上一个人的优越品质，就像他发现很容易相信这些品质一样。一个人民的人。当我提到我与他的姨妈见过的卢森堡公主时：

‘An old trout,’ was his comment. ‘Like all that lot. She’s a sort of cousin of mine, by the way.’
“一条老鳟鱼，”他评论道。 ‘就像所有这些一样。顺便说一句，她是我的表弟。

Having a strong prejudice against the people who frequented it, he went rarely into ‘Society,’ and the contemptuous or hostile attitude which he adopted towards it served to increase, among all his near relatives, the painful impression made by his intimacy with a woman on the stage, a connexion which, they declared, would be his ruin, blaming it specially for having bred in him that spirit of denigration, that bad spirit, and for having led him astray, after which it was only a matter of time before he would have dropped out altogether. And so, many easy-going men of the Faubourg Saint-Germain were without compunction when they spoke of Robert’s mistress. ‘Those girls do their job,’ they would say, ‘they are as good as anybody else. But that one; no, thank youl We cannot forgive her. She has done too much harm to a fellow we were fond of.’ Of course, he was not the first to be caught in that snare. But the others amused themselves like men of the world, continued to think like men of the world about politics, about everything. As for him, his family found him ‘soured.’ They did not bear in mind that, for many young men of fashion who would otherwise remain uncultivated mentally, rough in their friendships, without gentleness or taste—it is very often their mistress who is their real master, and connexions of this sort the only school of morals in which they are initiated into a superior culture, and learn the value of disinterested relations. Even among the lower orders (who, when it comes to coarseness, so often remind us of the world of fashion) the woman, more sensitive, finer, more leisured, is driven by curiosity to adopt certain refinements, respects certain beauties of sentiment and of art which, though she may fail to understand them, she nevertheless places above what has seemed most desirable to the man, above money or position. Now whether the mistress be a young blood’s (such as Saint-Loup) or a young workman’s (electricians, for instance, must now be included in our truest order of Chivalry) her lover has too much admiration and respect for her not to extend them also to what she herself respects and admires; and for him the scale of values is thereby reversed. Her sex alone makes her weak; she suffers from nervous troubles, inexplicable things which in a man, or even in another woman—a woman whose nephew or cousin he was—would bring a smile to the lips of this stalwart young man. But he cannot bear to see her suffer whom he loves. The young nobleman who, like Saint-Loup, has a mistress acquires the habit, when he takes her out to dine, of carrying in his pocket the valerian ‘drops’ which she may need, of ordering the waiter, firmly and with no hint of sarcasm, to see that he shuts the doors quietly and not to put any damp moss on the table, so as to spare his companion those discomforts which himself he has never felt, which compose for him an occult world in whose reality she has taught him to believe, discomforts for which he now feels pity without in the least needing to understand them, for which he will still feel pity when other women than she shall be the sufferers. Saint-Loup’s mistress—as the first monks of the middle ages taught Christendom—had taught him to be kind to animals, for which she had a passion, never moving without her dog, her canaries, her love-birds; Saint-Loup looked after them with motherly devotion and treated as brutes the people who were not good to dumb creatures. On the other hand, an actress, or so-called actress, like this one who was living with him,—whether she were intelligent or not, and as to that I had no knowledge—by making him find the society of fashionable women boring, and look upon having to go out to a party as a painful duty, had saved him from snobbishness and cured him of frivolity. If, thanks to her, his social engagements filled a smaller place in the life of her young lover, at the same time, whereas if he had been simply a drawing-room man, vanity or self-interest would have dictated his choice of friends as rudeness would have characterised his treatment of them, his mistress had taught him to bring nobility and refinement into his friendship. With her feminine instinct, with a keener appreciation in men of certain qualities of sensibility which her lover might perhaps, without her guidance, have misunderstood and laughed at, she had always been swift to distinguish from among the rest of Saint-Loup’s friends, the one who had a real affection for him, and to make that one her favourite. She knew how to make him feel grateful to such a friend, shew his gratitude, notice what things gave his friend pleasure and what pain. And presently Saint-Loup, without any more need of her to prompt him, began to think of all these things by himself, and at Balbec, where she was not with him, for me whom she had never seen, whom he had perhaps not yet so much as mentioned in his letters to her, of his own accord would pull up the window of a carriage in which I was sitting, take out of the room the flowers that made me feel unwell, and when he had to say good-bye to several people at once manage to do so before it was actually time for him to go, so as to be left alone and last with me, to make that distinction between them and me, to treat me differently from the rest. His mistress had opened his mind to the invisible, had brought a serious element into his life, delicacy into his heart, but all this escaped his sorrowing family who repeated: ‘That creature will be the death of him; meanwhile she’s doing what she can to disgrace him.’ It is true that he had succeeded in getting out of her all the good that she was capable of doing him; and that she now caused him only incessant suffering, for she had taken an intense dislike to him and tormented him in every possible way. She had begun, one fine day, to look upon him as stupid and absurd because the friends that she had among the younger writers and actors had assured her that he was, and she duly repeated what they had said with that passion, that want of reserve which we shew whenever we receive from without and adopt as our own opinions or customs of which we previously knew nothing. She readily professed, like her actor friends, that between Saint-Loup and herself there was a great gulf fixed, and not to be crossed, because they were of different races, because she was an intellectual and he, whatever he might pretend, the born enemy of the intellect. This view of him seemed to her profound, and she sought confirmation of it in the most insignificant words, the most trivial actions of her lover. But when the same friends had further convinced her that she was destroying, in company so ill-suited to her, the great hopes which she had, they said, aroused in them, that her lover would leave a mark on her, that by living with him she was spoiling her future as an artist; to her contempt for Saint-Loup was added the same hatred that she would have felt for him if he had insisted upon inoculating her with a deadly germ. She saw him as seldom as possible, at the same time postponing the hour of a definite rupture, which seemed to me a highly improbable event. Saint-Loup made such sacrifices for her that unless she was ravishingly beautiful (but he had always refused to shew me her photograph, saying: ‘For one thing, she’s not a beauty, and besides she always takes badly. These are only some snapshots that I took myself with my kodak; they would give you a wrong idea of her.’) it would surely be difficult for her to find another man who would consent to anything of the sort. I never reflected that a certain obsession to make a name for oneself, even when one has no talent, that the admiration, no more than the privately expressed admiration of people who are imposing on one, can (although it may not perhaps have been the case with Saint-Loup’s mistress) be, even for a little prostitute, motives more determining than the pleasure of making money. Saint-Loup who, without quite understanding what was going on in the mind of his mistress, did not believe her to be completely sincere either in her unfair reproaches or in her promises of undying love, had all the same at certain moments the feeling that she would break with him whenever she could, and accordingly, impelled no doubt by the instinct of self-preservation which was part of his love, a love more clear-sighted, possibly, than Saint-Loup himself, making use, too, of a practical capacity for business which was compatible in him with the loftiest and blindest flights of the heart, had refused to settle upon her any capital, had borrowed an enormous sum so that she should want nothing, but made it over to her only from day to day. And no doubt, assuming that she really thought of leaving him, she was calmly waiting until she had feathered her nest, a process which, with the money given her by Saint-Loup, would not perhaps take very long, but would all the same require a time which must be conceded to prolong the happiness of my new friend—or his misery.
他对经常光顾的人抱有强烈的偏见，很少进入“社交圈”，而他对社交圈所采取的轻蔑或敌对态度，加剧了他所有近亲中因与女人的亲密接触而留下的痛苦印象。他们宣称，这种在舞台上的联系将导致他的毁灭，并特别指责这种联系在他身上滋生了那种诽谤的精神，那种邪恶的精神，并引导他误入歧途，在此之后，他的失败只是时间问题。他会完全退学。因此，圣日耳曼郊区的许多随和的男人在谈到罗伯特的情妇时，并没有感到内疚。 “那些女孩尽职尽责，”他们会说，“她们和其他人一样出色。”但那个；不，谢谢你，我们不能原谅她。她对我们所喜爱的人造成了太多的伤害。”当然，他并不是第一个落入这个陷阱的人。但其他人却像世人一样自娱自乐，继续像世人一样思考政治、思考一切。至于他，他的家人却觉得他“脾气不好”。他们没有想到，对于许多时尚青年来说，否则他们的思想会很不修养，他们的友谊会很粗糙，没有温柔和品味，而往往是他们的情妇是他们真正的主人，而这种联系是唯一的道德学校，他们可以在其中接受优越的文化，并学习无私关系的价值。 即使在下层阶级中（当谈到粗俗时，她们常常让我们想起时尚的世界），女性也更敏感、更精致、更悠闲，在好奇心的驱使下采取某些精致的做法，尊重某些情感之美，尽管她可能无法理解艺术，但她仍然将艺术置于男人最渴望的事物之上，置于金钱或地位之上。现在，无论情妇是年轻的血统（例如圣卢）还是年轻的工人（例如，电工，现在必须包括在我们最真实的骑士精神中），她的情人都对她有太多的钦佩和尊重，以至于不能不向她伸出援手。也包括她自己所尊重和钦佩的事物；对他来说，价值观的尺度因此被颠倒了。仅仅她的性别就让她变得虚弱；她患有神经病，难以解释的事情，在一个男人身上，甚至在另一个女人身上——一个她的侄子或堂兄的女人身上——都会给这个坚定的年轻人带来微笑。但他不忍心看到他所爱的她受苦。像圣卢一样，有情妇的年轻贵族养成了这样的习惯，当他带她出去吃饭时，他会在口袋里揣着她可能需要的缬草“滴”，坚定地、不带任何暗示地命令侍者。讽刺的是，要注意他安静地关上门，不要在桌子上放任何潮湿的苔藓，以免他的同伴感到他自己从未感受过的不适，这为他构成了一个神秘的世界，她在其中教导了现实他相信，他现在对这些不适感到怜悯，而根本不需要理解它们，当除她之外的其他女人遭受痛苦时，他仍然会感到怜悯。 圣卢的情妇——正如中世纪第一批修道士教导基督教世界的那样——教导他要善待动物，她对此充满热情，没有她的狗、她的金丝雀和她的爱情鸟，她就不会离开；圣卢以慈母般的慈爱照顾他们，把那些不善待哑巴的人视为畜生。另一方面，一个女演员，或者所谓的女演员，就像这个和他住在一起的人——无论她是否聪明，对此我一无所知——让他觉得时尚女性的社会很无聊，并将外出参加聚会视为一项痛苦的义务，这使他摆脱了势利，并治愈了他的轻浮。如果，多亏了她，他的社交活动在她年轻情人的生活中占据了一个较小的位置，同时，如果他只是一个客厅里的人，虚荣心或个人利益就会决定他对朋友的选择由于他对待他们的方式很粗鲁，他的情妇教导他在友谊中融入高贵和文雅。凭借她的女性本能，以及对男人某些情感品质的敏锐鉴赏力，如果没有她的指导，她的情人可能会误解和嘲笑这些品质，她总是能很快地将她与圣卢的其他朋友区分开来。一个对他怀有真正感情的人，并让他成为她的最爱。她知道如何让他对这样的朋友心存感激，表达感激之情，注意哪些事情给他的朋友带来快乐，哪些事情给他带来痛苦。 不久，圣卢不再需要她的提示，他开始独自思考所有这些事情，在巴尔贝克，她没有和他在一起，为她从未见过的我，他也许没有然而，正如他在给她的信中提到的那样，他会主动拉开我所坐马车的车窗，把让我感到不舒服的鲜花带出房间，而当他不得不说好时——在他真正离开之前，我同时设法向几个人道别，以便留下一个人，最后和我在一起，区分他们和我，以区别对待我和其他人。他的情妇向他的无形世界敞开了心扉，给他的生活带来了严肃的元素，给他的心灵带来了细腻，但这一切都逃过了他悲伤的家人的注意，他们不断重复着：“那个生物将是他的死亡；”确实，他已经成功地从她身上得到了她能够为他做的一切好处；但她却在做她能做的一切事情来羞辱他。现在她给他带来的只是不断的痛苦，因为她非常厌恶他，并以各种可能的方式折磨他。在一个晴朗的日子里，她开始认为他是愚蠢和荒谬的，因为她在年轻作家和演员中的朋友向她保证他是愚蠢和荒谬的，她适时地重复了他们所说的话，充满激情，渴望每当我们从外界接受并采用我们以前一无所知的观点或习俗时，我们都会表现出保留。 她欣然承认，像她的演员朋友一样，圣卢和她自己之间有一条巨大的鸿沟，是不可逾越的，因为他们来自不同的种族，因为她是一个知识分子，而他，无论他如何假装，都是一个知识分子。智力的天生敌人。她对他的这种看法似乎很深刻，她用她爱人最微不足道的话语、最微不足道的行为来证实这一点。但是，当这些朋友进一步让她相信，她正在摧毁她在如此不适合她的陪伴下，他们说，她在他们心中激起的巨大希望，即她的情人会在她身上留下印记，通过生活和他在一起，她正在毁掉自己作为艺术家的未来。除了她对圣卢的蔑视之外，她还对他怀有同样的仇恨，如果他坚持要给她注射致命的细菌的话。她尽可能少见到他，同时推迟了确定决裂的时间，这在我看来是极不可能发生的事情。圣卢为她做出了如此多的牺牲，除非她美得令人心醉（但他总是拒绝给我看她的照片，他说：“一方面，她不漂亮，而且她总是拍得很糟糕。这些只是一些快照） ”）她肯定很难找到另一个愿意同意此类事情的男人。我从来没有想过，即使一个人没有才华，对成名的某种痴迷，这种钦佩，只不过是那些强加给一个人的人私下表达的钦佩，可以（尽管它可能不是最重要的）即使对于一个小妓女来说，动机也比赚钱的乐趣更具有决定性。 圣卢虽然不太明白情妇心里在想什么，也不相信她的不公正的责备和她对不朽爱情的许诺是完全真诚的，但在某些时刻，他还是有这样的感觉：只要有可能，她就会和他决裂，因此，无疑是出于自我保护本能的驱使，这是他爱情的一部分，这种爱情可能比圣卢本人更清楚，也利用了他有一种实际的经商能力，与内心最崇高、最盲目的飞翔相一致，他拒绝向她支付任何资金，借了一大笔钱，这样她就什么都不想要了，但只从白天开始就交给了她。今天。毫无疑问，假设她真的想离开他，她会平静地等待，直到她把自己的巢安顿好，这个过程用圣卢给她的钱，也许不会花很长时间，但仍然会发生。需要一段时间，必须让出一段时间来延长我的新朋友的幸福——或者他的痛苦。

This dramatic period of their connexion, which had now reached its most acute stage, the most cruel for Saint-Loup, for she had forbidden him to remain in Paris, where his presence exasperated her, and had forced him to spend his leave at Balbec, within easy reach of his regiment—had begun one evening at the house of one of Saint-Loup’s aunts, on whom he had prevailed to allow his friend to come there, before a large party, to recite some of the speeches from a symbolical play in which she had once appeared in an ‘advanced’ theatre, and for which she had made him share the admiration that she herself professed.
他们关系的这段戏剧性的时期，现在已经达到了最尖锐的阶段，对圣卢来说是最残酷的，因为她禁止他留在巴黎，他的存在激怒了她，并迫使他在巴尔贝克度过了假期一天晚上，他在圣卢的一位姨妈家里开始了这次活动，他说服了她，允许他的朋友在一场大型聚会之前到那里去，背诵一些象征性的演讲。她曾在一家“高级”剧院演出过这部戏，并让他也对她本人表示钦佩。

But when she appeared in the room, with a large lily in her hand, and wearing a costume copied from the Ancilla Domini, which she had persuaded Saint-Loup was an absolute ‘vision of beauty,’ her entrance had been greeted, in that assemblage of clubmen and duchesses, with smiles which the monotonous tone of her chantings, the oddity of certain words and their frequent recurrence had changed into fits of laughter, stifled at first but presently so uncontrollable that the wretched reciter had been unable to go on. Next day Saint-Loup’s aunt had been universally censured for having allowed so grotesque an actress to appear in her drawing-room. A well-known duke made no bones about telling her that she had only herself to blame if she found herself criticised. ‘Damn it all, people really don’t come to see ‘turns’ like that! If the woman had talent, even; but she has none and never will have any. ‘Pon my soul, Paris is not such a fool as people make out. Society does not consist exclusively of imbeciles. This little lady evidently believed that she was going to take Paris by surprise. But Paris is not so easily surprised as all that, and there are still some things that they can’t make us swallow.’
但当她出现在房间里，手里拿着一朵大百合花，穿着从《安西拉·多米尼》中复制的服装时，她相信圣卢绝对是“美丽的幻象”，她的到来受到了欢迎，因为俱乐部成员和公爵夫人聚集在一起，脸上带着微笑，她吟诵的单调语气，某些单词的奇怪性和它们的频繁出现，变成了阵阵笑声，起初被压抑，但很快就无法控制，以至于可怜的朗诵者无法继续下去。第二天，圣卢的姨妈因为允许如此怪诞的女演员出现在她的客厅而受到了普遍的谴责。一位著名的公爵毫不掩饰地告诉她，如果她发现自己受到批评，只能怪她自己。 ‘该死的，人们真的不来看这样的‘转弯’！如果这个女人有才华，甚至；但她没有，也永远不会有。 “我的灵魂，巴黎并不像人们想象的那样愚蠢。社会并不完全由低能者组成。这位小女士显然相信她要给巴黎一个措手不及。但巴黎并不那么容易感到惊讶，而且仍然有一些事情无法让我们接受。

As for the actress, she left the house with Saint-Loup, exclaiming: ‘What do you mean by letting me in for those geese, those uneducated bitches, those dirty corner-boys? I don’t mind telling you, there wasn’t a man in the room who didn’t make eyes at me or squeeze my foot, and it was because I wouldn’t look at them that they were out for revenge.’
至于这位女演员，她和圣卢一起离开了家，并惊呼道：“你让我进入那些鹅、那些没有受过教育的母狗、那些肮脏的街角男孩是什么意思？”我不介意告诉你，房间里没有一个人不对我眨眼睛或捏我的脚，正是因为我不看他们，他们才出来报复。

Words which had changed Robert’s antipathy for people in society into a horror that was at once deep and distressing, and was provoked in him most of all by those who least deserved it, devoted kinsmen who, on behalf of the family, had sought to persuade Saint-Loup’s lady to break with him, a move which she represented to him as inspired by their passion for her. Robert, although he had at once ceased to see them, used to imagine when he was parted from his mistress as he was now, that they or others like them were profiting by his absence to return to the charge and had possibly prevailed over her. And when he spoke of the sensualists who were disloyal to their friends, who sought to seduce their friends’ wives, tried to make them come to houses of assignation, his whole face would glow with suffering and hatred.
这些话使罗伯特对社会上的人的反感变成了一种既深刻又令人痛苦的恐惧，而最让他感到恐惧的是那些最不值得的人，那些忠诚的亲戚，他们代表家庭试图说服他们圣卢的夫人与他决裂，她向他表示此举是出于他们对她的热情。罗伯特虽然立刻就不再见到他们了，但他常常想象，当他像现在一样与情妇分开时，他们或其他像他们一样的人会利用他的缺席而重返战场，并可能战胜了她。当他谈到那些对朋友不忠、试图引诱朋友的妻子、试图让他们来到指派之家的好色之徒时，他的整张脸都洋溢着痛苦和仇恨。

‘I would kill them with less compunction than I would kill a dog, which is at least a well-behaved beast, and loyal and faithful. There are men who deserve the guillotine if you like, far more than poor wretches who have been led into crime by poverty and by the cruelty of the rich.’
“我杀了他们比杀一只狗更不那么内疚，狗至少是一只行为良好的野兽，而且忠诚可靠。”如果你愿意的话，有些人应该被送上断头台，他们比那些因贫穷和富人的残酷行为而犯罪的可怜人要多得多。

He spent the greater part of his time in sending letters and telegrams to his mistress. Every time that, while still preventing him from returning to Paris, she found an excuse to quarrel with him by post, I read the news at once in his evident discomposure. Inasmuch as his mistress never told him what fault she found with him, suspecting that possibly if she did not tell him it was because she did not know herself, and simply had had enough of him, he would still have liked an explanation and used to write to her: ‘Tell me what I have done wrong. I am quite ready to acknowledge my faults,’ the grief that overpowered him having the effect of persuading him that he had behaved badly.
他大部分时间都花在给情妇寄信和电报上。每当她一边阻止他回巴黎，一边找借口通过邮寄方式与他争吵时，我都会在他明显的不安中立即看到新闻。因为他的情妇从来没有告诉过他她发现了他的什么毛病，怀疑如果她不告诉他，可能是因为她不了解自己，而且只是受够了他，所以他仍然希望得到一个解释，并习惯于写信给她：‘告诉我我做错了什么。我已经准备好承认自己的错误了，”压倒他的悲伤使他相信自己的行为很糟糕。

But she kept him waiting indefinitely for her answers which, when they did come, were meaningless. And so it was almost always with a furrowed brow, and often with empty hands that I would see Saint-Loup returning from the post office, where, alone in all the hotel, he and Françoise went to fetch or to hand in letters, he from a lover’s impatience, she with a servant’s mistrust of others. (His telegrams obliged him to take a much longer journey.)
但她让他无限期地等待着她的答案，而当答案真正到来时，却毫无意义。因此，每当我看到圣卢从邮局回来时，他几乎总是皱着眉头，两手空空，他和弗朗索瓦丝独自一人在整个旅馆里去取信或递信。来自情人的不耐烦，她与仆人对他人的不信任。 （他的电报迫使他长途跋涉。）

When, some days after our dinner with the Blochs, my grandmother told me with a joyful air that Saint-Loup had just been asking her whether, before he left Balbec, she would not like him to take a photograph of her, and when I saw that she had put on her nicest dress on purpose, and was hesitating between several of her best hats, I felt a little annoyed by this childishness, which surprised me coming from her. I even went the length of asking myself whether I had not been mistaken in my grandmother, whether I did not esteem her too highly, whether she was as unconcerned as I had always supposed in the adornment of her person, whether she had not indeed the very weakness that I believed most alien to her temperament, namely coquetry.
与布洛赫夫妇共进晚餐几天后，我的祖母高兴地告诉我，圣卢在离开巴尔贝克之前曾问过她是否不希望他为她拍张照片，当我看到她故意穿上了自己最好看的衣服，又在几顶最好的帽子之间犹豫不决，我对她的这种幼稚感到有点恼火，这让我很惊讶。我什至不厌其烦地问自己，是不是我对祖母的看法是错误的，是不是我对她的评价不够高，她是不是像我一直以为的那样，不关心她的外表，是不是她确实没有我认为与她的性情最格格不入的一个弱点就是卖弄风情。

Unfortunately, this displeasure that I derived from the prospect of a photographic ‘sitting,’ and more particularly from the satisfaction with which my grandmother appeared to be looking forward to it, I made so apparent that Françoise remarked it and did her best, unintentionally, to increase it by making me a sentimental, gushing speech, by which I refused to appear moved.
不幸的是，我的这种不悦源于对摄影“坐着”的期待，更具体地说是来自我祖母似乎期待它的满足感，我表现得如此明显，以至于弗朗索瓦丝注意到了这一点，并无意中尽了最大努力，通过让我发表感伤的、滔滔不绝的演讲来增加这种感觉，但我拒绝表现出被感动的样子。

‘Oh, Master; my poor Madame will be so pleased at having her likeness taken, she is going to wear the hat that her old Françoise has trimmed for her, you must allow her, Master.’
‘噢，师父；我可怜的夫人会对她的肖像感到非常高兴，她将戴上她的老弗朗索瓦丝为她修剪的帽子，您必须允许她，主人。

I acquired the conviction that I was not cruel in laughing at Françoise’s sensibility, by reminding myself that my mother and grandmother, my models in all things, often did the same. But my grandmother, noticing that I seemed cross, said that if this plan of her sitting for her photograph offended me in any way she would give it up. I would not let her; I assured her that I saw no harm in it, and left her to adorn herself, but, thinking that I shewed my penetration and strength of mind, I added a few stinging words of sarcasm, intended to neutralize the pleasure which she seemed to find in being photographed, so that if I was obliged to see my grandmother’s magnificent hat, I succeeded at least in driving from her face that joyful expression which ought to have made me glad; but alas, it too often happens, while the people we love best are still alive, that such expressions appear to us as the exasperating manifestation of some unworthy freak of fancy rather than as the precious form of the happiness which we should dearly like to procure for them. My ill-humour arose more particularly from the fact that, during the last week, my grandmother had appeared to be avoiding me, and I had not been able to have her to myself for a moment, either by night or day. When I came back in the afternoon to be alone with her for a little I was told that she was not in the hotel; or else she would shut herself up with Françoise for endless confabulations which I was not permitted to interrupt. And when, after being out all evening with Saint-Loup, I had been thinking on the way home of the moment at which I should be able to go to my grandmother and to kiss her, in vain might I wait for her to knock on the partition between us the three little taps which would tell me to go in and say good night to her; I heard nothing; at length I would go to bed, a little resentful of her for depriving me, with an indifference so new and strange in her, of a joy on which I had so much counted, I would lie still for a while, my heart throbbing as in my childhood, listening to the wall which remained silent, until I cried myself to sleep.
我确信我嘲笑弗朗索瓦丝的敏感并不残忍，因为我提醒自己，我的母亲和祖母，我在所有事情上的榜样，也经常做同样的事情。但我的祖母注意到我似乎很生气，就说如果她坐着拍照的计划有任何冒犯我的地方，她就会放弃。我不会让她这么做；我向她保证，我认为这没有什么坏处，并让她自己装饰自己，但是，我认为我表现出了我的洞察力和心灵力量，我添加了一些尖刻的讽刺的话，旨在抵消她似乎找到的快乐。在被拍照的过程中，如果我不得不看到祖母那顶华丽的帽子，我至少成功地从她脸上赶走了本应让我感到高兴的快乐表情。但可惜的是，当我们最爱的人还活着时，这种表达方式对我们来说似乎是某种不值得的幻想的令人恼火的表现，而不是我们渴望获得的幸福的宝贵形式。对于他们来说。我的坏脾气尤其源于这样一个事实：在过去的一周里，我的祖母似乎在回避我，而我无论白天黑夜都无法让她独享片刻。当我下午回来和她单独呆一会儿时，我被告知她不在酒店；她不在酒店。否则她就会把自己关在弗朗索瓦丝的门外，无休无止地闲聊，而我却不允许打断。 和圣卢一起出去了一整夜之后，我在回家的路上一直在想，什么时候我可以去找我的祖母，亲吻她，但我徒劳地等待她敲门。我们之间的隔断是三个小水龙头，它会告诉我进去向她道晚安；我什么也没听到；最后，我会上床睡觉，有点怨恨她，因为她以一种新奇而陌生的冷漠态度，剥夺了我原本非常依赖的快乐，我会静静地躺一会儿，我的心在剧烈地跳动。小时候，听着墙的声音一直保持沉默，直到我哭着入睡。

SEASCAPE, WITH FRIEZE OF GIRLS
海景，有女孩饰带

That day, as for some days past, Saint-Loup had been obliged to go to Doncières, where, until his leave finally expired, he would be on duty now until late every afternoon. I was sorry that he was not at Balbec. I had seen alight from carriages and pass, some into the ball-room of the Casino, others into the ice-cream shop, young women who at a distance had seemed to me lovely. I was passing through one of those periods of our youth, unprovided with any one definite love, vacant, in which at all times and in all places—as a lover the woman by whose charms he is smitten—we desire, we seek, we see Beauty. Let but a single real feature—the little that one distinguishes of a woman seen from afar or from behind—enable us to project the form of beauty before our eyes, we imagine that we have seen her before, our heart beats, we hasten in pursuit, and will always remain half-persuaded that it was she, provided that the woman has vanished: it is only if we manage to overtake her that we realise our mistake.
那天，和过去的几天一样，圣卢不得不去东西埃尔，在那里，直到他的假期结束为止，他现在每天下午都值班到很晚。我很遗憾他不在巴尔贝克。我曾看到一些年轻女子从马车下车经过，有的走进赌场的舞厅，有的走进冰淇淋店，远远望去，我觉得她们很可爱。我正在经历我们青春期的一个时期，没有任何一种明确的爱情，空虚的，在这个时期，无论何时何地——作为一个情人，一个被她的魅力所迷住的女人——我们渴望，我们寻求，我们见美。只要有一个真实的特征——从远处或从后面看女人的那一点点区别——就能让我们将美丽的形式投射在我们的眼前，我们想象我们以前见过她，我们的心跳，我们匆忙如果那个女人已经消失了，我们就会始终半信半疑地相信那是她：只有当我们设法追上她时，我们才会意识到我们的错误。

Besides, as I grew more and more delicate, I was inclined to overrate the simplest pleasures because of the difficulties that sprang up in the way of my attaining them. Charming women I seemed to see all round me, because I was too tired, if it was on the beach, too shy if it was in the Casino or at a pastry-cook’s, to go anywhere near them. And yet if I was soon to die I should have liked first to know the appearance at close quarters, in reality of the prettiest girls that life had to offer, even although it should be another than myself or no one at all who was to take advantage of the offer. (I did not, in fact, appreciate the desire for possession that underlay my curiosity.) I should have had the courage to enter the ballroom if Saint-Loup had been with me. Left by myself, I was simply hanging about in front of the Grand Hotel until it was time for me to join my grandmother, when, still almost at the far end of the paved ‘front’ along which they projected in a discordant spot of colour, I saw coming towards me five or six young girls, as different in appearance and manner from all the people whom one was accustomed to see at Balbec as could have been, landed there none knew whence, a flight of gulls which performed with measured steps upon the sands—the dawdlers using their wings to overtake the rest—a movement the purpose of which seems as obscure to the human bathers, whom they do not appear to see, as it is clearly determined in their own birdish minds.
此外，随着我​​变得越来越脆弱，我倾向于高估最简单的快乐，因为在获得它们的过程中出现了困难。我似乎在我周围看到了迷人的女人，因为如果是在海滩上，我太累了，如果是在赌场或糕点师那里，我太害羞了，无法靠近她们。然而，如果我快要死了，我应该首先想近距离地了解一下生活中最美丽的女孩的外表，即使它应该是另一个人而不是我自己，或者根本没有人会接受。优惠的优势。 （事实上​​，我并没有意识到我的好奇心背后隐藏着对占有的渴望。）如果圣卢和我在一起，我应该有勇气进入舞厅。留下我一个人，我只是在大酒店前面闲逛，直到我和祖母会合的时候，那时，我仍然几乎在铺好的“前面”的远端，沿着它们投射出不和谐的颜色斑点我看见五六个年轻女孩向我走来，她们的外貌和举止与人们在巴尔贝克所见的人截然不同，她们降落在了那里，无人知道是从哪里来的，一群海鸥以整齐的步伐飞翔。在沙滩上——懒惰的人用翅膀超越其他人——这种运动的目的对于人类沐浴者来说似乎是模糊的，他们似乎没有看到他们，但在他们自己的鸟儿头脑中却清楚地决定了这一点。

One of these strangers was pushing as she came, with one hand, her bicycle; two others carried golf-clubs; and their attire generally was in contrast to that of the other girls at Balbec, some of whom, it was true, went in for games, but without adopting any special outfit.
当她用一只手推着自行车过来时，其中一个陌生人正在推着她。另外两个人拿着高尔夫球杆；她们的着装通常与巴尔贝克的其他女孩形成鲜明对比，其中一些女孩确实参加了比赛，但没有穿任何特殊的服装。

It was the hour at which ladies and gentlemen came out every day for a turn on the ‘front,’ exposed to the merciless fire of the long glasses fastened upon them, as if they had each borne some disfigurement which she felt it her duty to inspect in its minutest details, by the chief magistrate’s wife, proudly seated there with her back to the band-stand, in the middle of that dread line of chairs on which presently they too, actors turned critics, would come and establish themselves, to scrutinise in their turn those others who would then be filing past them. All these people who paced up and down the ‘front,’ tacking as violently as if it had been the deck of a ship (for they could not lift a leg without at the same time waving their arms, turning their heads and eyes, settling their shoulders, compensating by a balancing movement on one side for the movement they had just made on the other, and puffing out their faces), and who, pretending not to see so as to let it be thought that they were not interested, but covertly watching, for fear of running against the people who were walking beside or coming towards them, did, in fact, butt into them, became entangled with them, because each was mutually the object of the same secret attention veiled beneath the same apparent disdain; their love—and consequently their fear—of the crowd being one of the most powerful motives in all men, whether they seek to please other people or to astonish them, or to shew them that they despise them. In the case of the solitary, his seclusion, even when it is absolute and ends only with life itself, has often as its primary cause a disordered love of the crowd, which so far overrules every other feeling that, not being able to win, when he goes out, the admiration of his hall-porter, of the passers-by, of the cabman whom he hails, he prefers not to be seen by them at all, and with that object abandons every activity that would oblige him to go out of doors.
每天这个时候，女士们先生们都会出来，在“前线”上转一圈，暴露在戴在身上的长眼镜无情的火焰下，仿佛他们每个人都遭受过某种毁容，而她认为这是她的责任首席法官的妻子，自豪地坐在那排可怕的椅子中间，背对着演奏台，检查最微小的细节，不久他们也从演员变成批评家，来到这里站稳脚跟，轮流检查那些从他们身边经过的人。所有这些在“前线”来回踱步的人，猛烈地逆风航行，就像是在一艘船的甲板上一样（因为他们无法抬起一条腿，同时挥动手臂，转动他们的头和眼睛，安定下来）他们的肩膀，通过一侧的平衡运动来补偿他们刚刚在另一侧所做的运动，并鼓起他们的脸），而他们假装没有看到，以便让人认为他们不感兴趣，但是他们偷偷地注视着，生怕撞到走在他们旁边或朝他们走来的人，事实上，他们撞到了他们，与他们纠缠在一起，因为每个人都是同样秘密关注的对象，但隐藏在同样明显的蔑视之下;他们对群体的热爱——以及由此而来的恐惧——是所有人最强大的动机之一，无论他们是想取悦他人，还是想让别人惊讶，或者让别人知道他们鄙视他们。 就孤独者而言，他的隐居，即使是绝对的，只以生命本身结束，其主要原因往往是对人群的无序的爱，到目前为止，这种爱压倒了所有其他感觉，即无法获胜，当他出去时，他的门房、路人、他所招呼的马车夫都对他赞叹不已，他宁愿不被他们看见，为此他放弃了一切迫使他外出的活动。户外。

Among all these people, some of whom were pursuing a train of thought, but if so betrayed its instability by spasmodic gestures, a roving gaze as little in keeping as the circumspect titubation of their neighbours, the girls whom I had noticed, with that mastery over their limbs which comes from perfect bodily condition and a sincere contempt for the rest of humanity, were advancing straight ahead, without hesitation or stiffness, performing exactly the movements that they wished to perform, each of their members in full independence of all the rest, the greater part of their bodies preserving that immobility which is so noticeable in a good waltzer. They were now quite near me. Although each was a type absolutely different from the others, they all had beauty; but to tell the truth I had seen them for so short a time, and without venturing to look them straight in the face, that I had not yet individualised any of them. Save one, whom her straight nose, her dark complexion pointed in contrast among the rest, like (in a renaissance picture of the Epiphany) a king of Arab cast, they were known to me only, one by a pair of eyes, hard, set and mocking; another by cheeks in which the pink had that coppery tint which makes one think of geraniums; and even of these points I had not yet indissolubly attached any one to one of these girls rather than to another; and when (according to the order in which their series met the eye, marvellous because the most different aspects came next one another, because all scales of colours were combined in it, but confused as a piece of music in which I should not have been able to isolate and identify at the moment of their passage the successive phrases, no sooner distinguished than forgotten) I saw emerge a pallid oval, black eyes, green eyes, I knew not if these were the same that had already charmed me a moment ago, I could not bring them home to any one girl whom I might thereby have set apart from the rest and so identified. And this want, in my vision, of the demarcations which I should presently establish between them sent flooding over the group a wave of harmony, the continuous transfusion of a beauty fluid, collective and mobile.
在所有这些人中，其中一些人正在追寻一连串的思绪，但如果这样的话，就会通过痉挛性的手势、飘忽不定的目光和他们邻居的谨慎的犹豫来暴露出它的不稳定，我注意到的那些女孩，带着那种掌握他们的四肢来自于完美的身体状况和对其他人类的真诚蔑视，他们笔直向前，毫不犹豫或僵硬，准确地执行他们希望执行的动作，他们的每个成员完全独立于其他所有成员他们身体的大部分都保持着不动，这在一首优秀的华尔兹舞曲中是非常明显的。他们现在离我很近了。虽然个个都是截然不同的类型，但个个都有美貌，但说实话，我见到他们的时间很短，也没有敢正视他们的脸，所以我还没有把他们中的任何一个个体化。 除了一个，她的直鼻子和黝黑的肤色与其他人形成鲜明对比，就像（在一幅文艺复兴时期的主显节照片中）阿拉伯国王，只有我认识她们，其中一个有一双眼睛，严厉，设置和嘲笑；另一个是脸颊，粉红色带有铜色，让人想起天竺葵。即使在这些观点中，我还没有将其中任何一个与其中一个女孩而不是另一个女孩牢不可分地联系在一起。当（根据他们的系列遇到眼睛的顺序，奇妙的是，因为最不同的方面依次出现，因为所有颜色的音阶都组合在其中，但像一首音乐一样混乱，我不应该在其中能够在它们通过的那一刻分离和识别连续的短语，一旦区分就被遗忘）我看到出现一个苍白的椭圆形，黑色的眼睛，绿色的眼睛，我不知道这些是否是刚才已经让我着迷的相同，我无法把它们带回家给任何一个女孩，这样我就可以将她们与其他女孩区分开来，从而识别出来。在我看来，我现在应该在他们之间建立界限，这种需要给整个团体带来了一股和谐的浪潮，一种集体的、流动的美丽液体的持续输注。

It was not perhaps, in this life of ours, mere chance that had, in forming this group of friends, chosen them all of such beauty; perhaps these girls (whose attitude was enough to reveal their nature, bold, frivolous and hard), extremely sensitive to everything that was ludicrous or ugly, incapable of yielding to an intellectual or moral attraction, had naturally felt themselves, among companions of their own age, repelled by all those in whom a pensive or sensitive disposition was betrayed by shyness, awkwardness, constraint, by what, they would say,’didn’t appeal’ to them, and from such had held aloof; while they attached themselves, on the other hand, to others to whom they were drawn by a certain blend of grace, suppleness, and physical neatness, the only form in which they were able to picture the frankness of a seductive character and the promise of pleasant hours in one another’s company. Perhaps, too, the class to which they belonged, a class which I should not have found it easy to define, was at that point in its evolution at which, whether thanks to its growing wealth and leisure, or thanks to new athletic habits, extended now even to certain plebeian elements, and a habit of physical culture to which had not yet been added the culture of the mind, a social atmosphere, comparable to that of smooth and prolific schools of sculpture, which have not yet gone in for tortured expressions, produces naturally and in abundance fine bodies with fine legs, fine hips, wholesome and reposeful faces, with an air of agility and guile. And were they not noble and calm models of human beauty that I beheld there, outlined against the sea, like statues exposed to the sunlight upon a Grecian shore?
在我们的这一生中，结识这群朋友，选择他们都如此美丽，也许并非纯粹的偶然；而是因为，他们都是如此美丽的人。也许这些女孩（她们的态度足以暴露她们的本性，大胆、轻浮、强硬），对一切可笑或丑陋的事物极其敏感，无法屈服于智力或道德的吸引力，自然而然地感觉到自己在自己的同伴中年龄，厌恶所有那些因害羞、尴尬、拘束而表现出沉思或敏感性格的人，他们会说，这些东西“不吸引”他们，因此他们保持距离；另一方面，他们却依附于其他人，他们被优雅、柔软和身体整洁所吸引，这是他们能够描绘出诱人性格的坦率和承诺的唯一形式。彼此陪伴的愉快时光。也许，他们所属的阶层，一个我本不该轻易定义的阶层，正处于其演变的那个阶段，无论是由于其日益增长的财富和闲暇，还是由于新的运动习惯，现在甚至延伸到某些平民元素，一种体育文化的习惯，其中还没有添加精神文化，一种社会氛围，可与流畅而多产的雕塑流派相媲美，尚未遭受酷刑。表情，自然而丰富地塑造出优美的体态，纤细的腿、纤细的臀部、健康而宁静的面孔，带着敏捷和狡猾的气息。我在那里看到的，它们不是高贵而平静的人类美的典范吗？在大海的衬托下，它们的轮廓就像希腊海岸上暴露在阳光下的雕像一样？

Just as if, in the heart of their band, which progressed along the ‘front’ like a luminous comet, they had decided that the surrounding crowd was composed of creatures of another race whose sufferings even could not awaken in them any sense of fellowship, they appeared not to see them, forced those who had stopped to talk to step aside, as though from the path of a machine that had been set going by itself, so that it was no good waiting for it to get out of their way, their utmost sign of consciousness being when, if some old gentleman of whom they did not admit the existence and thrust from them the contact, had fled with a frightened or furious, but a headlong or ludicrous motion, they looked at one another and smiled. They had, for whatever did not form part of their group, no affectation of contempt; their genuine contempt was sufficient. But they could not set eyes on an obstacle without amusing themselves by crossing it, either in a running jump or with both feet together, because they were all filled to the brim, exuberant with that youth which we need so urgently to spend that even when we are unhappy or unwell, obedient rather to the necessities of our age than to the mood of the day, we can never pass anything that can be jumped over or slid down without indulging ourselves conscientiously, interrupting, interspersing our slow progress—as Chopin his most melancholy phrase—with graceful deviations in which caprice is blended with virtuosity. The wife of an elderly banker, after hesitating between various possible exposures for her husband, had settled him on a folding chair, facing the ‘front,’ sheltered from wind and sun by the band-stand. Having seen him comfortably installed there, she had gone to buy a newspaper which she would read aloud to him, to distract him—one of her little absences which she never prolonged for more than five minutes, which seemed long enough to him but which she repeated at frequent intervals so that this old husband on whom she lavished an attention that she took care to conceal, should have the impression that he was still quite alive and like other people and was in no need of protection. The platform of the band-stand provided, above his head, a natural and tempting springboard, across which, without a moment’s hesitation, the eldest of the little band began to run; she jumped over the terrified old man, whose yachting cap was brushed by the nimble feet, to the great delight of the other girls, especially of a pair of green eyes in a ‘dashing’ face, which expressed, for that bold act, an admiration and a merriment in which I seemed to discern a trace of timidity, a shamefaced and blustering timidity which did not exist in the others. ‘Oh, the poor old man; he makes me sick; he looks half dead;’ said a girl with a croaking voice, but with more sarcasm than sympathy. They walked on a little way, then stopped for a moment in the middle of the road, with no thought whether they were impeding the passage of other people, and held a council, a solid body of irregular shape, compact, unusual and shrill, like birds that gather on the ground at the moment of flight; then they resumed their leisurely stroll along the ‘front,’ against a background of sea.
就好像，在他们这群像一颗发光的彗星一样沿着‘前线’前进的队伍的中心，他们已经认定周围的人群是由另一个种族的生物组成的，他们的痛苦甚至无法在他们身上唤醒任何团契感，他们似乎没有看到他们，迫使那些停下来说话的人退到一边，仿佛从一台机器自行启动的路径上走出来，所以等待它让路是没有用的，他们意识到的最明显的迹象是，如果某个他们不承认其存在并拒绝与他们接触的老绅士带着恐惧或愤怒，但轻率或可笑的动作逃跑了，他们就会互相看着对方并微笑。对于任何不属于他们群体的人，他们都没有表现出蔑视的态度。他们真正的蔑视就足够了。但他们每次看到障碍物时，都会通过跨越障碍来取乐，无论是奔跑跳跃还是双脚并拢，因为他们都充满了青春，我们迫切需要青春，即使在我们不快乐或不舒服，服从我们时代的需要而不是当今的情绪，如果我们不认真地放纵自己，打断或穿插我们缓慢的进步，我们永远无法超越任何可以跳过或滑落的东西——正如肖邦他的最忧郁的短语——带有优雅的偏差，任性与精湛的技艺融为一体。一位年长银行家的妻子在为丈夫选择各种可能的风险之前犹豫不决后，将他安置在一张折叠椅上，面朝“前方”，由演奏台遮挡风吹日晒。 看到他舒适地坐在那儿后，她去买了一份报纸，大声读给他听，以分散他的注意力——她的一次短暂缺席，她从来没有超过五分钟，这对他来说似乎足够长，但她每隔一段时间就重复一遍，这样她对这位老丈夫倾注了极大的关注，却小心翼翼地隐藏着，让他留下这样的印象：他还活着，像其他人一样，不需要保护。演奏台的平台在他的头顶上提供了一个自然而诱人的跳板，小乐队中最年长的人毫不犹豫地开始奔跑。她跳过了那个吓坏了的老人，他的游艇帽被敏捷的脚擦过，这让其他女孩们非常高兴，尤其是一张“潇洒”的脸上有一双绿眼睛，这表明，对于这一大胆的举动，钦佩和欢乐中，我似乎看出了一丝胆怯，一种其他人身上不存在的羞愧和狂妄的胆怯。 ‘哦，可怜的老人；他让我恶心； “他看起来半死不活。”一个女孩用沙哑的声音说道，但语气中更多的是讽刺而不是同情。他们走了一小段路，然后在路中间停了一会儿，也没有考虑是否妨碍了其他人的通行，并举行了一次会议，一个形状不规则的实体，紧凑，异常而尖锐，就像鸟儿在飞翔的瞬间聚集在地面上；然后他们继续沿着“前线”悠闲地漫步，背景是大海。

By this time their charming features had ceased to be indistinct and impersonal. I had dealt them like cards into so many heaps to compose (failing their names, of which I was still ignorant) the big one who had jumped over the old banker; the little one who stood out against the horizon of sea with her plump and rosy cheeks, her green eyes; the one with the straight nose and dark complexion, in such contrast to all the rest; another, with a white face like an egg on which a tiny nose described an arc of a circle like a chicken’s beak; yet another, wearing a hooded cape (which gave her so poverty-stricken an appearance, and so contradicted the smartness of the figure beneath that the explanation which suggested itself was that this girl must have parents of high position who valued their self-esteem so far above the visitors to Balbec and the sartorial elegance of their own children that it was a matter of the utmost indifference to them that their daughter should stroll on the ‘front’ dressed in a way which humbler people would have considered too modest); a girl with brilliant, laughing eyes and plump, colourless cheeks, a black polo-cap pulled down over her face, who was pushing a bicycle with so exaggerated a movement of her hips, with an air borne out by her language, which was so typically of the gutter and was being shouted so loud, when I passed her (although among her expressions I caught that irritating ‘live my own life’) that, abandoning the hypothesis which her friend’s hooded cape had made me construct, I concluded instead that all these girls belonged to the population which frequents the racing-tracks, and must be the very juvenile mistresses of professional bicyclists. In any event, in none of my suppositions was there any possibility of their being virtuous. At first sight—in the way in which they looked at one another and smiled, in the insistent stare of the one with the dull cheeks—I had grasped that they were not. Besides, my grandmother had always watched over me with a delicacy too timorous for me not to believe that the sum total of the things one ought not to do was indivisible or that girls who were lacking in respect for their elders would suddenly be stopped short by scruples when there were pleasures at stake more tempting than that of jumping over an octogenarian.
此时，她们那迷人的容貌已不再是模糊的、没有人情味的了。我把它们像纸牌一样分成了很多堆，组成了跳过老银行家的大牌（没有记下它们的名字，我还不知道）。那个小家伙，在海平线的映衬下显得格外显眼，她的脸颊红润而丰满，一双绿色的眼睛；鼻子挺直，肤色黝黑，与其他人形成鲜明对比；另一个，脸蛋白得像鸡蛋，小鼻子上画着一个像鸡嘴一样的圆弧。还有一个，穿着连帽斗篷（这让她看起来很贫穷，与下面人物的聪明相矛盾，所以暗示的解释是，这个女孩一定有一个地位很高的父母，他们非常重视他们的自尊，所以远远高于巴尔贝克的游客和他们自己孩子的衣着优雅，他们的女儿如果穿着谦虚的人会认为太谦虚的衣服走在“前面”，这对他们来说是最冷漠的事情）；一个女孩，眼睛明亮，笑意盈盈，脸颊丰满，毫无血色，一顶黑色马球帽拉下来遮住了脸，推着自行车，臀部的动作如此夸张，语言中透出一种神气，真是太棒了。当我经过她身边时（尽管在她的表情中我发现了令人恼火的“过我自己的生活”），我放弃了她朋友的连帽斗篷让我构建的假设，而是得出结论：所有这些女孩都属于经常光顾赛车场的人群，并且一定是职业自行车手的青少年情妇。 无论如何，在我的假设中，他们都不可能有道德。第一眼看上去——从他们互相看着对方、微笑的方式，从那个面色暗淡的人坚持不懈的凝视——我就意识到他们不是。此外，我的祖母总是以一种过于胆怯的温柔态度看着我，让我不相信一个人不应该做的事情的总和是不可分割的，或者那些不尊重长辈的女孩会突然被阻止。当有比跳过八十多岁的老人更诱人的快乐时，就会有所顾忌。

Though they were now separately identifiable, still the mutual response which they gave one another with eyes animated by self-sufficiency and the spirit of comradeship, in which were kindled at every moment now the interest now the insolent indifference with which each of them sparkled according as her glance fell on one of her friends or on passing strangers, that consciousness, moreover, of knowing one another intimately enough always to go about together, by making them a ‘band apart’ established between their independent and separate bodies, as slowly they advanced, a bond invisible but harmonious, like a single warm shadow, a single atmosphere making of them a whole as homogeneous in its parts as it was different from the crowd through which their procession gradually wound.
尽管他们现在可以分开辨认，但他们仍然以自给自足的眼神和同志精神互相给予对方回应，其中每时每刻都点燃了他们每个人都闪烁着的兴趣，现在是傲慢的冷漠。当她的目光落在她的一位朋友或路过的陌生人身上时，那种意识，即彼此足够亲密地了解彼此，总是可以一起走动，通过使他们在独立和分离的身体之间建立起一个“分开的带”，慢慢地，他们先进的，一种无形但和谐的联系，就像一个温暖的影子，一种单一的气氛，使他们成为一个整体，其各部分是同质的，与他们的队伍逐渐蜿蜒穿过的人群不同。

For an instant, as I passed the dark one with the fat cheeks who was wheeling a bicycle, I caught her smiling, sidelong glance, aimed from the centre of that inhuman world which enclosed the life of this little tribe, an inaccessible, unknown world to which the idea of what I was could certainly never attain nor find a place in it. Wholly occupied with what her companions were saying, this young girl in her polo-cap, pulled down very low over her brow, had she seen me at the moment in which the dark ray emanating from her eyes had fallen on me? In the heart of what universe did she distinguish me? It would have been as hard for me to say as, when certain peculiarities are made visible, thanks to the telescope, in a neighbouring planet, it is difficult to arrive at the conclusion that human beings inhabit it, that they can see us, or to say what ideas the sight of us can have aroused in their minds.
有那么一瞬间，当我经过那个推着自行车、面色黝黑、面颊肥胖的人时，我看到她微笑着，斜视着她，目光从那个非人的世界的中心瞄准，这个世界包围了这个小部落的生活，一个难以接近的、未知的世界我的身份的想法肯定永远无法达到，也无法在其中找到一席之地。这个头戴马球帽、眉头拉得很低的少女，正全神贯注地听着同伴们的谈话，当她眼中射出的黑光落在我身上的那一刻，她看见我了吗？她在哪个宇宙的中心区分了我？对我来说，这很难说，因为当借助望远镜，在邻近的行星上，某些特性变得可见时，很难得出人类居住在该行星上的结论，即他们可以看到我们，或者说出看到我们会在他们的脑海中激起什么想法。

If we thought that the eyes of a girl like that were merely two glittering sequins of mica, we should not be athirst to know her and to unite her life to ours. But we feel that what shines in those reflecting discs is not due solely to their material composition; that it is, unknown to us, the dark shadows of the ideas that the creature is conceiving, relative to the people and places that she knows—the turf of racecourses, the sand of cycling tracks over which, pedalling on past fields and woods, she would have drawn me after her, that little peri, more seductive to me than she of the Persian paradise—the shadows, too, of the home to which she will presently return, of the plans that she is forming or that others have formed for her; and above all that it is she, with her desires, her sympathies, her revulsions, her obscure and incessant will. I knew that I should never possess this young cyclist if I did not possess also what there was in her eyes. And it was consequently her whole life that filled me with desire; a sorrowful desire because I felt that it was not to be realised, but exhilarating, because what had hitherto been my life, having ceased of a sudden to be my whole life, being no more now than a little part of the space stretching out before me, which I was burning to cover and which was composed of the lives of these girls, offered me that prolongation, that possible multiplication of oneself which is happiness. And no doubt the fact that we had, these girls and I, not one habit—as we had not one idea—in common, was to make it more difficult for me to make friends with them and to please them. But perhaps, also, it was thanks to those differences, to my consciousness that there did not enter into the composition of the nature and actions of these girls a single element that I knew or possessed, that there came in place of my satiety a thirst—like that with which a dry land burns—for a life which my soul, because it had never until now received one drop of it, would absorb all the more greedily in long draughts, with a more perfect imbibition.
如果我们认为这样一个女孩的眼睛只是两颗闪闪发光的云母亮片，我们就不会渴望了解她，并把她的生活与我们的生活结合起来。但我们觉得这些反射盘的闪光不仅仅在于它们的材料成分，还在于它们的材质。我们不知道的是，它是这个生物正在构思的想法的黑暗阴影，相对于她所认识的人和地方——赛马场的草皮，自行车道的沙子，在过去的田野和树林上骑行，她会吸引我追随她，那个小peri，对我来说比波斯天堂的她更有吸引力——也是她即将返回的家园的阴影，她正在制定或其他人已经制定的计划的阴影为了她;最重要的是，她有她的欲望、她的同情、她的厌恶、她隐晦而持续不断的意志。我知道，如果我不拥有她眼中的东西，我就永远不会拥有这个年轻的自行车手。因此，正是她的一生让我充满了渴望。这是一种悲伤的愿望，因为我觉得它无法实现，但又令人兴奋，因为迄今为止我的生活突然不再是我的全部生活，现在只不过是之前伸展的空间的一小部分。我，我渴望覆盖它，它是由这些女孩的生命组成的，它为我提供了一种延长，一种自我的可能的繁衍，这就是幸福。毫无疑问，我们这些女孩和我没有一个共同的习惯——因为我们没有一个共同的想法——这让我更难与她们交朋友并取悦她们。 但也许，也正是由于这些差异，由于我意识到这些女孩的本性和行为的构成中并没有我所知道或拥有的单一元素，所以我的满足感被渴求所取代。 ——就像旱地燃烧的生命——因为我的灵魂迄今为止从未接受过一滴生命，所以它会在长长的气流中更加贪婪地吸收，以更完美的吸收。

I had looked so closely at the dark cyclist with the bright eyes that she seemed to notice my attention, and said to the biggest of the girls something that I could not hear. To be honest, this dark one was not the one that pleased me most, simply because she was dark and because (since the day on which, from the little path by Tansonville, I had seen Gilberte) a girl with reddish hair and a golden skin had remained for me the inaccessible ideal. But Gilberte herself, had I not loved her principally because she had appeared to me haloed with that aureole of being the friend of Bergotte, of going with him to look at old cathedrals? And in the same way could I not rejoice at having seen this dark girl look at me (which made me hope that it would be easier for me to get to know her first), for she would introduce me to the others, to the pitiless one who had jumped over the old man’s head, to the cruel one who had said ‘He makes me sick, poor old man!’—to all of them in turn, among whom, moreover, she had the distinction of being their inseparable companion? And yet the supposition that I might some day be the friend of one or other of these girls, that their eyes, whose incomprehensible gaze struck me now and again, playing upon me unawares, like the play of sunlight upon a wall, might ever, by a miraculous alchemy, allow to interpenetrate among their ineffable particles the idea of my existence, some affection for my person, that I myself might some day take my place among them in the evolution of their course by the sea’s edge—that supposition appeared to me to contain within it a contradiction as insoluble as if, standing before some classical frieze or a fresco representing a procession, I had believed it possible for me, the spectator, to take my place, beloved of them, among the godlike hierophants.
我用明亮的眼睛仔细地观察了那个肤色黝黑的骑车人，她似乎注意到了我的注意力，并对最大的女孩说了一些我听不见的事情。说实话，这个黑发并不是最让我高兴的，只是因为她是黑发，还因为（从那天起，我在坦森维尔的小路上看到了希尔贝特）一个红发、金色长发的女孩。皮肤对我来说仍然是遥不可及的理想。但希尔贝特本人，我爱她不主要是因为她在我看来戴着贝戈特朋友的光环，和他一起去看古老的大教堂吗？同样地，当我看到这个黑皮肤的女孩看着我时，我会不高兴吗（这让我希望我先了解她会更容易），因为她会把我介绍给其他人，介绍给那些无情的人。一个曾经跳过老人头顶的人，一个曾经说过“他让我恶心，可怜的老人！”的残酷者——依次对他们所有人来说，而且，在他们中间，她有幸成为他们不可分割的伴侣。 ？ 然而，假设有一天我可能成为这些女孩中的一个或另一个的朋友，她们的眼睛，其难以理解的目光时不时地打动我，不知不觉地在我身上玩耍，就像阳光照在墙上一样，可能永远，通过神奇的炼金术，让我的存在的想法，对我个人的某种感情，在它们不可言喻的粒子中相互渗透，有一天我自己可能会在它们在海边的演化过程中占据一席之地——这种假设似乎是我在其中包含了一个无法解决的矛盾，就好像站在一些古典的饰带或代表游行的壁画前，我相信我，观众，有可能取代我在神圣的圣职者中的位置，深受他们的喜爱。

The happiness of knowing these girls was, then, not to be realised. Certainly it would not have been the first of its kind that I had renounced. I had only to recall the numberless strangers whom, even at Balbec, the carriage bowling away from them at full speed had forced me for ever to abandon. And indeed the pleasure that was given me by the little band, as noble as if it had been composed of Hellenic virgins, came from some suggestion that there was in it of the flight of passing figures along a road. This fleetingness of persons who are not known to us, who force us to put out from the harbour of life, in which the women whose society we frequent have all, in course of time, laid bare their blemishes, urges us into that state of pursuit in which there is no longer anything to arrest the imagination. But to strip our pleasures of imagination is to reduce them to their own dimensions, that is to say to nothing. Offered me by one of those procuresses (whose good offices, all the same, the reader has seen that I by no means scorned), withdrawn from the element which gave them so many fine shades and such vagueness, these girls would have enchanted me less. We must have imagination, awakened by the uncertainty of being able to attain our object, to create a goal which hides our other goal from us, and by substituting for sensual pleasures the idea of penetrating into a life prevents us from recognising that pleasure, from tasting its true savour, from restricting it to its own range.
那么，认识这些女孩的幸福是无法实现的。当然，这并不是我第一次放弃这种做法。我只需要回忆起无数的陌生人，即使在巴尔贝克，马车全速驶离他们也迫使我永远放弃他们。事实上，这小队给我带来的快乐，就像它是由希腊处女组成的那样高贵，来自于某种暗示，其中有沿着道路飞驰而过的人影。那些我们不认识的人的转瞬即逝，他们迫使我们从生命的港湾中被赶出来，我们经常接触的那些女人，随着时间的推移，都暴露了她们的瑕疵，促使我们进入那种状态在这种追求中，不再有任何东西可以阻止想象力。但剥夺我们想象的乐趣就是将它们缩小到它们自己的维度，也就是说什么都没有。那些騨女之一向我提出了请求（尽管如此，读者已经看到我决不鄙视她的斡旋），她们远离了赋予她们如此多精致色调和如此模糊的元素，这些女孩本来不会那么让我着迷的。 。我们必须有想象力，被能否实现我们的目标的不确定性所唤醒，创造一个对我们隐藏其他目标的目标，并且通过渗透到生活中的感官快乐的想法来取代感官快乐，使我们无法认识到快乐，品尝它的真正味道，从限制它到自己的范围。

There must be, between us and the fish which, if we saw it for the first time cooked and served on a table, would not appear worth the endless trouble, craft and stratagem that are necessary if we are to catch it, interposed, during our afternoons with the rod, the ripple to whose surface come wavering, without our quite knowing what we intend to do with them, the burnished gleam of flesh, the indefiniteness of a form, in the fluidity of a transparent and flowing azure.
在我们和鱼之间，如果我们第一次看到它被煮熟并放在桌子上，那么我们似乎不值得付出无尽的麻烦，如果我们要捕获它，那么我们需要技巧和策略，介入，我们用棍子度过的下午，其表面的涟漪摇摆不定，我们完全不知道我们打算用它们做什么，肉体的闪亮光芒，形式的不确定性，在透明和流动的蔚蓝的流动性中。

These girls benefited also by that alteration of social values characteristic of seaside life. All the advantages which, in our ordinary environment, extend and magnify our importance, we there find to have become invisible, in fact to be eliminated; while on the other hand the people whom we suppose, without reason, to enjoy similar advantages appear to us amplified to artificial dimensions. This made it easy for strange women generally, and to-day for these girls in particular, to acquire an enormous importance in my eyes, and impossible to make them aware of such importance as I might myself possess.
这些女孩还受益于海边生活所特有的社会价值观的改变。在我们平常的环境中，所有那些能够扩大和放大我们的重要性的优势，我们发现都变得不可见了，事实上已经被消除了。另一方面，我们无缘无故地认为享有类似优势的人，在我们看来却被放大到了人为的程度。这使得一般陌生的女人，尤其是今天的这些女孩，很容易在我眼中获得巨大的重要性，而不可能让她们意识到我自己可能拥有的重要性。

But if there was this to be said for the excursion of the little band, that it was but an excerpt from the innumerable flight of passing women, which had always disturbed me, their flight was here reduced to a movement so slow as to approach immobility. Now, precisely because, in a phase so far from rapid, faces no longer swept past me in a whirlwind, but calm and distinct still appeared beautiful, I was prevented from thinking as I had so often thought when Mme. de Villeparisis’s carriage bore me away that, at closer quarters, if I had stopped for a moment, certain details, a pitted skin, drooping nostrils, a silly gape, a grimace of a smile, an ugly figure might have been substituted, in the face and body of the woman, for those that I had doubtless imagined; for there had sufficed a pretty outline, a glimpse of a fresh complexion, for me to add, in entire good faith, a fascinating shoulder, a delicious glance of which I carried in my mind for ever a memory or a preconceived idea, these rapid decipherings of a person whom we see in motion exposing us thus to the same errors as those too rapid readings in which, on a single syllable and without waiting to identify the rest, we base instead of the word that is in the text a wholly different word with which our memory supplies us. It could not be so with me now. I had looked well at them all; each of them I had seen, not from every angle and rarely in full face, but all the same in two or three aspects different enough to enable me to make either the correction or the verification, to take a ‘proof of the different possibilities of line and colour that are hazarded at first sight, and to see persist in them, through a series of expressions, something unalterably material. I could say to myself with conviction that neither in Paris nor at Balbec, in the most favourable hypotheses of what might have happened, even if I had been able to stop and talk to them, the passing women who had caught my eye, had there ever been one whose appearance, followed by her disappearance without my having managed to know her, had left me with more regret than would these, had given me the idea that her friendship might be a thing so intoxicating. Never, among actresses nor among peasants nor among girls from a convent school had I beheld anything so beautiful, impregnated with so much that was unknown, so inestimably precious, so apparently inaccessible. They were, of the unknown and potential happiness of life, an illustration so delicious and in so perfect a state that it was almost for intellectual reasons that I was desperate with the fear that I might not be able to make, in unique conditions which left no room for any possibility of error, proper trial of what is the most mysterious thing that is offered to us by the beauty which we desire and console ourselves for never possessing, by demanding pleasure—as Swann had always refused to do before Odette’s day—from women whom we have not desired, so that, indeed, we die without having ever known what that other pleasure was. No doubt it was possible that it was not in reality an unknown pleasure, that on a close inspection its mystery would dissipate and vanish, that it was no more than a projection, a mirage of desire. But in that case I could blame only the compulsion of a law of nature—which if it applied to these girls would apply to all—and not the imperfection of the object. For it was that which I should have chosen above all others, feeling quite certain, with a botanist’s satisfaction, that it was not possible to find collected anywhere rarer specimens than these young flowers who were interrupting at this moment before my eyes the line of the sea with their slender hedge, like a bower of Pennsylvania roses adorning a garden on the brink of a cliff, between which is contained the whole tract of ocean crossed by some steamer, so slow in gliding along the blue and horizontal line that stretches from one stem to the next that an idle butterfly, dawdling in the cup of a flower which the moving hull has long since passed, can, if it is to fly and be sure of arriving before the vessel, wait until nothing but the tiniest slice of blue still separates the questing prow from the first petal of the flower towards which it is steering.
但是，如果要说这支小乐队的远足，那只是无数过路妇女的飞行中的一个摘录，这一直让我感到不安，但她们的飞行在这里被简化为缓慢得几乎静止不动的运动。现在，正因为在一个远非快速的阶段，面孔不再像旋风一样从我身边掠过，而是平静和清晰仍然显得美丽，所以我无法像我在夫人的时候经常想的那样思考。德维尔帕里西斯的马车让我觉得，在更近的地方，如果我停下来一会儿，某些细节，凹凸不平的皮肤，下垂的鼻孔，愚蠢的张口结舌，苦相微笑，丑陋的身材可能会被取代，在那个女人的脸和身体，毫无疑问是我想象的；因为有一个漂亮的轮廓，一瞥新鲜的肤色就足够了，我可以完全真诚地添加一个迷人的肩膀，一个美妙的一瞥，我在脑海中永远保留着记忆或先入为主的想法，这些快速的因此，对我们所看到的运动中的人的破译使我们面临与那些太快的阅读相同的错误，在这些阅读中，我们在单个音节上而不等待识别其余部分，而不是在文本中使用完全不同的单词。我们的记忆为我们提供的单词。现在我不可能这样了。我已经仔细地观察过它们了。他们每一个我都见过，不是从各个角度，也很少是全脸，但在两三个方面都是相同的，足以使我能够进行修正或验证，以“证明不同的可能性”第一眼看到的线条和颜色，通过一系列的表达，看到它们中存在着某种不可改变的物质性的东西。 我可以坚定地对自己说，无论是在巴黎还是在巴尔贝克，即使我能够停下来与她们交谈，在可能发生的情况的最有利的假设中，引起我注意的路过的女人也不会在那里。曾经有一个人，她的出现，然后在我没能认识她的情况下就消失了，给我留下的遗憾比这些更让我觉得她的友谊可能是一件如此令人陶醉的事情。在女演员、农民或修道院学校的女孩中，我从未见过如此美丽的东西，充满了如此多未知的东西，如此珍贵，如此明显难以接近。它们是关于生活中未知的和潜在的幸福的例证，如此美味且处于如此完美的状态，几乎出于智力原因，我绝望地担心我可能无法在独特的条件下实现这一目标不允许任何错误的可能性，适当地尝试什么是我们所渴望的美丽所提供给我们的最神秘的东西，并通过要求快乐来安慰自己从未拥有的东西——正如斯旺在奥黛特时代之前一直拒绝做的那样——我们不想要的女人，因此，事实上，我们死时还不知道另一种快乐是什么。毫无疑问，它实际上可能不是一种未知的快乐，仔细观察它的神秘感就会消散并消失，它只不过是一种投射，一种欲望的海市蜃楼。但在这种情况下，我只能归咎于自然法则的强制——如果它适用于这些女孩，那么它就适用于所有人——而不是物体的不完美。 因为这是我应该优先选择的，因为我非常确定，带着植物学家的满足感，不可能在任何地方找到比这些年轻的花朵更稀有的标本，它们此时此刻在我眼前打断了花朵的线条。大海，有细长的树篱，就像宾夕法尼亚玫瑰的凉亭，装饰着悬崖边缘的花园，悬崖边上有一艘汽船穿过的整片海洋，沿着从一艘船延伸出来的蓝色水平线缓慢地滑行。接下来，一只懒惰的蝴蝶，在移动的船体早已经过的花杯中磨蹭，如果它要飞翔并确保在船只之前到达，它可以等到除了最微小的蓝色片之外什么都没有。仍然将探索的船头与其所转向的花朵的第一片花瓣分开。

I went indoors because I was to dine at Rivebelle with Robert, and my grandmother insisted that on those evenings, before going out, I must lie down for an hour on my bed, a rest which the Balbec doctor presently ordered me to extend to the other evenings also.
我走进室内，因为我要和罗伯特一起在里维贝尔吃饭，我的祖母坚持说，在那些晚上，出去之前，我必须在床上躺一个小时，巴尔贝克医生立即命令我将这一休息时间延长到其他晚上也一样。

However, there was no need, when one went indoors, to leave the ‘front’ and to enter the hotel by the hall, that is to say from behind. By virtue of an alteration of the clock which reminded me of those Saturdays when, at Combray, we used to have luncheon an hour earlier, now with summer at the full the days had become so long that the sun was still high in the heavens, as though it were only tea-time, when the tables were being laid for dinner in the Grand Hotel. And so the great sliding windows were kept open from the ground. I had but to step across a low wooden sill to find myself in the dining-room, through which I walked and straight across to the lift.
然而，当一个人走进室内时，没有必要离开“前面”，从大厅进入酒店，也就是说从后面进入酒店。由于时钟的改变，让我想起了那些星期六，在贡布雷，我们常常提前一个小时吃午饭，现在正值盛夏，白天变得如此之长，太阳仍然高高地挂在天空中，仿佛这只是下午茶时间，大饭店里已经摆好餐桌准备吃晚饭了。因此，巨大的滑动窗户从地面保持打开状态。我只要跨过一个低矮的木窗台，就发现自己来到了餐厅，穿过餐厅，径直走向电梯。

As I passed the office I addressed a smile to the manager, and with no shudder of disgust gathered one for myself from his face which, since I had been at Balbec, my comprehensive study of it was injecting and transforming, little by little, like a natural history preparation. His features had become familiar to me, charged with a meaning that was of no importance but still intelligible, like a script which one can read, and had ceased in any way to resemble these queer, intolerable characters which his face had presented to me on that first day, when I had seen before me a personage now forgotten, or, if I succeeded in recalling him, unrecognisable, difficult to identify with this insignificant and polite personality of which the other was but a caricature, a hideous and rapid sketch. Without either the shyness or the sadness of the evening of my arrival I rang for the attendant, who no longer stood in silence while I rose by his side in the lift as in a mobile thoracic cage propelled upwards along its ascending pillar, but repeated:
当我经过办公室时，我对经理微笑，没有一丝厌恶的颤抖，从他的脸上为自己摘下一个微笑，自从我在巴尔贝克以来，我对它的全面研究正在一点一点地注入和改变，就像自然历史准备。他的面容对我来说已经变得熟悉起来，充满了一种不重要但仍然可以理解的含义，就像一本可以阅读的剧本，并且不再像他脸上向我呈现的那些奇怪的、难以忍受的人物。第一天，当我在我面前看到一个现在已经被遗忘的人物时，或者，如果我成功地回忆起他，我无法认出他，很难将他与这个微不足道和礼貌的人物联系起来，而另一个人只是一个漫画，一个丑陋而快速的草图。我没有到达那天晚上的害羞或悲伤，而是按响了服务员的电话，当我在电梯里站到他身边时，他不再沉默地站着，就像在一个移动的胸笼中，沿着上升的柱子向上推进一样，而是重复道：

‘There aren’t the people now there were a month back. They’re beginning to go now; the days are drawing in.’ He said this not because there was any truth in it but because, having an engagement, presently, for a warmer part of the coast, he would have liked us all to leave, so that the hotel could be shut up and he have a few days to himself before ‘rejoining’ in his new place. ‘Rejoin’ and ‘new’ were not, by the way, incompatible terms, since, for the lift-boy,’rejoin’ was the usual form of the verb ‘to join.’ The only thing that surprised me was that he condescended to say ‘place,’ for he belonged to that modern proletariat which seeks to efface from our language every trace of the rule of domesticity. A moment later, however, he informed me that in the ‘situation’ which he was about to ‘rejoin,’ he would have a smarter ‘tunic’ and a better ‘salary,’ the words ‘livery’ and ‘wages’ sounding to him obsolete and unseemly. And as, by an absurd contradiction, the vocabulary has, through thick and thin, among us ‘masters,’ survived the conception of inequality, I was always failing to understand what the lift-boy said. For instance, the only thing that interested me was to know whether my grandmother was in the hotel. Now, forestalling my questions, the lift-boy would say to me: ‘That lady has just gone out from your rooms.’ I was invariably taken in; I supposed that he meant my grandmother. ‘No, that lady; I think she’s an employee of yours.’ As in the old speech of the middle classes, which ought really to be done away with, a cook is not called an employee, I thought for a moment: ‘But he must be mistaken. We don’t own a factory; we haven’t any employees.’ Suddenly I remembered that the title of ‘employee’ is, like the wearing of a moustache among waiters, a sop to their self-esteem given to servants, and realised that this lady who had just gone out must be Françoise (probably on a visit to the coffee-maker, or to watch the Belgian lady’s little maid at her sewing), though even this sop did not satisfy the lift-boy, for he would say quite naturally, speaking pityingly of his own class, ‘with the working man’ or ‘the small person,’ using the same singular form as Racine when he speaks of ‘the poor.’ But as a rule, for my zeal and timidity of the first evening were now things of the past, I no longer spoke to the lift-boy. It was he now who stood there and received no answer during the short journey on which he threaded his way through the hotel, hollowed out inside like a toy, which extended round about us, floor by floor, the ramifications of its corridors in the depths of which the light grew velvety, lost its tone, diminished the communicating doors, the steps of the service stairs which it transformed into that amber haze, unsubstantial and mysterious as a twilight, in which Rembrandt picks out here and there a window-sill or a well-head. And on each landing a golden light reflected from the carpet indicated the setting sun and the lavatory window.
“现在已经没有一个月前的人了。他们现在开始走了；日子快到了。”他这么说并不是因为这话有任何道理，而是因为他现在有一个约会，要前往海岸较温暖的地方，他希望我们所有人都离开，这样酒店就可以了。闭嘴，在“重新加入”新地方之前，他有几天独处的时间。顺便说一句，“重新加入”和“新”并不是不相容的术语，因为对于电梯男孩来说，“重新加入”是动词“加入”的常用形式。唯一让我惊讶的是他居高临下说“地方”，因为他属于现代无产阶级，他们力图从我们的语言中抹去家庭生活统治的一切痕迹。然而，过了一会儿，他告诉我，在他即将“重新加入”的“情况”中，他将拥有更漂亮的“外衣”和更好的“薪水”，“制服”和“工资”这两个词听起来他过时且不体面。由于荒谬的矛盾，我们这些“大师”中的词汇在不平等的概念中幸存下来，我总是无法理解电梯男孩在说什么。例如，我唯一感兴趣的是知道我的祖母是否在酒店。现在，电梯服务员会先打断我的问题，对我说：“那位女士刚刚从你的房间出去了。”我总是被吸引住了。我以为他指的是我的祖母。 “不，那位女士；我想她是你的雇员。’就像中产阶级的旧言论一样，这确实应该废除，厨师不被称为雇员，我想了一会儿：‘但他一定是弄错了。我们没有工厂；我们没有任何员工。突然我想起“雇员”这个称呼，就像侍者之间留小胡子一样，是对仆人的一种安抚自尊的东西，我意识到这位刚刚出去的女士一定是弗朗索瓦丝（可能是在参观咖啡机，或者观看比利时女士的小女仆缝纫），尽管即使这样的安慰也不能满足电梯男孩，因为他会很自然地说，可怜地谈论他自己的阶级，“与工作人”或“小人物”，与拉辛在谈到“穷人”时使用相同的单数形式。但一般来说，因为我第一晚的热情和胆怯现在已经成为过去，所以我不再说话了给电梯男孩。现在是他站在那里，在他穿过酒店的短暂旅程中没有得到任何答复，酒店内部像一个玩具一样被挖空，酒店在我们周围一层一层地延伸，其走廊的分支在深处光线变得柔和，失去了色调，缩小了连通的门，服务楼梯的台阶，它变成了琥珀色的薄雾，像暮色一样虚无而神秘，伦勃朗在其中到处挑出窗台或窗台。一个井头。在每个楼梯平台上，地毯上反射出的金色光芒表明了夕阳和盥洗室的窗户。

I asked myself whether the girls I had just seen lived at Balbec, and who they could be. When our desire is thus concentrated upon a little tribe of humanity which it singles out from the rest, everything that can be associated with that tribe becomes a spring of emotion and then of reflexion. I had heard a lady say on the ‘front’: ‘She is a friend of the little Simonet girl’ with that self-important air of inside knowledge, as who should say: ‘He is the inseparable companion of young La Rochefoucauld.’ And immediately she had detected on the face of the person to whom she gave this information a curiosity to see more of the favoured person who was ‘a friend of the little Simonet.’ A privilege, obviously, that did not appear to be granted to all the world. For aristocracy is a relative state. And there are plenty of inexpensive little holes and corners where the son of an upholsterer is the arbiter of fashion and reigns over a court like any young Prince of Wales. I have often since then sought to recall how it first sounded for me there on the beach, that name of Simonet, still quite indefinite as to its form, which I had failed to distinguish, and also as to its significance, to the designation by it of such and such a person, or perhaps of some one else; imprinted, in fact, with that vagueness, that novelty which we find so moving in the sequel, when the name whose letters are every moment engraved more deeply on our hearts by our incessant thought of them has become (though this was not to happen to me with the name of the ‘little Simonet’ until several years had passed) the first coherent sound that comes to our lips, whether on waking from sleep or on recovering from a swoon, even before the idea of what o’clock it is or of where we are, almost before the word ‘I,’ as though the person whom it names were more ‘we’ even than we ourselves, and as though after a brief spell of unconsciousness the phase that is the first of all to dissolve is that in which we were not thinking of her. I do not know why I said to myself from the first that the name Simonet must be that of one of the band of girls; from that moment I never ceased to ask myself how I could get to know the Simonet family, get to know them, moreover, through people whom they considered superior to themselves (which ought not to be difficult if the girls were only common little ‘bounders’) so that they might not form a disdainful idea of me. For one cannot have a perfect knowledge, one cannot effect the complete absorption of a person who disdains one, so long as one has not overcome her disdain. And since, whenever the idea of women who are so different from us penetrates our senses, unless we are able to forget it or the competition of other ideas eliminates it, we know no rest until we have converted those aliens into something that is compatible with ourself, our heart being in this respect endowed with the same kind of reaction and activity as our physical organism, which cannot abide the infusion of any foreign body into its veins without at once striving to digest and assimilate it: the little Simonet must be the prettiest of them all—she who, I felt moreover, might yet become my mistress, for she was the only one who, two or three times half-turning her head, had appeared to take cognisance of my fixed stare. I asked the lift-boy whether he knew of any people at Balbec called Simonet. Not liking to admit that there was anything which he did not know, he replied that he seemed to have heard the name somewhere. As we reached the highest landing I told him to have the latest lists of visitors sent up to me.
我问自己刚才看到的那些女孩是否住在巴尔贝克，她们可能是谁。当我们的欲望因此集中在人类中从其他人中挑选出来的一个小部落时，与该部落相关的一切都成为情感的源泉，然后成为反思的源泉。我听到一位女士在“前面”说：“她是西蒙内小女孩的朋友”，带着一种自以为是的内情知识，就像谁应该说：“他是年轻的拉罗什福科不可分割的伴侣。”她立即​​在她向其提供此信息的人的脸上发现了一种好奇心，想更多地看到她所青睐的人，即“小西蒙内特的朋友”。显然，这种特权似乎并没有被授予全世界。因为贵族是一个相对的国家。还有很多廉价的小洞和角落，室内装潢商的儿子是时尚的仲裁者，像任何年轻的威尔士亲王一样统治着宫廷。 从那时起，我经常试图回忆起它在海滩上对我来说的第一次听起来如何，西蒙内这个名字，对于它的形式仍然相当不确定，我无法区分它，而且对于它的意义，对于它的命名它是某个人的，或者可能是其他人的；事实上，这种模糊性，那种新奇感，在续集中留下了深刻的印记，我们在续集中发现了如此动人的感觉，因为我们对它们的不断思考，每时每刻都将这个名字深深地铭刻在我们的心上（尽管这并没有发生在我们的身上）。直到几年后，我才知道“小西蒙内特”的名字）第一个出现在我们嘴唇上的连贯声音，无论是从睡梦中醒来还是从昏迷中恢复过来，甚至在知道现在是几点或什么之前几乎在“我”这个词之前，就好像它所指的那个人甚至比我们自己更“我们”，仿佛在短暂的无意识之后，第一个消散的阶段是我们没有想到她。我不知道为什么我从一开始就对自己说西蒙内特这个名字一定是一群女孩的名字；从那一刻起，我就不停地问自己，怎样才能了解西蒙奈一家，而且还要通过他们认为比自己优秀的人来了解他们（如果这些女孩只是普通的小“边界人”，这应该不难。 ’）以免他们对我产生轻蔑的想法。因为一个人不可能拥有完美的知识，只要一个人没有克服她的蔑视，就无法完全吸收一个蔑视他的人。 因为，每当那些与我们如此不同的女性的观念渗透到我们的感官中时，除非我们能够忘记它，或者其他观念的竞争将其消除，否则我们就不会休息，直到我们将这些外星人转变为与我们兼容的东西。我们自己，在这方面，我们的心脏被赋予了与我们的身体有机体相同的反应和活动，身体有机体不能忍受任何异物注入其血管而不立即努力消化和吸收它：小西蒙内必须是其中最漂亮的——而且，我觉得她可能会成为我的情妇，因为她是唯一一个，两三次半转过头，似乎注意到了我的凝视。我问电梯服务员是否认识巴尔贝克有一个叫西蒙内特的人。他不愿意承认有什么他不知道的事情，他回答说他好像在哪里听过这个名字。当我们到达最高的平台时，我告诉他将最新的访客名单发送给我。

I stepped out of the lift, but instead of going to my room I made my way farther along the corridor, for before my arrival the valet in charge of the landing, despite his horror of draughts, had opened the window at the end, which instead of looking out to the sea faced the hill and valley inland, but never allowed them to be seen, for its panes, which were made of clouded glass, were generally closed. I made a short ‘station’ in front of it, time enough just to pay my devotions to the view which for once it revealed over the hill against which the back of the hotel rested, a view that contained but a solitary house, planted in the middle distance, though the perspective and the evening light in which I saw it, while preserving its mass, gave it a sculptural beauty and a velvet background, as though to one of those architectural works in miniature, tiny temples or chapels wrought in gold and enamels, which serve as reliquaries and are exposed only on rare and solemn days for the veneration of the faithful. But this moment of adoration had already lasted too long, for the valet, who carried in one hand a bunch of keys and with the other saluted me by touching his verger’s skull-cap, though without raising it, on account of the pure, cool evening air, came and drew together, like those of a shrine, the two sides of the window, and so shut off the minute edifice, the glistening relic from my adoring gaze. I went into my room. Regularly, as the season advanced, the picture that I found there in my window changed. At first it was broad daylight, and dark only if the weather was bad: and then, in the greenish glass which it distended with the curve of its round waves, the sea, set among the iron uprights of my window like a piece of stained glass in its leads, ravelled out over all the deep rocky border of the bay little plumed triangles of an unmoving spray delineated with the delicacy of a feather or a downy breast from Pisanello’s pencil, and fixed in that white, unalterable, creamy enamel which is used to depict fallen snow in Gallé’s glass.
我走出电梯，但没有去自己的房间，而是沿着走廊继续前行，因为在我到达之前，负责着陆的男仆尽管害怕穿堂风，还是打开了尽头的窗户，不是面向大海而是面向内陆的山丘和山谷，但从不让人们看到它们，因为它的玻璃是由云玻璃制成的，通常是关闭的。我在它前面做了一个短暂的“停留”，时间足够让我奉献我的奉献精神，这一次它在酒店后面靠着的小山上显露出来，这个景色只包含一座孤零零的房子，种植在中距离，尽管我看到它的透视和傍晚的光线，在保留其质量的同时，却赋予了它雕塑般的美感和天鹅绒般的背景，就好像那些用黄金打造的微型、小型寺庙或教堂中的建筑作品之一珐琅，用作圣物盒，仅在罕见而庄严的日子里暴露出来，以供信徒崇拜。但这个崇拜的时刻已经持续太久了，对男仆来说，他一手拿着一串钥匙，另一只手摸了摸他的司事的无边便帽向我致意，尽管没有举起它，因为纯粹、冷静的缘故。傍晚的空气像神殿一样吹来，将窗户的两侧聚集在一起，从而将这座微小的建筑、闪闪发光的遗迹从我崇拜的目光中挡住。我走进自己的房间。随着季节的推移，我在橱窗里发现的图片经常发生变化。 起初，天是大白天，只有天气不好的时候，才会是黑暗的：然后，在绿色的玻璃里，大海随着圆形波浪的曲线而膨胀，镶嵌在我窗户的铁柱之间，就像一块污迹斑斑的玻璃。玻璃在它的引线上，在海湾的所有深岩石边缘上散开，一动不动的喷雾的小羽毛三角形，用羽毛或皮萨内洛铅笔的柔软乳房的精致描绘，并固定在白色的，不可改变的，奶油色的珐琅中。用于描绘加勒玻璃中飘落的雪花。

Presently the days grew shorter and at the moment when I entered my room the violet sky seemed branded with the stiff, geometrical, travelling, effulgent figure of the sun (like the representation of some miraculous sign, of some mystical apparition) leaning over the sea from the hinge of the horizon as a sacred picture leans over a high altar, while the different parts of the western sky exposed in the glass fronts of the low mahogany bookcases that ran along the walls, which I carried back in my mind to the marvellous painting from which they had been detached, seemed like those different scenes which some old master executed long ago for a. confraternity upon a shrine, whose separate panels are now exhibited side by side upon the wall of a museum gallery, so that the visitor’s imagination alone can restore them to their place on the predella of the reredos. A few weeks later, when I went upstairs, the sun had already set. Like the one that I used to see at Combray, behind the Calvary, when I was coming home from a walk and looking forward to going down to the kitchen before dinner, a band of red sky over the sea, compact and clear-cut as a layer of aspic over meat, then, a little later, over a sea already cold and blue like a grey mullet, a sky of the same pink as the salmon that we should presently be ordering at Rivebelle reawakened the pleasure which I was to derive from the act of dressing to go out to dinner. Over the sea, quite near the shore, were trying to rise, one beyond another, at wider and wider intervals, vapours of a pitchy blackness but also of the polish and consistency of agate, of a visible weight, so much so that the highest among them, poised at the end of their contorted stem and overreaching the centre of gravity of the pile that had hitherto supported them, seemed on the point of bringing down in ruin this lofty structure already half the height of the sky, and of precipitating it into the sea. The sight of a ship that was moving away like a nocturnal traveller gave me the same impression that I had had in the train of being set free from the necessity of sleep and from confinement in a bedroom. Not that I felt myself a prisoner in the room in which I now was, since in another hour I should have left it and be getting into the carriage. I threw myself down on the bed; and, just as if I had been lying in a berth on board one of those steamers which I could see quite near to me and which, when night came, it would be strange to see stealing slowly out into the darkness, like shadowy and silent but unsleeping swans, I was on all sides surrounded by pictures of the sea.
不久，白昼越来越短，当我走进房间的那一刻，紫罗兰色的天空似乎烙上了倾斜在海面上的太阳的僵硬的、几何形状的、移动的、光辉的形象（就像某种神奇的标志、某种神秘的幽灵的代表）。从地平线的铰链处望去，一幅神圣的图画倾斜在高高的祭坛上，而西方天空的不同部分暴露在沿着墙壁延伸的低矮桃花心木书架的玻璃前面，我在脑海中回想起那奇妙的世界。他们所脱离的画作，看起来就像是某个老大师很久以前为某个场景所创作的不同场景。神社上的兄弟会，其单独的面板现在并排展示在博物馆画廊的墙上，这样参观者的想象力就可以将它们恢复到其在 reredos 的 predella 上的位置。几周后，当我上楼时，太阳已经落山了。就像我以前在贡布雷看到的那样，在各各他山后面，当我散步回家，期待着晚饭前去厨房时，海面上的一抹红色天空，紧凑而清晰，就像肉上铺上一层肉冻，然后，过了一会儿，在已经寒冷而蓝色的大海上，就像一条灰鲻鱼一样，天空的粉红色与我们现在应该在里维贝尔点的鲑鱼一样，重新唤醒了我即将获得的快乐从穿衣打扮到出去吃饭。 海面上，离岸很近的地方，我们正试图以越来越大的间隔，一个接一个地升起，蒸气呈漆黑，但也有玛瑙的光泽和稠度，重量可见，如此之大，以致于最高的蒸气。其中，它们在扭曲的茎的末端保持平衡，超出了迄今为止支撑它们的桩的重心，似乎即将摧毁这个已经有一半天空高度的高耸结构，并将其倾倒。进入大海。一艘船像夜间行人一样远去的景象给我的印象就像我在火车上一样，摆脱了睡眠的需要，摆脱了卧室的束缚。我并不觉得自己是我现在所在的房间里的囚犯，因为再过一个小时我就应该离开它并进入马车。我扑倒在床上；就好像我躺在其中一艘轮船的泊位上，我可以看到它离我很近，当夜幕降临时，看到它慢慢地潜入黑暗中会很奇怪，就像阴影和寂静一样但不眠的天鹅，我四面八方都被大海的照片所包围。

But as often as not they were, indeed, only pictures; I forgot that below their coloured expanse was hollowed the sad desolation of the beach, travelled by the restless evening breeze whose breath I had so anxiously felt on my arrival at Balbec; besides, even in my room, being wholly taken up with thoughts of the girls whom I had seen go past, I was no longer in a state of mind calm or disinterested enough to allow the formation of any really deep impression of beauty. The anticipation of dinner at Rivebelle made my mood more frivolous still, and my mind, dwelling at such moments upon the surface of the body which I was going to dress up so as to try to appear as pleasing as possible in the feminine eyes which would be scrutinising me in the brilliantly lighted restaurant, was incapable of putting any depth behind the colour of things. And if, beneath my window, the unwearying, gentle flight of sea-martins and swallows had not arisen like a playing fountain, like living fireworks, joining the intervals between their soaring rockets with the motionless white streaming lines of long horizontal wakes of foam, without the charming miracle of this natural and local phenomenon, which brought into touch with reality the scenes that I had before my eyes, I might easily have believed that they were no more than a selection, made afresh every day, of paintings which were shewn quite arbitrarily in the place in which I happened to be and without having any necessary connexion with that place. At one time it was an exhibition of Japanese colour-prints: beside the neat disc of sun, red and round as the moon, a yellow cloud seemed a lake against which black swords were outlined like the trees upon its shore; a bar of a tender pink which I had never seen again after my first paint-box swelled out into a river on either bank of which boats seemed to be waiting high and dry for some one to push them down and set them afloat. And with the contemptuous, bored, frivolous glance of an amateur or a woman hurrying through a picture gallery between two social engagements, I would say to myself: ‘Curious sunset, this; it’s different from what they usually are but after all I’ve seen them just as fine, just as remarkable as this.’ I had more pleasure on evenings when a ship, absorbed and liquefied by the horizon so much the same in colour as herself (an Impressionist exhibition this time) that it seemed to be also of the same matter, appeared as if some one had simply cut out with a pair of scissors her bows and the rigging in which she tapered into a slender filigree from the vaporous blue of the sky. Sometimes the ocean filled almost the whole of my window, when it was enlarged and prolonged by a band of sky edged at the top only by a line that was of the same blue as the sea, so that I supposed it all to be still sea, and the change in colour due only to some effect of light and shade. Another day the sea was painted only in the lower part of the window, all the rest of which was so filled with innumerable clouds, packed one against another in horizontal bands, that its panes seemed to be intended, for some special purpose or to illustrate a special talent of the artist, to present a ‘Cloud Study,’ while the fronts of the various bookcases shewing similar clouds but in another part of the horizon and differently coloured by the light, appeared to be offering as it were the repetition—of which certain of our contemporaries are so fond—of one and the same effect always observed at different hours but able now in the immobility of art to be seen all together in a single room, drawn in pastel and mounted under glass. And sometimes to a sky and sea uniformly grey a rosy touch would be added with an exquisite delicacy, while a little butterfly that had gone to sleep at the foot of the window seemed to be attaching with its wings at the corner of this ‘Harmony in Grey and Pink’ in the Whistler manner the favourite signature of the Chelsea master. The pink vanished; there was nothing now left to look at. I rose for a moment and before lying down again drew dose the inner curtains. Above them I could see from my bed the ray of light that still remained, growing steadily fainter and thinner, but it was without any feeling of sadness, without any regret for its passing that I thus allowed to die above the curtains the hour at which, as a rule, I was seated at table, for I knew that this day was of another kind than ordinary days, longer, like those arctic days which night interrupts for a few minutes only; I knew that from the chrysalis of the dusk was preparing to emerge, by a radiant metamorphosis, the dazzling light of the Rivebelle restaurant. I said to myself: ‘It is time”; I stretched myself on the bed, and rose, and finished dressing; and I found a charm in these idle moments, lightened of every material burden, in which while down below the others were dining I was employing the forces accumulated during the inactivity of this last hour of the day only in drying my washed body, in putting on a dinner jacket, in tying my tie, in making all those gestures which were already dictated by the anticipated pleasure of seeing again some woman whom I had noticed, last time, at Rivebelle, who had seemed to be watching me, had perhaps left the table for a moment only in the hope that I would follow her; it was with joy that I enriched myself with all these attractions so as to give myself, whole, alert, willing, to a new life, free, without cares, in which I would lean my hesitations upon the calm strength of Saint-Loup, and would choose from among the different species of animated nature and the produce of every land those which, composing the unfamiliar dishes that my companion would at once order, might have tempted my appetite or my imagination. And then at the end of the season came the days when I could no longer pass indoors from the ‘front’ through the dining-room; its windows stood open no more, for it was night now outside and the swarm of poor folk and curious idlers, attracted by the blaze of light which they might not reach, hung in black clusters chilled by the north wind to the luminous sliding walls of that buzzing hive of glass.
但实际上，它们往往只是图片；事实上，它们只是图片而已。我忘记了，在它们五彩斑斓的广阔下面，是海滩的悲伤荒凉，在不安的晚风中，我在到达巴尔贝克时焦急地感受到了它的呼吸；此外，即使在我的房间里，我全神贯注于我所看到的那些经过的女孩，我也不再处于平静或无私的心态，足以形成任何真正深刻的美的印象。期待在里维贝尔吃晚饭，让我的心情变得更加轻浮，而我的思绪，在这样的时刻，停留在我要打扮的身体表面上，以便在女性眼中尽可能显得讨人喜欢，当我在灯火辉煌的餐厅里审视我时，我无法在事物的颜色背后表现出任何深度。如果，在我的窗下，海燕和燕子不知疲倦、温柔地飞翔，像喷泉一样升起，像活生生的烟花，将它们翱翔的火箭之间的间隔与长长的水平泡沫尾流静止的白色流线连接起来，如果没有这种自然和当地现象的迷人奇迹，它使我眼前的场景与现实产生联系，我可能很容易相信它们只不过是每天重新制作的精选画作。相当随意地发生在我碰巧所在的地方，并且与那个地方没有任何必然的联系。 曾几何时，这是日本彩画的展览：在像月亮一样红圆的整齐的太阳旁边，一朵黄色的云像一个湖，映衬着黑色的剑，就像湖边的树木一样；自从我的第一个颜料盒膨胀到河里后，我就再也没有见过那条嫩粉色的条子，河两岸的船只似乎在高处等待着有人把它们推下去，让它们漂浮起来。当一个业余爱好者或一个女人在两次社交活动之间匆匆浏览画廊时，我会用轻蔑、无聊、轻浮的目光对自己说：‘奇怪的日落，这个；这真是令人好奇的日落。 “这与它们通常的样子不同，但毕竟我见过它们同样精美，同样非凡。”在晚上，当一艘船被地平线吸收和液化时，我会更高兴，它的颜色与她自己的颜色非常相似（这次的印象派展览）似乎也是同样的事情，似乎有人只是用一把剪刀剪出了她的蝴蝶结和索具，其中她从雾气腾腾的蓝色中逐渐变细成细长的花丝。天空。有时，海洋几乎填满了我的整个窗户，当它被一条天空带放大和拉长时，顶部只有一条与大海一样蓝色的线，所以我认为这一切都是大海，以及仅由于某些光和阴影的影响而导致的颜色变化。 另一天，大海只画在窗户的下部，而窗户的其余部分则充满了无数的云彩，一层一层地堆积在水平带中，以至于它的窗格似乎是为了某种特殊目的或为了说明而设计的。艺术家的特殊才能，呈现了一个“云研究”，而各个书柜的正面都展示着相似的云，但在地平线的另一部分，并在光线的作用下呈现出不同的颜色，似乎是在重复——我们的某些同时代人非常喜欢这种效果——总是在不同的时间观察到同一个效果，但现在可以在艺术的静止状态中在一个房间里看到所有这些效果，用粉彩绘制并安装在玻璃下。有时，统一灰色的天空和海洋会增添一丝玫瑰色的精致，而窗脚下沉睡的小蝴蝶，似乎正用翅膀附着在这“和谐”的角落里。惠斯勒球衣中的“灰色和粉色”是这位切尔西大师最喜欢的签名。粉红色消失了；现在已经没有什么可看的了。我站了起来，然后再次躺下，拉上了内层的窗帘。在他们的上方，我可以从床上看到仍然残留的光线，逐渐变得越来越暗淡，但它没有任何悲伤的感觉，没有任何遗憾，因此我允许在窗帘上方死去。通常，我坐在餐桌旁，因为我知道这一天与平常的日子不同，更长，就像北极的白天，夜晚只中断几分钟；我知道，里维贝尔餐厅的耀眼光芒即将从黄昏的蛹中破茧而出，焕发着光芒。 我对自己说：“是时候了”；我在床上伸了个懒腰，站了起来，穿好衣服。我在这些闲暇的时刻发现了一种魅力，减轻了一切物质负担，当下面其他人正在用餐时，我正在利用一天中最后一个小时无所事事中积累的力量，只是为了擦干我洗过的身体，在穿上晚礼服，系领带，做出所有这些手势，这些手势都是由再次见到我上次在里维贝尔时注意到的某个女人所带来的预期的快乐所决定的，她似乎在注视着我，也许已经离开了在桌子上呆了一会儿，只希望我能跟着她；我很高兴地用所有这些吸引人的东西丰富了自己，以便让自己完整，警觉，愿意，进入新的生活，自由，无忧无虑，在这种生活中，我将把我的犹豫托付给圣卢的平静力量，我会从生机勃勃的大自然的不同物种和各地的农产品中进行选择，制作出我的同伴会立即点的陌生菜肴，这些菜肴可能会激发我的胃口或想象力。然后在季节结束时，我再也无法从“前面”穿过餐厅进入室内了。它的窗户不再开着，因为现在外面已经是夜晚了，一群群穷人和好奇的闲人，被他们可能无法到达的耀眼的光芒所吸引，在北风的寒冷中成群结队地挂在发光的滑动墙壁上。那个嗡嗡作响的玻璃蜂巢。

There was a knock at my door; it was Aimé who had come upstairs in person with the latest lists of visitors.
有人敲我的门；是艾梅亲自带着最新的访客名单上楼来的。

Aimé could not go away without telling me that Dreyfus was guilty a thousand times over. ‘It will all come out,’ he assured me, ‘not this year, but next. It was a gentleman who’s very thick with the General Staff, told me. I asked him if they wouldn’t decide to bring it all to light at once, before the year is out. He laid down his cigarette,’ Aimé went on, acting the scene for my benefit, and, shaking his head and his forefinger as his informant had done, as much as to say: ‘We mustn’t expect too much!’—‘‘Not this year, Aimé,’ those were his very words, putting his hand on my shoulder, ‘It isn’t possible. But next Easter, yes!’’ And Aimé tapped me gently on my shoulder, saying, ‘You see, I’m letting you have it exactly as he told me,’ whether because he was flattered at this act of familiarity by a distinguished person or so that I might better appreciate, with a full knowledge of the facts, the worth of the arguments and our grounds for hope.
艾梅离开时必须告诉我德雷福斯有一千倍的罪孽。 “一切都会水落石出，”他向我保证，“不是今年，而是明年。”他告诉我，这是一位与总参谋部关系非常密切的绅士。我问他他们是否不会决定在今年结束之前立即将这一切公之于众。他放下了香烟，”艾梅继续说道，为了我的利益而表演这一场景，并且像他的线人那样摇着头和食指，几乎是在说：“我们不能期望太多！”——” “今年不行，艾梅，”这就是他的原话，他把手放在我的肩膀上，“这是不可能的。”但下个复活节，是的！”艾梅轻轻地拍了拍我的肩膀，说道，“你看，我让你完全按照他告诉我的那样得到它，”也许是因为他对一位杰出的人物的这种熟悉行为感到受宠若惊。或这样我可以在充分了解事实的情况下更好地理解论点的价值以及我们希望的理由。

It was not without a slight throb of the heart that on the first page of the list I caught sight of the words ‘Simonet and family.’ I had in me a store of old dream-memories which dated from my childhood, and in which all the tenderness (tenderness that existed in my heart, but, when my heart felt it, was not distinguishable from anything else) was wafted to me by a person as different as possible from myself. This person, once again I fashioned her, utilising for the purpose the name Simonet and the memory of the harmony that had reigned between the young bodies which I had seen displaying themselves on the beach, in a sportive procession worthy of Greek art or of Giotto. I knew not which of these girls was Mlle. Simonet, if indeed any of them were so named, but I did know that I was loved by Mlle. Simonet and that I was going, with Saint-Loup’s help, to attempt to know her. Unfortunately, having on that condition only obtained an extension of his leave, he was obliged to report for duty every day at Doncières: but to make him forsake his military duty I had felt that I might count, more even than on his friendship for myself, on that same curiosity, as a human naturalist, which I myself had so often felt—even without having seen the person mentioned, and simply on hearing some one say that there was a pretty cashier at a fruiterer’s—to acquaint myself with a new variety of feminine beauty. But that curiosity I had been wrong in hoping to excite in Saint-Loup by speaking to him of my band of girls. For it had been and would long remain paralysed in him by his love for that actress whose lover he was. And even if he had felt it lightly stirring him he would have repressed it, from an almost superstitious belief that on his own fidelity might depend that of his mistress. And so it was without any promise from him that he would take an active interest in my girls that we started out to dine at Rivebelle.
当我在清单的第一页上看到“西蒙内特和家人”这几个字时，心里不禁感到一阵轻微的悸动。所有的温柔（存在于我心中的温柔，但是，当我的心感受到它时，它与其他任何东西都没有区别）都是由一个与我自己尽可能不同的人向我飘来的。这个人，我再次塑造了她，为此目的利用了西蒙内特这个名字，以及我所看到的年轻身体之间的和谐记忆，这些年轻身体在海滩上展示自己，在一个配得上希腊艺术或乔托的运动队伍中。我不知道这些女孩中哪一个是女士。西蒙内特，如果他们中确实有人这么命名的话，但我确实知道我被夫人所爱。西蒙内，我打算在圣卢的帮助下尝试了解她。不幸的是，在这种情况下，他只获得了延长假期，他不得不每天到东西埃报到：但为了让他放弃他的军事职责，我觉得我可以指望他，甚至比他对我自己的友谊更重要出于同样的好奇心，作为一名人类博物学家，我自己经常有这种感觉——即使没有看到提到的那个人，只是听到有人说水果店里有一位漂亮的收银员——让自己熟悉一种新的东西各种女性美。但我希望通过向圣卢讲述我的女孩乐队来激起他的好奇心，这是错误的。因为他对那位女演员的爱已经并将长期麻痹在他身上，他是这位女演员的情人。即使他感觉到它轻轻地触动了他，他也会压抑它，因为他近乎迷信地相信，他自己的忠诚可能取决于他情妇的忠诚。 因此，我们开始在里维贝尔吃饭时，他并没有承诺他会对我的女儿们产生积极的兴趣。

At first, when we arrived there, the sun used just to have set, but it was light still; in the garden outside the restaurant, where the lamps had not yet been lighted, the heat of the day fell and settled, as though in a vase along the sides of which the transparent, dusky jelly of the air seemed of such consistency that a tall rose-tree fastened against the dim wall which it streaked with pink veins, looked like the arborescence that one sees at the heart of an onyx. Presently night had always fallen when we left the carriage, often indeed before we started from Balbec if the evening was wet and we had put off sending for the carriage in the hope of the weather’s improving. But on those days it was without any sadness that I listened to the wind howling, I knew that it did not mean the abandonment of my plans, imprisonment in my bedroom; I knew that in the great dining-room of the restaurant, which we would enter to the sound of the music of the gypsy band, the innumerable lamps would triumph easily over darkness and chill, by applying to them their broad cauteries of molten gold, and I jumped light-heartedly after Saint-Loup into the closed carriage which stood waiting for us in the rain. For some time past the words of Bergotte, when he pronounced himself positive that, in spite of all I might say, I had been created to enjoy, pre-eminently, the pleasures of the mind, had restored to me, with regard to what I might succeed in achieving later on, a hope that was disappointed afresh every day by the boredom that I felt on setting myself down before a writing-table to start work on a critical essay or a novel. ‘After all,’ I said to myself, ‘possibly the pleasure that its author has found in writing it is not the infallible test of the literary value of a page; it may be only an accessory, one that is often to be found superadded to that value, but the want of which can have no prejudicial effect on it. Perhaps some of the greatest masterpieces were written yawning.’ My grandmother set my doubts at rest by telling me that I should be able to work and should enjoy working as soon as my health improved. And, our doctor having thought it only prudent to warn me of the grave risks to which my state of health might expose me, and having outlined all the hygienic precaution that I ought to take to avoid any accident—I subordinated all my pleasures to an object which I judged to be infinitely more important than them, that of becoming strong enough to be able to bring into being the work which I had, possibly, within me; I had been exercising over myself, ever since I had come to Balbec, a scrupulous and constant control. Nothing would have induced me, there, to touch the cup of coffee which would have robbed me of the night’s sleep that was necessary if I was not to be tired next day. But as soon as we reached Rivebelle, immediately, what with the excitement of a new pleasure, and finding myself in that different zone into which the exception to our rule of life takes us after it has cut the thread, patiently spun throughout so many days, that was guiding us towards wisdom—as though there were never to be any such thing as to-morrow, nor any lofty aims to be realised, vanished all that exact machinery of prudent hygienic measures which had been working to safeguard them. A waiter was offering to take my coat, whereupon Saint-Loup asked: ‘You’re sure you won’t be cold? Perhaps you’d better keep it: it’s not very warm in here.’
起初，我们到达那里时，太阳刚刚落山，但天还很亮；餐厅外的花园里，灯还没有点着，白天的炎热降下来并稳定下来，就像在一个花瓶里，沿着花瓶的两侧，透明、暗淡的空气似乎如此粘稠，以至于一个高大的玫瑰树紧靠在昏暗的墙壁上，墙上布满了粉红色的纹理，看起来就像人们在玛瑙中心看到的树状结构。当我们离开马车时，夜幕总是降临，实际上常常是在我们从巴尔贝克出发之前，如果晚上潮湿，我们就推迟了马车的发送，希望天气好转。但那些日子里，我听着风的呼啸，没有任何悲伤，我知道这并不意味着放弃我的计划，囚禁在我的卧室里；我知道，在餐厅的大餐厅里，我们将在吉普赛乐队的音乐声中进入，无数的灯将轻松战胜黑暗和寒冷，通过将它们广泛的熔金烧灼，我跟着圣卢，轻松地跳进了在雨中等待着我们的封闭的马车。贝戈特的话已经有一段时间了，当他肯定地说，尽管我可能会说，我生来就是为了享受，尤其是，心灵的快乐，已经恢复了我，关于什么我可能会在以后成功地实现这个希望，但每天我在写字台前开始写一篇评论文章或一本小说时感到无聊，而每天都会再次失望。 “毕竟，”我对自己说，“作者在写作中找到的乐趣可能不是对一页的文学价值的可靠检验；而是对这一页的文学价值的检验。”它可能只是一个配件，经常被发现会增加其价值，但缺少它不会对其产生不利影响。也许一些最伟大的杰作是在打哈欠时写成的。”祖母告诉我，一旦我的健康状况好转，我就应该能够工作并且应该享受工作，从而打消了我的疑虑。而且，我们的医生认为警告我我的健康状况可能使我面临的严重风险才是明智的做法，并概述了我应该采取的所有卫生预防措施，以避免发生任何事故——我把所有的快乐都放在了我认为这个目标比他们更重要，那就是变得足够强大，能够完成我可能在我内心所做的工作；自从我来到巴尔贝克以来，我一直在严格地、持续地控制自己。在那里，没有什么会吸引我去碰那杯咖啡，因为这会剥夺我晚上的睡眠，如果我不想第二天感到疲倦的话，睡眠是必要的。但当我们到达里维贝尔时，立刻，带着一种新的快乐的兴奋，发现自己处于一个不同的区域，在我们的生活规则的例外切断了线之后，我们进入了这个区域，耐心地旋转了这么多天，它引导我们走向智慧——就好像永远不会有明天这样的事情，也不会实现任何崇高的目标，消失了所有一直在努力保护它们的谨慎卫生措施的精确机制。一个服务员主动提出拿走我的外套，圣卢问道：“你确定你不会冷吗？” 也许你最好保留它：这里不太暖和。’

‘No, no,’ I assured him; and perhaps I did not feel the cold; but however that might be, I no longer knew the fear of falling ill, the necessity of not dying, the importance of work. I gave up my coat; we entered the dining-room to the sound of some warlike march played by the gipsies, we advanced between two rows of tables laid for dinner as along an easy path of glory, and, feeling a happy glow imparted to our bodies by the rhythms of the orchestra which rendered us its military honours, gave us this unmerited triumph, we concealed it beneath a grave and frozen mien, beneath a languid, casual gait, so as not to be like those music-hall ‘mashers’ who, having wedded a ribald verse to a patriotic air, come running on to the stage with the martial countenance of a victorious general.
“不，不，”我向他保证。也许我并没有感到寒冷；但无论如何，我不再知道对生病的恐惧、不死的必要性、工作的重要性。我放弃了我的外套；我们在吉普赛人演奏的好战进行曲的声音中走进了餐厅，我们在两排准备晚餐的桌子之间前进，就像沿着一条轻松的荣耀之路一样，感觉到一种快乐的光芒在我们的身体上散发着幸福的光芒。管弦乐队给我们带来了军事荣誉，给了我们这种不值得的胜利，我们把它隐藏在严肃和冰冷的神情之下，隐藏在慵懒、随意的步态之下，以免像那些音乐厅的“捣碎者”一样，嫁给了一个粗俗的诗句带着爱国的气息，带着胜利将军的威武表情跑上舞台。

>From that moment I was a new man, who was no longer my grandmother’s grandson and would remember her only when it was time to get up and go, but the brother, for the time being, of the waiters who were going to bring us our dinner.
>从那一刻起，我变成了一个新人，不再是祖母的孙子，只有在起床离开的时候才会想起她，而暂时是要带我们来的服务员的兄弟我们的晚餐。

The dose of beer—all the more, that of champagne—which at Balbec I should not have ventured to take in a week, albeit to my calm and lucid consciousness the flavour of those beverages represented a pleasure clearly appreciable, since it was also one that could easily be sacrificed, I now imbibed at a sitting, adding to it a few drops of port wine, too much distracted to be able to taste it, and I gave the violinist who had just been playing the two louis which I had been saving up for the last month with a view to buying something, I could not remember what. Several of the waiters, set going among the tables, were flying along at full speed, each carrying on his outstretched palms a dish which it seemed to be the object of this kind of race not to let fall. And in fact the chocolate soufflés arrived at their destination unspilled, the potatoes à l’anglaise, in spite of the pace which ought to have sent them flying, came arranged as at the start round the Pauilhac lamb. I noticed one of these servants, very tall, plumed with superb black locks, his face dyed in a tint that suggested rather certain species of rare birds than a human being, who, running without pause (and, one would have said, without purpose) from one end of the room to the other, made me think of one of those macaws which fill the big aviaries in zoological gardens with their gorgeous colouring and incomprehensible agitation. Presently the spectacle assumed an order, in my eyes at least, growing at once more noble and more calm. All this dizzy activity became fixed in a quiet harmony. I looked at the round tables whose innumerable assemblage filled the restaurant like so many planets as planets are represented in old allegorical pictures. Moreover, there seemed to be some irresistibly attractive force at work among these divers stars, and at each table the diners had eyes only for the tables at which they were not sitting, except perhaps some wealthy amphitryon who, having managed to secure a famous author, was endeavouring to extract from him, thanks to the magic properties of the turning table, a few unimportant remarks at which the ladies marvelled. The harmony of these astral tables did not prevent the incessant revolution of the countless servants who, because instead of being seated like the diners they were on their feet, performed their evolutions in a more exalted sphere. No doubt they were running, one to fetch the hors d’oeuvres, another to change the wine or with clean glasses. But despite these special reasons, their perpetual course among the round tables yielded, after a time, to the observer the law of its dizzy but ordered circulation. Seated behind a bank of flowers, two horrible cashiers, busy with endless calculations, seemed two witches occupied in forecasting by astrological signs the disasters that might from time to time occur in this celestial vault fashioned according to the scientific conceptions of the middle ages.
啤酒的剂量——尤其是香槟的剂量——在巴尔贝克，我一周内本不应该冒险喝的，尽管对我平静而清醒的意识来说，这些饮料的味道显然代表着一种明显的愉悦，因为它也是一种很容易被牺牲，我现在坐下来喝了几滴，加了几滴波特酒，太心烦意乱了，无法品尝它，我给了刚刚演奏的小提琴手我一直在演奏的两个路易上个月存钱是为了买东西，但我不记得买什么了。几个侍者在桌子之间全速飞行，每个人伸出的手掌上都拿着一个盘子，似乎是这种竞赛的目标，不让盘子掉下来。事实上，巧克力蛋奶酥到达目的地时没有溢出，而英式土豆，尽管速度本应让它们飞起来，但还是像开始时一样围绕着波亚克羔羊排列着。我注意到其中一个仆人，很高，一头乌黑的羽毛，他的脸染上一种颜色，让人联想到某种稀有鸟类，而不是人类，他不停地奔跑（而且，有人会说，没有目的） ）从房间的一端到另一端，让我想起了一只金刚鹦鹉，它们以绚丽的色彩和难以理解的躁动填满了动物园的大鸟舍。至少在我眼中，这一景象立刻变得更加高贵、更加平静。所有这些令人眼花缭乱的活动都在一种安静的和谐中固定下来。我看着圆桌，无数的组合充满了餐厅，就像古老的寓言图片中所代表的行星一样多。 此外，这些不同的明星之间似乎有某种不可抗拒的吸引力在起作用，每张桌子上的食客都只盯着自己没有坐的桌子，也许除了一些富有的安菲特里翁外，他们成功地请到了一位著名作家。借助转盘的神奇特性，他试图从他嘴里套出几句让女士们惊叹不已的无关紧要的话。这些星体餐桌的和谐并没有阻止无数仆人不断的革命，因为他们不是像食客那样坐着，而是站着，而是在一个更崇高的领域进行进化。毫无疑问，他们在奔跑，一个去拿开胃小菜，另一个去换酒或换干净的杯子。但尽管有这些特殊的原因，它们在圆桌会议中的永恒路线，在一段时间后，让观察者发现了其令人眼花缭乱但秩序井然的循环规律。花丛后面坐着两个可怕的收银员，忙着无休无止的计算，就像是两个女巫，正忙着用占星术来预测这个按照中世纪科学观念打造的天穹可能时不时发生的灾难。

And I rather pitied all the diners because I felt that for them the round tables were not planets and that they had not cut through the scheme of things one of those sections which deliver us from the bondage of appearances and enable us to perceive analogies. They thought that they were dining with this or that person, that the dinner would cost roughly so much, and that to-morrow they would begin all over again. And they appeared absolutely unmoved by the progress through their midst of a train of young assistants who, having probably at that moment no urgent duty, advanced processionally bearing rolls of bread in baskets. Some of them, the youngest, stunned by the cuffs which the head waiters administered to them as they passed, fixed melancholy eyes upon a distant dream and were consoled only if some visitor from the Balbec hotel in which they had once been employed, recognising them, said a few words to them, telling them in person to take away the champagne which was not fit to drink, an order that filled them with pride.
我相当可怜所有的食客，因为我觉得对他们来说，圆桌不是行星，他们没有切入事物的计划，而这些部分将我们从表象的束缚中解放出来，使我们能够感知类比。他们以为他们正在和这个或那个人一起吃饭，晚餐的费用大约是这么多，明天他们就会重新开始。他们似乎对在一队年轻助手中间的进展完全不为所动，这些助手当时可能没有紧急任务，拿着装在篮子里的面包卷列队前进。他们中最年轻的一些人，在路过时被领班给他们的手铐惊呆了，忧郁地注视着遥远的梦想，只有当他们曾经受雇的巴尔贝克酒店的某个访客认出他们时，他们才会感到安慰。 ，对他们说了几句话，亲自吩咐他们把不适合喝的香槟拿走，这个命令让他们充满了自豪。

I could hear the twinging of my nerves, in which there was a sense of comfort independent of the external objects that might have produced it, a comfort which the least shifting of my body or of my attention was enough to make me feel, just as to a shut eye a slight pressure gives the sensation of colour. I had already drunk a good deal of port wine, and if I now asked for more it was not so much with a view to the comfort which the additional glasses would bring me as an effect of the comfort produced by the glasses that had gone before. I allowed the music itself to guide to each of its notes my pleasure which, meekly following, rested on each in turn. If, like one of those chemical industries by means of which are prepared in large quantities bodies which in a state of nature come together only by accident and very rarely, this restaurant at Rivebelle united at one and the same moment more women to tempt me with beckoning vistas of happiness than the hazard of walks and drives would have made me encounter in a year; on the other hand, this music that greeted our ears,—arrangements of waltzes, of German operettas, of music-hall songs, all of them quite new to me—was itself like an ethereal resort of pleasure superimposed upon the other and more intoxicating still. For these tunes, each as individual as a woman, were not keeping, as she would have kept, for some privileged person, the voluptuous secret which they contained: they offered me their secrets, ogled me, came up to me with affected or vulgar movements, accosted me, caressed me as if I had suddenly become more seductive, more powerful and more rich; I indeed found in these tunes an element of cruelty; because any such thing as a disinterested feeling for beauty, a gleam of intelligence was unknown to them; for them physical pleasures alone existed. And they are the most merciless of hells, the most gateless and imprisoning for the jealous wretch to whom they present that pleasure—that pleasure which the woman he loves is enjoying with another—as the only thing that exists in the world for her who is all the world to him. But while I was humming softly to myself the notes of this tune, and returning its kiss, the pleasure peculiar to itself which it made me feel became so dear to me that I would have left my father and mother, to follow it through the singular world which it constructed in the invisible, in lines instinct with alternate languor and vivacity. Although such a pleasure as this is not calculated to enhance the value of the person to whom it comes, for it is perceived by him alone, and although whenever, in the course of our life, we have failed to attract a woman who has caught sight of us, she could not tell whether at that moment we possessed this inward and subjective felicity which, consequently, could in no way have altered the judgment that she passed on us, I felt myself more powerful, almost irresistible. It seemed to me that my love was no longer something unattractive, at which people might smile, but had precisely the touching beauty, the seductiveness of this music, itself comparable to a friendly atmosphere in which she whom I loved and I were to meet, suddenly grown intimate.
我能听到我的神经的抽动，其中有一种独立于可能产生这种感觉的外部物体的舒适感，这种舒适感只要我的身体或我的注意力稍微移动一下就足以让我感觉到，就像闭上眼睛，轻微的压力就会产生颜色的感觉。我已经喝了很多波特酒了，如果我现在要求更多的话，也并不是为了增加额外的酒杯给我带来的舒适感，而是之前的酒杯带来的舒适感的效果。 。我让音乐本身引导我的快乐，顺从地跟随，依次停留在每个音符上。如果像那些化学工业之一那样，在自然状态下制备大量的身体，这些身体只是偶然且很少聚集在一起，那么里维贝尔的这家餐厅在同一时刻联合了更多的女人来诱惑我一年之内我所遇到的比步行和开车的危险更令人向往的幸福景象；另一方面，这种映入我们耳朵的音乐——华尔兹、德国轻歌剧、音乐厅歌曲的改编，所有这些对我来说都是新的——本身就像一种空灵的快乐胜地，叠加在其他更令人陶醉的享受之上。仍然。 因为这些曲调，每一个都像一个女人一样独立，并没有像她为某些特权人士保留的那样，保留着它们所包含的性感秘密：他们向我提供了他们的秘密，向我抛媚眼，用做作或粗俗的方式向我走来。动作，跟我搭话，爱抚我，仿佛我突然变得更迷人、更强大、更富有；我确实在这些曲调中发现了残酷的成分；因为他们不知道诸如对美的无私情感、一丝智慧之类的东西。对他们来说，只存在肉体上的快乐。对于那些嫉妒的可怜虫来说，它们是最无情的地狱，是最无门和最囚禁的地狱，它们向这些可怜虫呈现这种快乐——他所爱的女人与另一个女人一起享受的快乐——作为世界上唯一存在于她身上的东西。整个世界都归他所有。但是，当我轻声哼着这首曲子的音符，回应它的吻时，它给我带来的独特的快乐对我来说变得如此珍贵，以至于我会离开我的父母，跟随它度过这奇异的时光。它在无形中构建的世界，符合本能，时而慵懒，时而活泼。尽管这样的快乐并不能提高接受它的人的价值，因为只有他自己才能感受到这种快乐，尽管在我们的一生中，无论何时，我们都未能吸引一个女人看到我们，她无法判断我们在那一刻是否拥有这种内在的、主观的幸福感，因此，这根本无法改变她对我们的判断，我感到自己更加强大，几乎不可抗拒。 在我看来，我的爱情不再是一种平淡无奇、令人微笑的东西，而是具有动人的美感，音乐的诱惑力，它本身就像我和我所爱的她相遇的友好气氛，突然变得亲密起来。

This restaurant was the resort not only of light women; it was frequented also by people in the very best society, who came there for afternoon tea or gave big dinner-parties. The tea-parties were held in a long gallery, glazed and narrow, shaped like a funnel, which led from the entrance hall to the dining-room and was bounded on one side by the garden, from which it was separated (save for a few stone pillars) only by its wall of glass, in which panes would be opened here and there. The result of which, apart from ubiquitous draughts, was sudden and intermittent bursts of sunshine, a dazzling light that made it almost impossible to see the tea-drinkers, so that when they were installed there, at tables crowded pair after pair the whole way along the narrow gully, as they were shot with colours at every movement they made in drinking their tea or in greeting one another, you would have called it a reservoir, a stewpond in which the fisherman has collected all his glittering catch, and the fish, half out of water and bathed in sunlight, dazzle the eye as they mirror an ever-changing iridescence.
这家餐厅不仅是轻奢女性的度假胜地，也是女性的度假胜地。上流社会的人们也经常光顾这里，他们来这里喝下午茶或举办大型晚宴。茶会在一个长长的画廊里举行，画廊有玻璃，狭窄，形状像一个漏斗，从入口大厅通向餐厅，一侧以花园为界，与花园分开（除了一个几根石柱）只靠它的玻璃墙，玻璃墙到处都是开着的。结果，除了无处不在的穿堂风之外，就是突然断断续续的阳光照射，耀眼的光芒让人几乎看不到喝茶的人，所以当他们安装在那里时，桌子上一路挤满了一对又一对的人。沿着狭窄的沟壑，他们喝茶或互相打招呼时的一举一动都被色彩所照射，你会说它是一个水库，一个炖汤池，渔夫在其中收集了所有闪闪发光的渔获，而鱼半露出水面、沐浴在阳光下的它们反射出不断变化的彩虹色，令人眼花缭乱。

A few hours later, during dinner, which, naturally, was served in the dining-room, the lights would be turned on, although it was still quite light out of doors, so that one saw before one’s eyes, in the garden, among summer-houses glimmering in the twilight, like pale spectres of evening, alleys whose greyish verdure was pierced by the last rays of the setting sun and, from the lamp-lit room in which we were dining, appeared through the glass—no longer, as one would have said of the ladies who had been drinking tea there in the afternoon, along the blue and gold corridor, caught in a glittering and dripping net—but like the vegetation of a pale and green aquarium of gigantic size seen by a supernatural light. People began to rise from table; and if each party while their dinner lasted, albeit they spent the whole time examining, recognising, naming the party at the next table, had been held in perfect cohesion about their own, the attractive force that had kept them gravitating round their host of the evening lost its power at the moment when, for coffee, they repaired to the same corridor that had been used for the tea-parties; it often happened that in its passage from place to place some party on the march dropped one or more of its human corpuscles who, having come under the irresistible attraction of the rival party, detached themselves for a moment from their own, in which their places were taken by ladies or gentlemen who had come across to speak to friends before hurrying off with an ‘I really must fly: I’m dining with M. So-and-So.’ And for the moment you would have been reminded, looking at them, of two separate nosegays that had exchanged a few of their flowers. Then the corridor too began to empty. Often, since even after dinner there was still a little light left outside, they left this long corridor unlighted, and, skirted by the trees that overhung it on the other side of the glass, it suggested a pleached alley in a wooded and shady garden. Here and there, in the gloom, a fair diner lingered. As I passed through this corridor one evening on my way out I saw, sitting among a group of strangers, the beautiful Princesse de Luxembourg. I raised my hat without stopping. She remembered me, and bowed her head with a smile; in the air, far above her bowed head, but emanating from the movement, rose melodiously a few words addressed to myself, which must have been a somewhat amplified good-evening, intended not to stop me but simply to complete the gesture, to make it a spoken greeting. But her words remained so indistinct and the sound which was all that I caught was prolonged so sweetly and seemed to me so musical that it seemed as if among the dim branches of the trees a nightingale had begun to sing. If it so happened that, to finish the evening with a party of his friends whom we had met, Saint-Loup decided to go on to the Casino of a neighbouring village, and, taking them with him, put me in a carriage by myself, I would urge the driver to go as fast as he possibly could, so that the minutes might pass less slowly which I must spend without having anyone at hand to dispense me from the obligation myself to provide my sensibility—reversing the engine, so to speak, and emerging from the passivity in which I was caught and held as in the teeth of a machine—with those modifications which, since my arrival at Rivebelle, I had been receiving from other people. The risk of collision with a carriage coming the other way along those lanes where there was barely room for one and it was dark as pitch, the insecurity of the soil, crumbling in many places, at the cliff’s edge, the proximity of its vertical drop to the sea, none of these things exerted on me the slight stimulus that would have been required to bring the vision and the fear of danger within the scope of my reasoning. For just as it is not the desire to become famous but the habit of being laborious that enables us to produce a finished work, so it is not the activity of the present moment but wise reflexions from the past that help us to safeguard the future. But if already, before this point, on my arrival at Rivebelle, I had flung irretrievably away from me those crutches of reason and self-control which help our infirmity to follow the right road, if I now found myself the victim of a sort of moral ataxy, the alcohol that I had drunk, by unduly straining my nerves, gave to the minutes as they came a quality, a charm which did not have the result of leaving me more ready, or indeed more resolute to inhibit them, prevent their coming; for while it made me prefer them a thousand times to anything else in my life, my exaltation made me isolate them from everything else; I was confined to the present, as heroes are or drunkards; eclipsed for the moment, my past no longer projected before me that shadow of itself which we call our future; placing the goal of my life no longer in the realisation of the dreams of that past, but in the felicity of the present moment, I could see nothing now of what lay beyond it. So that, by a contradiction which, however, was only apparent, it was at the very moment in which I was tasting an unfamiliar pleasure, feeling that my life might yet be happy, in which it should have become more precious in my sight; it was at this very moment that, delivered from the anxieties which my life had hitherto contrived to suggest to me, I unhesitatingly abandoned it to the chance of an accident. After all, I was doing no more than concentrate in a single evening the carelessness that, for most men, is diluted throughout their whole existence, in which every day they face, unnecessarily, the dangers of a sea-voyage, of a trip in an aeroplane or motor-car, when there is waiting for them at home the creature whose life their death would shatter, or when there is still stored in the fragile receptacle of their brain that book the approaching publication of which is their one object, now, in life. And so too in the Rivebelle restaurant, on evenings when we just stayed there after dinner, if anyone had come in with the intention of killing me, as I no longer saw, save in a distant prospect too remote to have any reality, my grandmother, my life to come, the books that I was going to write, as I clung now, body and mind, wholly to the scent of the lady at the next table, the politeness of the waiters, the outline of the waltz that the band was playing, as I was glued to my immediate sensation, with no extension beyond its limits, nor any object other than not to be separated from it, I should have died in and with that sensation, I should have let myself be strangled without offering any resistance, without a movement, a bee drugged with tobacco smoke that had ceased to take any thought for preserving the accumulation of its labours and the hopes of its hive.
几个小时后，吃晚饭的时候，当然是在餐厅里吃的，尽管门外天色还很亮，但灯会亮起来，这样人们就可以看到，在花园里，在避暑别墅在暮色中闪闪发光，就像傍晚的苍白幽灵，小巷的灰绿色被夕阳的最后一缕阳光刺穿，从我们用餐的灯火通明的房间透过玻璃显现出来——不再，正如有人会说，下午在那儿喝茶的女士们，沿着蓝色和金色的走廊，被一张闪闪发光、滴着水的网缠住——但就像一个超自然的人看到的一个巨大的、苍白和绿色的水族箱里的植物一样。光。人们开始从餐桌上起身；如果每一个人在他们的晚餐持续时，尽管他们把整个时间都花在检查、识别、命名邻桌的聚会上，但他们对自己的聚会保持着完美的凝聚力，那么吸引力使他们被吸引到他们的主人身边当他们回到茶会时使用的同一条走廊去喝咖啡时，夜晚就失去了力量。经常发生这样的情况：行军中的某个政党在从一个地方到另一个地方的过程中，掉落了一个或多个人体细胞，这些人体细胞受到对手不可抗拒的吸引力的影响，暂时脱离了自己的位置，而他们所在的位置被那些过来与朋友交谈的女士或先生们拍下，然后匆匆离开，说道：“我真的必须飞了：我正在和某某先生一起吃饭。”此时此刻，你会被提醒，看着两个独立的花束交换了几朵花。然后走廊也开始空了。 通常，即使晚饭后，外面仍然有一点光亮，他们就会让这条长长的走廊没有开灯，玻璃另一边悬垂的树木环绕着它，它让人想起树木繁茂、阴凉的花园中的一条绿树成荫的小巷。 。昏暗的夜色中，到处都有一家美丽的餐馆在徘徊。一天晚上，当我出门时经过这条走廊时，我看到美丽的卢森堡公主坐在一群陌生人中间。我没有停下就举起了帽子。她想起了我，微笑着低下头；在空中，在她低下的头上方，但从动作中，悠扬地升起了几句话，对我自己说，这一定是一个有点放大的晚安，目的不是阻止我，而只是为了完成这个手势，让我感到高兴。这是口头问候。但她的话仍然那么模糊，而我所听到的声音却如此甜美地延长，在我看来如此富有音乐性，仿佛在昏暗的树枝间有一只夜莺开始歌唱。如果碰巧，为了与我们认识的朋友们一起结束这个夜晚，圣卢决定去邻村的赌场，并带着他们，把我独自送上一辆马车。 ，我会敦促司机尽可能快地行驶，这样时间就可以过得不那么慢，我必须在没有人在场的情况下度过这段时间，从而免除我自己提供我的感觉的义务——倒转发动机，以便说话，从我被困住的被动状态中走出来，就像被机器的牙齿咬住一样——自从我到达里维贝尔以来，我一直从其他人那里得到这些修改。 沿着那些小巷，几乎没有空间，而且漆黑如沥青，与相反方向的一辆马车相撞的风险，土壤的不安全感，在许多地方崩塌，在悬崖边缘，在垂直落差附近到了大海，这些事情都没有对我产生轻微的刺激，而这些刺激是需要将视野和对危险的恐惧纳入我的推理范围之内的。正如我们能够完成作品的原因不是出名的欲望而是勤奋的习惯一样，帮助我们守护未来的也不是当前的活动而是对过去的明智反思。但是，如果在这之前，在我到达里维贝尔时，我已经无可挽回地抛弃了那些帮助我们的虚弱走上正确道路的理性和自我控制的拐杖，如果我现在发现自己是某种道德上的共济失调，我喝下的酒精，过度紧张了我的神经，在时间到来时赋予了一种品质，一种魅力，但并没有让我更准备好，或者更坚决地抑制它们，阻止它们发生。未来;因为虽然这让我比生命中的其他任何事物都更喜欢它们一千倍，但我的兴奋使我将它们与其他一切隔离开来。我被限制在当下，就像英雄或酒鬼一样；我的过去暂时黯然失色，不再在我面前投射出我们称之为未来的影子。我的人生目标不再是实现过去的梦想，而是当下的幸福，我现在看不到除此之外的一切。 因此，由于一种显而易见的矛盾，就在我品尝到一种陌生的快乐的那一刻，我感到我的生活可能仍然是幸福的，在我看来，它应该变得更加珍贵；但是，在我看来，我的生活本应变得更加珍贵。就在此时此刻，我摆脱了生活中迄今为止一直给我带来的焦虑，毫不犹豫地把它交给了发生意外的机会。毕竟，我只是在一个晚上集中注意力，而对于大多数人来说，这种粗心在他们的一生中都被淡化了，他们每天都不必要地面临着海上航行的危险，在旅途中的危险。一架飞机或汽车，当那个生物在家里等待着他们，他们的死亡将粉碎其生命，或者当他们大脑的脆弱容器中仍然储存着那本书，即将出版的书是他们的唯一目标时，现在， 在生活中。在里维贝尔餐厅也是如此，在我们晚饭后呆在那里的晚上，如果有人进来意图杀死我，正如我不再看到的那样，除了遥远的前景太遥远而没有任何现实，我的祖母，我的未来生活，我要写的书，正如我现在的身体和思想，完全依赖于邻桌女士的气味，服务员的礼貌，乐队演奏的华尔兹的轮廓在玩耍时，因为我被粘在我的直接感觉上，没有超出其限制的延伸，除了与它分离之外，也没有任何其他目标，我应该死在那种感觉中，我应该让自己被勒死而不提供任何东西没有任何运动的抵抗，一只被烟草烟雾麻醉的蜜蜂，已经不再考虑保存其劳动的积累和蜂巢的希望。

I ought here to add that this insignificance into which the most serious matters subsided, by contrast with the violence of my exaltation, came in the end to include Mlle. Simonet and her friends. The enterprise of knowing them seemed to me easy now but hardly worth the trouble, for my immediate sensation alone, thanks to its extraordinary intensity, to the joy that its slightest modifications, its mere continuity provoked, had any importance for me; all the rest—parents, work, pleasures, girls at Balbec weighed with me no more than does a flake of foam in a strong wind that will not let it find a resting place, existed no longer save in relation to this internal power: intoxication makes real for an hour or two a subjective idealism, pure phenomenism; nothing is left now but appearances, nothing exists save as a function of our sublime self. This is not to say that a genuine love, if we have one, cannot survive in such conditions. But we feel so unmistakably, as though in a new atmosphere, that unknown pressures have altered the dimensions of that sentiment that we can no longer consider it in the old way. It is indeed still there and we shall find it, but in a different place, no longer weighing upon us, satisfied by the sensation which the present affords it, a sensation that is sufficient for us, since for what is not actually present we take no thought. Unfortunately the coefficient which thus alters our values alters them only in the hour of intoxication. The people who had lost all their importance, whom we scattered with our breath like soap-bubbles, will to-morrow resume their density; we shall have to try afresh to settle down to work which this evening had ceased to have any significance. A more serious matter still, these mathematics of the morrow, the same as those of yesterday, in whose problems we shall find ourselves inexorably involved, it is they that govern us even in these hours, and we alone are unconscious of their rule. If there should happen to be, near us, a woman, virtuous or inimical, that question so difficult an hour ago—to know whether we should succeed in finding favour with her—seems to us now a million times easier of solution without having become easier in any respect, for it is only in our own sight, in our own inward sight, that we have altered. And she is as much annoyed with us at this moment as we shall be next day at the thought of our having given a hundred francs to the messenger, and for the same reason which in our case has merely been delayed in its operation, namely the absence of intoxication.
我应该在这里补充一点，与我的狂喜相比，最严重的事情逐渐平息，这种微不足道的感觉最终也包括了我的夫人。西蒙内特和她的朋友们。现在，了解它们的事业对我来说似乎很容易，但几乎不值得这么麻烦，因为仅凭我直接的感觉，由于其非凡的强度，以及它最轻微的变化，它的连续性所引起的喜悦，对我来说有任何重要性；其余的一切——父母、工作、快乐、巴尔贝克的女孩，对我来说，就像强风中的一片泡沫，不会让它找到休息的地方，不再存在，除了与这种内在的力量有关：陶醉。在一两个小时内使主观唯心主义、纯粹现象主义成为现实；现在只剩下表象，除了我们崇高自我的功能之外，什么都不存在。这并不是说真爱（如果我们有的话）无法在这种条件下生存。但我们毫无疑问地感觉到，就像在一个新的气氛中一样，未知的压力已经改变了这种情绪的维度，以至于我们不能再以旧的方式来考虑它。它确实还在那里，我们会找到它，但在一个不同的地方，不再给我们带来压力，满足于当下所提供的感觉，一种对我们来说足够的感觉，因为对于实际上并不存在的东西，我们采取了没有想到。不幸的是，改变我们价值观的系数只有在醉酒的时候才会改变。那些已经失去了重要性的人们，我们像肥皂泡一样用呼吸驱散了他们，明天将恢复他们的密度；我们必须重新努力静下心来工作，而今晚已经不再有任何意义了。 更严重的问题是，明天的这些数学，与昨天的数学一样，我们将发现自己无情地卷入其中，正是它们在这些时刻统治着我们，而只有我们没有意识到它们的统治。如果我们附近碰巧有一个女人，无论是善良的还是敌对的，一小时前这个问题还很困难——知道我们是否应该成功地赢得她的青睐——现在对我们来说似乎更容易解决一百万倍，而不必成为在任何方面都比较容易，因为我们改变的只是我们自己的看法，我们内心的看法。她此刻对我们感到非常恼火，就像我们第二天想到我们给了使者一百法郎一样，出于同样的原因，在我们的情况下，它的运作只是被推迟了，即没有中毒。

I knew none of the women who were at Rivebelle and, because they formed a part of my intoxication just as its reflexions form part of a mirror, appeared to me now a thousand times more to be desired than the less and less existent Mlle. Simonet. One of them, young, fair, by herself, with a sad expression on a face framed in a straw hat trimmed with field-flowers, gazed at me for a moment with a dreamy air and struck me as being attractive. Then it was the turn of another, and of a third; finally of a dark one with glowing cheeks. Almost all of them were known, if not to myself, to Saint-Loup.
我不认识里维贝尔的那些女人，因为她们构成了我陶醉的一部分，就像镜子的反射构成了镜子的一部分一样，在我看来，她们比越来越不存在的女士更令人渴望一千倍。西蒙内特.其中一个，年轻，皮肤白皙，独自一人，脸上带着悲伤的表情，戴着一顶饰有田野花朵的草帽，用一种梦幻般的神情凝视了我一会儿，给我留下了迷人的印象。然后轮到另一个，然后是第三个。最后是一个肤色黝黑、脸颊发光的人。几乎所有这些人，即使不是我自己，也是圣卢认识的。

He had, in fact, before he made the acquaintance of his present mistress, lived so much in the restricted world of amorous adventure that all the women who would be dining on these evenings at Rivebelle, where many of them had appeared quite by chance, having come to the coast some to join their lovers, others in the hope of finding fresh lovers there, there was scarcely one that he did not know from having spent—or if not he, one or other of his friends—at least one night in their company. He did not bow to them if they were with men, and they, albeit they looked more at him than at anyone else, for the indifference which he was known to feel towards every woman who was not his mistress gave him in their eyes an exceptional interest, appeared not to know him. But you could hear them whispering: ‘That’s young Saint-Loup. It seems he’s still quite gone on that girl of his. Got it bad, he has. What a dear boy! I think he’s just wonderful; and what style! Some girls do have all the luck, don’t they? And he’s so nice in every way. I saw a lot of him when I was with d’Orléans. They were quite inseparable, those two. He was going the pace, that time. But he’s given it all up now, she can’t complain. She’s had a good run of luck, that she can say. And I ask you, what in the world can he see in her? He must be a bit of a chump, when all’s said and done. She’s got feet like boats, whiskers like an American, and her undies are filthy. I can tell you, a little shop girl would be ashamed to be seen in her knickers. Do just look at his eyes a moment; you would jump into the fire for a man like that. Hush, don’t say a word; he’s seen me; look, he’s smiling. Oh, he remembers me all right. Just you mention my name to him, and see what he says!’ Between these girls and him I surprised a glance of mutual understanding. I should have liked him to introduce me to them, so that I might ask them for assignations and they give them to me, even if I had been unable to keep them. For otherwise their appearance would remain for all time devoid, in my memory, of that part of itself—just as though it had been hidden by a veil—which varies in every woman, which we cannot imagine in any woman until we have actually seen it in her, and which is apparent only in the glance that she directs at us, that acquiesces in our desire and promises that it shall be satisfied. And yet, even when thus reduced, their aspect was for me far more than that of women whom I should have known to be virtuous, and it seemed to me not to be, like theirs, flat, with nothing behind it, fashioned in one piece with no solidity. It was not, of course, for me what it must be for Saint-Loup who, by an act of memory, beneath the indifference, transparent to him, of the motionless features which affected not to know him, or beneath the dull formality of the greeting that might equally well have been addressed to anyone else, could recall, could see, through dishevelled locks, a swooning mouth, a pair of half-closed eyes, a whole silent picture like those that painters, to cheat their visitors’ senses, drape with a decent covering. Undoubtedly, for me who felt that nothing of my personality had penetrated the surface of this woman or that, or would be borne by her upon the unknown ways which she would tread through life, those faces remained sealed. But it was quite enough to know that they did open, for them to seem to me of a price which I should not have set on them had they been but precious medals, instead of lockets within which were hidden memories of love. As for Robert, scarcely able to keep in his place at table, concealing beneath a courtier’s smile his warrior’s thirst for action—when I examined him I could see how closely the vigorous structure of his triangular face must have been modelled on that of his ancestors’ faces, a face devised rather for an ardent bowman than for a delicate student. Beneath his fine skin the bold construction, the feudal architecture were apparent. His head made one think of those old dungeon keeps on which the disused battlements are still to be seen, although inside they have been converted into libraries.
事实上，在他结识现在的情妇之前，他一直生活在爱情冒险的有限世界中，以至于所有这些晚上在里维贝尔吃饭的女人，其中许多人都是偶然出现的，有些人来到海岸与他们的恋人会合，另一些人则希望在那里找到新的恋人，他几乎没有一个不认识的人——或者如果不是他，他的一个或另一个朋友——至少度过了一晚。在他们的公司。如果他们和男人在一起，他不会向他们鞠躬，尽管他们看他的次数比看其他任何人都要多，因为众所周知，他对每个不是他情妇的女人都表现出冷漠的态度，这使他在他们眼中显得与众不同。兴趣，看来不认识他。但你可以听到他们窃窃私语：“那是年轻的圣卢。”看来他对他那个女孩还是很着迷的。搞砸了，他已经搞砸了。多么可爱的男孩啊！我认为他非常棒；什么风格！有些女孩确实拥有所有的运气，不是吗？他在各方面都很好。当我在奥尔良效力时，我经常见到他。他们两个，形影不离。那一次，他正在加快步伐。但他现在已经放弃了一切，她不能抱怨。她可以说，她运气很好。我问你，他到底看上她什么？总而言之，他一定是个傻瓜。她的脚像船，胡须像美国人，她的内衣很脏。我可以告诉你，一个小店里的女孩会因为穿着内裤被人看见而感到羞耻。只看他的眼睛一会儿；为了这样的人，你会跳进火里。嘘，别说话；他看见了我；看，他在微笑。哦，他还记得我。你只要向他提起我的名字，看他怎么说！’在这些女孩和他之间，我惊讶地看到了相互理解的一瞥。我本来希望他能把我介绍给他们，这样我就可以向他们询问作业，他们就会给我，即使我无法保留它们。否则，在我的记忆中，她们的外貌将永远缺乏自身的那部分——就像它被面纱隐藏一样——每个女人的外表都各不相同，除非我们真正亲眼目睹，否则我们无法想象任何女人身上的这一点。它在她身上，只有在她看向我们的眼神中才能明显看出，她默许了我们的愿望并承诺它会得到满足。然而，即使如此，她们的外表对我来说也远远超过了那些我应该知道是有道德的女人，而且在我看来，她们不像她们那样，扁平，背后没有任何东西，是一体成型的。没有坚固性的一块。当然，对我来说，这与圣卢的情况不一样，根据记忆，圣卢在装作不认识他的一动不动的表情下表现出冷漠、透明的表情，或者在他的呆板的形式下面。这种问候同样可能是对其他人说的，可以回忆起来，可以看到，透过凌乱的头发，一张昏厥的嘴，一双半闭的眼睛，一幅完整无声的画，就像画家为了欺骗访客的感官而画的那样。 ，用合适的覆盖物覆盖。毫无疑问，对于我来说，我觉得我的个性没有渗透到这个女人的表面，或者会被她在她将要走过的未知的人生道路上承担，那些面孔仍然是密封的。 但只要知道它们确实打开了，就足够了，因为在我看来，如果它们只是珍贵的奖章，而不是里面隐藏着爱情记忆的挂坠盒，我就不应该给它们定价。至于罗伯特，他在餐桌上几乎无法保持自己的位置，在朝臣的微笑下隐藏着他的战士对行动的渴望——当我检查他时，我可以看到他的三角形脸的充满活力的结构一定是多么接近他的祖先的模型这张脸更像是为热心的弓箭手设计的，而不是为精致的学生设计的。在他细腻的皮肤下，大胆的建筑，封建建筑是显而易见的。他的脑袋让人想起那些古老的地牢，尽管里面已经改建为图书馆，但上面仍然可以看到废弃的城垛。

On our way back to Balbec, of those of the fair strangers to whom he had introduced me I would repeat to myself without a moment’s interruption, and yet almost unconsciously: ‘What a delightful woman!’ as one chimes in with the refrain of a song. I admit that these words were prompted rather by the state of my nerves than by any lasting judgment. It was nevertheless true that if I had had a thousand francs on me and if there had still been a jeweller’s shop open at that hour, I should have bought the lady a ring. When the successive hours of our life are thus displayed against too widely dissimilar backgrounds, we find that we give away too much of ourselves to all sorts of people who next day will not interest us in the least. But we feel that we are still responsible for what we said to them overnight, and that we must honour our promises.
在我们返回巴尔贝克的路上，对于他介绍给我的那些美丽的陌生人，我会毫不犹豫地、几乎无意识地对自己重复一遍：“多么令人愉快的女人啊！”歌曲。我承认我说这些话是出于我的紧张状态，而不是出于任何持久的判断。不过，如果我身上有一千法郎，而且当时还有一家珠宝店开门营业，我确实应该给这位女士买一枚戒指。当我们生命中的连续几个小时如此展现在截然不同的背景下时，我们发现我们向各种各样的人放弃了太多自己，而第二天我们对这些人一点兴趣也没有。但我们觉得我们还是要对昨晚对他们说的话负责，我们必须兑现我们的承诺。

As on these evenings I came back later than usual to the hotel, it was with joy that I recognised, in a room no longer hostile, the bed on which, on the day of my arrival, I had supposed that it would always be impossible for me to find any rest, whereas now my weary limbs turned to it for support; so that, in turn, thighs, hips, shoulders burrowed into, trying to adhere at every angle to, the sheets that covered its mattress, as if my fatigue, like a sculptor, had wished to take a cast of an entire human body. But I could not go to sleep; I felt the approach of morning; peace of mind, health of body, were no longer mine. In my distress it seemed that never should I recapture them. I should have had to sleep for a long time if I were to overtake them. But then, had I begun to doze, I must in any event be awakened in a couple of hours by the symphonic concert on the beach. Suddenly I was asleep, I had fallen into that deep slumber in which are opened to us a return to childhood, the recapture of past years, of lost feelings, the disincarnation, the transmigration of the soul, the evoking of the dead, the illusions of madness, retrogression towards the most elementary of the natural kingdoms (for we say that we often see animals in our dreams, but we forget almost always that we are ourself then an animal deprived of that reasoning power which projects upon things the light of certainty; we present on the contrary to the spectacle of life only a dubious vision, destroyed afresh every moment by oblivion, the former reality fading before that which follows it as one projection of a magic lantern fades before the next as we change the slide), all those mysteries which we imagine ourselves not to know and into which we are in reality initiated almost every night, as we are into the other great mystery of annihilation and resurrection. Rendered more vagabond by the difficulty of digesting my Rivebelle dinner, the successive and flickering illumination of shadowy zones of my past made of me a being whose supreme happiness would have been that of meeting Legrandin, with whom I had just been talking in my dream.
在这些晚上，我比平常晚回到酒店，我很高兴地发现，在一个不再充满敌意的房间里，床上有一张床，在我到达的那天，我以为这永远是不可能的让我找到休息的地方，而现在我疲倦的四肢却转向它寻求支撑；这样一来，大腿、臀部、肩膀依次钻入床垫上的床单，试图从各个角度粘住，就好像我的疲劳，像雕塑家一样，希望为整个人体做一个模型。但我无法入睡；我感觉到早晨的来临；心灵的平静、身体的健康，都不再是我的了。在我的痛苦中，我似乎永远不应该重新抓住它们。如果我要超越他们，我就得睡很长时间了。但是，如果我开始打瞌睡，无论如何，几个小时后我一定会被海滩上的交响音乐会吵醒。 突然我睡着了，我陷入了沉睡，在睡梦中，我们看到了童年的回归、过去岁月的重拾、失去的感情、灵魂的转世、灵魂的轮回、死者的唤起、幻象。疯狂，倒退到最基本的自然王国（因为我们说我们经常在梦中看到动物，但我们几乎总是忘记我们自己是一只动物，被剥夺了将确定性之光投射到事物上的推理能力；与生活的奇观相反，我们只呈现一种可疑的景象，每时每刻都被遗忘而重新摧毁，前一个现实在随后的现实之前消失，就像当我们改变幻灯片时，魔灯的一个投影在下一个投影之前消失），所有这些我们想象自己不知道的奥秘，实际上我们几乎每天晚上都在开始进入这些奥秘，就像我们进入另一个关于毁灭和复活的伟大奥秘一样。由于难以消化我的里维贝尔晚餐，我变得更加流浪，过去的阴暗区域的连续而闪烁的照明使我成为一个人，其最大的幸福就是遇见勒格朗丹，我刚刚在梦中与他交谈。

And then, even my own life was entirely hidden from me by a new setting, like the ‘drop’ lowered right at the front of the stage before which, while the scene snifters are busy behind, actors appear in a fresh ‘turn.’ The turn in which I was now cast for a part was in the manner of an Oriental fairy-tale; I retained no knowledge of my past or of myself, on account of the intense proximity of this interpolated scenery; I was merely a person who received the bastinado and underwent various punishments for a crime the nature of which I could not distinguish, though it was actually that of having taken too much port wine. Suddenly I awoke and discovered that, thanks to a long sleep, I had not heard a note of the concert. It was already afternoon; I verified this by my watch after several efforts to sit up in bed, efforts fruitless at first and interrupted by backward falls on to my pillow, but those short falls which are a sequel of sleep as of other forms of intoxication, whether due to wine or to convalescence; besides, before I had so much as looked at the time, I was certain that it was past midday. Last night I had been nothing more than an empty vessel, without weight, and (since I must first have gone to bed to be able to keep still, and have been asleep to be able to keep silent) had been unable to refrain from moving about and talking; I had no longer any stability, any centre of gravity, I was set in motion and it seemed that I might have continued on my dreary course until I reached the moon. But if, while I slept, my eyes had not seen the time, my body had nevertheless contrived to calculate it, had measured the hours; not on a dial superficially marked and figured, but by the steadily growing weight of all my replenished forces which, like, a powerful clockwork, it had allowed, notch by notch, to descend from my brain into the rest of my body in which there had risen now to above my knees the unbroken abundance of their store. If it is true that the sea was once upon a time our native element, into which we must plunge our cooling blood if we are to recover our strength, it is the same with the oblivion, the mental non-existence of sleep; we seem then to absent ourselves for a few hours from Time, but the forces which we have gathered in that interval without expending them, measure it by their quantity as accurately as the pendulum of the clock or the crumbling pyramid of the sandglass. Nor does one emerge more easily from such sleep than from a prolonged spell of wakefulness, so strongly does everything tend to persist; and if it is true that certain narcotics make us sleep, to have slept for any time is an even stronger narcotic, after which we have great difficulty in making ourselves wake up. Like a sailor who sees plainly the harbour in which he can moor his vessel, still tossed by the waves, I had a quite definite idea of looking at the time and of getting up, but my body was at every moment cast back upon the tide of sleep; the landing was difficult, and before I attained a position in which I could reach my watch and confront with its time that indicated by the wealth of accumulated material which my stiffened limbs had at their disposal, I fell back two or three times more upon my pillow.
然后，甚至我自己的生活也被一个新的布景完全隐藏起来，就像舞台正前方的“水滴”降下来，在舞台前面，当场景品尝者在后面忙碌时，演员们以新的“转弯”出现。我现在扮演的角色就像东方童话故事一样。由于这种插入的风景非常接近，我对我的过去或我自己一无所知。我只不过是一个受了棍棒的人，因某种我无法辨别其性质的罪行而受到各种惩罚，尽管实际上是喝了太多的波特酒。突然我醒来，发现由于睡得太久，我没有听到音乐会的任何声音。已经是下午了。经过几次努力从床上坐起来后，我通过手表证实了这一点，一开始的努力毫无结果，并因向后跌倒在我的枕头上而中断，但那些短暂的跌倒是睡眠和其他形式的中毒（无论是由于酒引起的）的后遗症或康复；而且，我还没看清楚时间，就确定已经过了中午了。昨晚我只不过是一个空的容器，没有重量，并且（因为我必须先上床才能保持静止，并且已经睡着才能保持沉默）无法克制住移动关于和谈论；我不再有任何稳定性，任何重心，我开始运动，似乎我可能会继续我沉闷的路线，直到到达月球。 但是，即使当我睡觉时，我的眼睛没有看到时间，我的身体仍然设法计算它，测量了时间；不是在表面上标记和数字的表盘上，而是通过我所有补充的力量的稳定增长的重量，这些力量就像一个强大的发条装置，它让我一点一点地从我的大脑下降到我身体的其他部分，其中有他们的储备量现在已经高到我的膝盖以上了。如果海洋确实曾经是我们的原生元素，如果我们要恢复体力，就必须将冷却的血液投入其中，那么遗忘和睡眠的精神不存在也是如此；我们似乎离开了时间几个小时，但是我们在这段时间里聚集起来的力量却没有消耗它们，通过它们的数量来测量它，就像钟摆或沙漏金字塔的摇摇欲坠一样精确。一个人从这样的睡眠中醒来并不比从长时间的清醒中醒来更容易，因为一切都倾向于持续存在。如果某些麻醉剂确实能让我们入睡，那么睡过一段时间后，麻醉剂的作用就更强烈，之后我们就很难让自己醒来。就像一个水手清楚地看到了停泊船只的港口，仍然被海浪翻腾着一样，我有一个非常明确的想法，要看看时间并起床，但我的身体每时每刻都被抛回到潮汐上睡眠；着陆是困难的，在我到达一个位置，在这个位置上我可以到达我的手表并面对我僵硬的四肢所积累的丰富材料所指示的时间之前，我又向后倒了两三次。枕头。

At length I could reach and read it: ‘Two o’clock in the afternoon!’ I rang; but at once I returned to a slumber which, this time, must have lasted infinitely longer, if I was to judge by the refreshment, the vision of an immense night overpassed, which I found on awakening. And yet as my awakening was caused by the entry of Françoise, and as her entry had been prompted by my ringing the bell, this second sleep which, it seemed to me, must have been longer than the other, and had brought me so much comfort and forgetfulness, could not have lasted for more than half a minute.
终于，我伸手读到了上面的内容：“下午两点！”我按响了电话。但我立刻又进入了睡眠状态，如果我从精神焕发来判断的话，这一次的睡眠时间一定会持续更长的时间，我醒来时发现，那是一个巨大的夜晚的景象。然而，由于弗朗索瓦丝的进来引起了​​我的觉醒，而且由于我按响了门铃，促使她进来，所以在我看来，这第二次睡眠一定比另一次要长，并且给我带来了很多东西。舒适和忘却，不可能持续超过半分钟。

My grandmother opened the door of my bedroom; I asked her various questions about the Legrandin family.
我的祖母打开了我卧室的门；我问了她关于勒格朗丹家族的各种问题。

It is not enough to say that I had returned to tranquillity and health, for it was more than a mere interval of space that had divided them from me yesterday, I had had all night long to struggle against a contrary tide, and now I not only found myself again in their presence, they had once more entered into me. At certain definite and still somewhat painful points beneath the surface of my empty head which would one day be broken, letting my ideas escape for all time, those ideas had once again taken their proper places and resumed that existence by which hitherto, alas, they had failed to profit.
仅仅说我已经恢复了平静和健康还不够，因为昨天将他们与我分开的不仅仅是一个空间的间隔，我整夜都在与相反的潮流作斗争，现在我不再我才发现自己再次出现在他们面前，他们再次进入了我的内心。在我空虚的头脑表面下的某些明确的、仍然有些痛苦的点上，有一天，这些点会被打破，让我的想法永远消失，那些想法再次占据了适当的位置，并恢复了迄今为止，唉，它们的存在。未能盈利。

Once again I had escaped from the impossibility of sleeping, from the deluge, the shipwreck of my nervous storms. I feared now not at all the menaces that had loomed over me the evening before, when I was dismantled of repose. A new life was opening before me; without making a single movement, for I was still shattered, although quite alert and well, I savoured my weariness with a light heart; it had isolated and broken asunder the bones of my legs and arms, which I could feel assembled before me, ready to cleave together, and which I was to raise to life merely by singing, like the builder in the fable.
我再次摆脱了无法入睡的困境，摆脱了神经风暴的洪流和沉船。现在，我不再害怕前一天晚上笼罩在我身上的威胁，当时我的安宁已被打破。新的生活正在我面前展开；我没有做任何动作，因为我仍然心碎，尽管我很清醒，身体很好，但我却以轻松的心情品味着我的疲倦。它把我的腿和手臂的骨头孤立和打碎了，我能感觉到它们在我面前组装起来，准备好劈在一起，而我只需通过歌唱就可以使它们复活，就像寓言中的建造者一样。

Suddenly I thought of the fair girl with the sad expression whom I had seen at Rivebelle, where she had looked at me for a moment. Many others, in the course of the evening, had seemed to me attractive; now she alone arose from the dark places of my memory. I had felt that she noticed me, had expected one of the waiters to come to me with a whispered message from her. Saint-Loup did not know her and fancied that she was respectable. It would be very difficult to see her, to see her constantly. But I was prepared to make any sacrifice, I thought now only of her. Philosophy distinguishes often between free and necessary acts. Perhaps there is none to the necessity of which we are more completely subjected than that which, by virtue of an ascending power held in check during the act itself, makes so unfailingly (once our mind is at rest) spring up a memory that was levelled with other memories by the distributed pressure of our indiffer-ance, and rush to the surface, because unknown to us it contained, more than any of the others, a charm of which we do not become aware until the following day. And perhaps there is not, either, any act so free, for it is still unprompted by habit, by that sort of mental hallucination which, when we are in love, facilitates the invariable reappearance of the image of one particular person.
突然，我想起了我在里维贝尔见过的那个脸上带着悲伤表情的金发女孩，她在那里看了我一会儿。整个晚上，还有许多其他人对我来说似乎很有吸引力。现在只有她一个人从我记忆的黑暗地方苏醒了。我感觉到她注意到了我，并期望其中一名服务员会带着她低声传达的信息来找我。圣卢不认识她，觉得她很受人尊敬。见到她，经常见到她是非常困难的。但我已经准备好做出任何牺牲，我现在只想着她。哲学常常区分自由行为和必要行为。也许没有什么比这种必然性更让我们屈服的了，凭借在行为本身中受到控制的上升力量，使我们如此可靠地（一旦我们的思想休息）涌现出被平整的记忆由于我们冷漠的分散压力，它与其他记忆一起涌入表面，因为我们不知道它包含的魅力比其他任何记忆都多，直到第二天我们才意识到它的魅力。也许也没有任何行为如此自由，因为它仍然不受习惯和那种心理幻觉的推动，当我们恋爱时，这种幻觉会促进某个特定人的形象不断地再现。

This was the day immediately following that on which I had seen file past me against a background of sea the beautiful procession of young girls. I put questions about them to a number of the visitors in the hotel, people who came almost every year to Balbec. They could tell me nothing. Later on, a photograph shewed me why. Who could ever recognise now in them, scarcely and yet quite definitely beyond an age in which one changes so utterly, that amorphous, delicious mass, still wholly infantine, of little girls who, only a few years back, might have been seen sitting in a ring on the sand round a tent; a sort of white and vague constellation in which one would have distinguished a pair of eyes that sparkled more than the rest, a mischievous face, flaxen hair, only to lose them again and to confound them almost at once in the indistinct and milky nebula.
就在那天，我看到一群美丽的年轻女孩在大海的背景下从我身边鱼贯而过。我向酒店的一些访客提出了有关它们的问题，这些人几乎每年都会来巴尔贝克。他们什么也不能告诉我。后来，一张照片告诉我原因。现在谁能在她们身上认出，在一个人发生了如此彻底的变化的时代之后，几乎但绝对可以肯定的是，那一团无定形的、美味的、仍然完全是婴儿般的小女孩，就在几年前，人们可能还看到她们坐在房间里。沙子上围绕帐篷的圆环；一种白色而模糊的星座，人们会在其中辨认出一双比其他人更闪闪发光的眼睛、一张顽皮的脸、亚麻色的头发，结果却又失去了它们，几乎立刻就在模糊的乳白色星云中将它们混淆了。

No doubt, in those earlier years that were still so recent, it was not, as it had been yesterday when they appeared for the first time before me, one’s impression of the group, but the group itself that had been lacking in clearness. Then those children, mere babies, had been still at that elementary stage in their formation when personality has not set its seal on every face. Like those primitive organisms in which the individual barely exists by itself, consists in the reef rather than in the coral insects that compose it, they were still pressed one against another. Sometimes one pushed her neighbour over, and then a wild laugh, which seemed the sole manifestation of their personal life, convulsed them all at once, obliterating, confounding those indefinite, grinning faces in the congealment of a single cluster, scintillating and tremulous. In an old photograph of themselves, which they were one day to give me, and which I have kept ever since, their infantile troop already presents the same number of participants as, later, their feminine procession; one can see from it that their presence must, even then, have made on the beach an unusual mark which forced itself on the attention; but one cannot recognise them individually in it save by a process of reasoning, leaving a clear field to all the transformations possible during girlhood, up to the point at which one reconstructed form would begin to encroach upon another individuality, which must be identified also, and whose handsome face, owing to the accessories of a large build and curly hair, may quite possibly have been, once, that wizened and impish little grin which the photograph album presents to us; and the distance traversed in a short interval of time by the physical characteristics of each of these girls making of them a criterion too vague to be of any use, whereas what they had in common and, so to speak, collectively, had at that early date been strongly marked, it sometimes happened that even their most intimate friends mistook one for another in this photograph, so much so that the question could in the last resort be settled only by some detail of costume which one of them could be certain that she herself, and not any of the others, had worn. Since those days, so different from the day on which I had just seen them strolling along the ‘front,’ so different and yet so close in time, they still gave way to fits of laughter, as I had observed that afternoon, but to laughter of a kind that was no longer the intermittent and almost automatic laughter of childhood, a spasmodic discharge which, in those days, had continually sent their heads dipping out of the circle, as the clusters of minnows in the Vivonne used to scatter and vanish only to gather again a moment later; each countenance was now mistress of itself, their eyes were fixed on the goal towards which they were marching; and it had taken, yesterday, the indecision and tremulousness of my first impression to make me confuse vaguely (as their childish hilarity and the old photograph had confused) the spores now individualised and disjoined of the pale madrepore.
毫无疑问，在不久前的那些年里，人们对这个团体的印象并不是像昨天他们第一次出现在我面前时那样，而是这个团体本身一直缺乏清晰性。那时，那些孩子，还只是婴儿，还处于形成的初级阶段，个性还没有印在每个人的脸上。就像那些个体几乎独立存在的原始生物体一样，它们存在于珊瑚礁中，而不是组成珊瑚礁的珊瑚昆虫中，它们仍然相互挤压。有时有人把她的邻居推倒，然后一声狂野的笑声，这似乎是他们个人生活的唯一表现，立刻让他们所有人都抽搐起来，抹杀了那些不确定的、咧着嘴笑的脸，凝结成一簇，闪烁着颤抖。 他们有一天要给我一张他们的旧照片，从那以后我一直保留着这张照片，他们的婴儿队伍已经呈现出与后来的女性游行队伍相同数量的参与者；由此可见，即使在当时，他们的存在也必定在海滩上留下了一个不寻常的印记，迫使人们注意；但人们无法在其中单独识别它们，除非通过推理过程，为少女时期可能发生的所有转变留下一个清晰的领域，直到一种重建的形式开始侵犯另一种个性，而另一种个性也必须被识别，由于身材魁梧，头发卷曲，他英俊的脸庞很可能曾经是相册中呈现给我们的那种干瘪而顽皮的笑容。这些女孩的身体特征在很短的时间内所经过的距离使她们成为一个过于模糊而没有任何用处的标准，而她们的共同点，可以说，集体，在那么早的时候就具有了共同点。日期被强烈标记，有时甚至他们最亲密的朋友也会在这张照片中误认另一位，以至于最后只能通过服装的一些细节来解决这个问题，其中一个人可以确定她是她自己，而不是其他任何人，都已经磨损了。 自从那些日子以来，与我刚刚看到他们沿着“前线”漫步的那一天是如此不同，如此不同，但时间却如此接近，他们仍然被阵阵笑声所取代，正如我那天下午所观察到的那样，但是那种笑声不再是童年时断断续续、几乎自动的笑声，而是一种痉挛性的笑声，在那些日子里，这种笑声不断地让他们的头探出圈子，就像维冯讷河里的米诺鱼群过去散开和消失一样。片刻之后才再次聚集；现在，每张脸都成了自己的主人，他们的眼睛都盯着他们前进的目标。昨天，我的第一印象中的优柔寡断和颤抖让我模糊地混淆了（就像他们幼稚的欢闹和旧照片所混淆的那样）现在的孢子现在已经个体化并且与苍白的疯子脱节了。

Repeatedly, I dare say, when pretty girls went by, I had promised myself that I would see them again. As a rule, people do not appear a second time; moreover our memory, which speedily forgets their existence, would find it difficult to recall their appearance; our eyes would not recognise them, perhaps, and in the meantime we have seen new girls go by, whom we shall not see again either. But at other times, and this was what was to happen with the pert little band at Balbec, chance brings them back insistently before our eyes. Chance seems to us then a good and useful thing, for we discern in it as it were rudiments of organisation, of an attempt to arrange our life; and it makes easy to us, inevitable, and sometimes—after interruptions that have made us hope that we may cease to remember—cruel, the retention in our minds of images to the possession of which we shall come in time to believe that we were predestined, and which but for chance we should from the very first have managed to forget, like so many others, with so little difficulty.
我敢说，当漂亮女孩经过时，我曾多次向自己保证，我会再次见到她们。一般来说，人们不会出现第二次；而且我们的记忆很快就会忘记它们的存在，很难回忆起它们的外表。也许我们的眼睛认不出她们，与此同时，我们看到新的女孩经过，我们也不会再见到她们。但在其他时候，这就是巴尔贝克这支活泼的小乐队所发生的事情，机会让他们不断地回到我们眼前。那么，机会对我们来说似乎是一件好事和有用的事情，因为我们在其中看到了组织的雏形，以及安排我们生活的尝试。这对我们来说很容易，不可避免，有时，在中断使我们希望我们不再记得之后，残酷的是，我们脑海中保留着一些图像，我们将及时相信我们已经拥有了这些图像。命中注定的，如果不是偶然，我们从一开始就应该像许多其他人一样，毫不费力地忘记它。

Presently Saint-Loup’s visit drew to an end. I had not seen that party of girls again on the beach. He was too little at Balbec in the afternoons to have time to bother about them, or to attempt, in my interest, to make their acquaintance. In the evenings he was more free, and continued to take me constantly to Rivebelle. There are, in those restaurants, as there are in public gardens and railway trains, people embodied in a quite ordinary appearance, whose name astonishes us when, having happened to ask it, we discover that this is not the mere inoffensive stranger whom we supposed but nothing less than the Minister or Duke of whom we have so often heard. Two or three times already, in the Rivebelle restaurant, we had—Saint-Loup and I—seen come in and sit down at a table when everyone else was getting ready to go, a man of large stature, very muscular, with regular features and a grizzled beard, gazing, with concentrated attention, into the empty air. One evening, on our asking the landlord who was this obscure, solitary and belated diner, ‘What!’ he exclaimed, ‘do you mean to say you don’t know the famous painter Elstir?’ Swann had once mentioned his name to me, I had entirely forgotten in what connexion; but the omission of a particular memory, like that of part of a sentence when we are reading, leads sometimes not to uncertainty but to a birth of certainty that is premature. ‘He is a friend of Swann, a very well known artist, extremely good,’ I told Saint-Loup. Whereupon there passed over us both, like a wave of emotion, the thought that Elstir was a great artist, a celebrated man, and that, confounding us with the rest of the diners, he had no suspicion of the ecstasy into which we were thrown by the idea of his talent. Doubtless, his unconsciousness of our admiration and of our acquaintance with Swann would not have troubled us had we not been at the seaside. But since we were still at an age when enthusiasm cannot keep silence, and had been transported into a life in which not to be known is unendurable, we wrote a letter, signed with both our names, in which we revealed to Elstir in the two diners seated within a few feet of him two passionate admirers of his talent, two friends of his great friend Swann, and asked to be allowed to pay our homage to him in person. A waiter undertook to convey this missive to the celebrity.
至此，圣卢的访问结束了。我在海滩上再也没有见过那群女孩。下午他在巴尔贝克的时间太少，没有时间去关心他们，或者为了我的利益而尝试去结识他们。晚上他比较自由，继续经常带我去里维贝尔。在那些餐馆里，就像在公园里和火车上一样，人们的外表都很普通，当我们碰巧问起他们的名字时，我们发现这不仅仅是我们想象中的无害的陌生人，他们的名字让我们感到惊讶。但不亚于我们经常听说的大臣或公爵。已经有两三次了，在里维贝尔餐厅，我们——圣卢和我——看到当其他人都准备离开时，我们进来坐在一张桌子旁，一个身材高大、肌肉发达、五官端正的男人胡子花白，全神贯注地凝视着空旷的空气。一天晚上，当我们问房东这位默默无闻、孤独而迟来的食客是谁时，他惊呼道：“什么！你的意思是说你不认识著名画家埃尔斯蒂尔吗？”斯旺曾经向我提到过他的名字。 ，我完全忘记了是什么关系；但是，特定记忆的遗漏，就像我们阅读时遗漏句子的一部分一样，有时不会导致不确定性，而是导致过早产生确定性。 “他是斯旺的朋友，斯旺是一位非常知名的艺术家，非常优秀，”我告诉圣卢。于是，我们俩心头涌起一股情感的浪潮，想到埃尔斯蒂尔是一位伟大的艺术家，一位著名的人物，他对我们陷入的狂喜毫不怀疑，这让我们与其他食客混为一谈。凭借他的才华。 毫无疑问，如果我们不是在海边，他没有意识到我们对斯万的钦佩和相识，就不会困扰我们。但由于我们还处于热情无法保持沉默的年龄，并且已经进入了一种不为人所知的生活难以忍受的境地，所以我们写了一封信，署名我们的名字，我们在信中向埃尔斯蒂尔透露了两件事：坐在离他几英尺远的食客们中，有两位对他的才华充满热情的崇拜者，他们是他的好朋友斯旺的两个朋友，他们请求允许我们亲自向他致敬。一名服务员将这封信转达给这位名人。

A celebrity Elstir was, perhaps, not yet at this period quite to the extent claimed by the landlord, though he was to reach the height of his fame within a very few years. But he had been one of the first to frequent this restaurant when it was still only a sort of farmhouse, and had brought to it a whole colony of artists (who had all, as it happened, migrated elsewhere as soon as the farm-yard in which they used to feed in the open air, under a lean-to roof, had become a fashionable centre); Elstir himself had returned to Rivebelle this evening only on account of a temporary absence of his wife, from the house which he had taken in the neighbourhood. But great talent, even when its existence is not yet recognised, will inevitably provoke certain phenomena of admiration, such as the landlord had managed to detect in the questions asked by more than one English lady visitor, athirst for information as to the life led by Elstir, or in the number of letters that he received from abroad. Then the landlord had further remarked that Elstir did not like to be disturbed when he was working, that he would rise in the middle of the night and take a little model down to the water’s edge to pose for him, nude, if the moon was shining; and had told himself that so much labour was not in vain, nor the admiration of the tourists unjustified when he had, in one of Elstir’s pictures, recognised a wooden cross which stood by the roadside as you came into Rivebelle.
埃尔斯蒂尔在这个时期也许还没有达到房东所声称的程度，尽管他在几年之内就达到了名气的顶峰。但他是第一批光顾这家餐厅的人之一，当时它还只是一种农舍，并带来了一大群艺术家（碰巧，一旦农舍建成，他们就都搬到了其他地方）。它们曾经在露天、单坡屋顶下觅食，现在已成为一个时尚的中心）；埃尔斯蒂尔本人今天晚上回到了里维贝尔，只是因为他的妻子暂时不在他在附近的房子里。但是，伟大的才华，即使其存在尚未得到承认，也不可避免地会引起某些钦佩现象，就像房东在不止一位渴望了解有关他的生活的英国女访客所提出的问题中发现的那样。埃尔斯蒂尔，或者说他从国外收到的信件数量。然后房东进一步说，埃尔斯蒂尔工作时不喜欢被打扰，他会在半夜起床，带着一个小模特到水边，如果月亮是裸体的，给他摆姿势。闪亮的;当他在埃尔斯蒂尔的一张照片中认出进入里维贝尔时路边立着一个木制十字架时，他告诉自己，这么多的劳动并没有白费，游客的钦佩也不是没有道理的。

‘It’s all right!’ he would repeat with stupefaction, ‘there are all the four beams! Oh, he does take a lot of trouble!’
“没关系！”他惊讶地重复道，“四根梁都在了！”哦，他确实很麻烦！

And he did not know whether a little Sunrise Over the Sea which Elstir had given him might not be worth a fortune.
他不知道埃尔斯蒂尔给他的一点海上日出是否值一大笔钱。

We watched him read our letter, put it in his pocket, finish his dinner, begin to ask for his things, get up to go; and we were so convinced that we had shocked him by our overture that we would now have hoped (as keenly as at first we had dreaded) to make our escape without his noticing us. We did not bear in mind for a single instant a consideration which should, nevertheless, have seemed to us most important, namely that our enthusiasm for Elstir, on the sincerity of which we should not have allowed the least doubt to be cast, which we could indeed have supported with the evidence of our breathing arrested by expectancy, our desire to do no matter what that was difficult or heroic for the great man, was not, as we imagined it to be, admiration, since neither of us had ever seen anything that he had painted; our feeling might have as its object the hollow idea of a ‘great artist,’ but not a body of work which was unknown to us. It was, at the most, admiration in the abstract, the nervous envelope, the sentimental structure of an admiration without content, that is to say a thing as indissolubly attached to boyhood as are certain organs which have ceased to exist in the adult man; we were still boys. Elstir meanwhile was reaching the door when suddenly he turned and came towards us. I was transported by a delicious thrill of terror such as I could not have felt a few years later, because, while age diminishes our capacity, familiarity with the world has meanwhile destroyed in us any inclination to provoke such strange encounters, to feel that kind of emotion.
我们看着他读完我们的信，把它放进口袋，吃完晚饭，开始索取他的东西，然后起身离开；我们确信我们的提议让他震惊了，所以我们现在希望（就像我们一开始所担心的那样）在他不注意到我们的情况下逃跑。我们一瞬间都没有想到一个对我们来说应该是最重要的考虑，即我们对埃尔斯蒂尔的热情，我们不应该允许对这种真诚产生丝毫怀疑，我们对埃尔斯蒂尔的热情是我们对埃尔斯蒂尔的热情。我们确实可以用我们因期待而屏住呼吸的证据来证明，无论对这位伟人来说是困难的还是英雄的事，我们想要做的事情并不像我们想象的那样是钦佩，因为我们都没有见过他画过的任何东西；我们的感觉可能以“伟大艺术家”的空洞想法为对象，但不是我们不知道的作品。它至多是抽象的钦佩，是一种没有内容的钦佩的神经包络和情感结构，也就是说，它与童年时期有着不可分割的联系，就像成年男子身上已经不复存在的某些器官一样。我们还是男孩。与此同时，埃尔斯蒂尔正要走到门口，突然他转身朝我们走来。我被一种令人愉悦的恐惧所震撼，几年后我再也无法感受到这种感觉，因为，虽然年龄削弱了我们的能力，但对世界的熟悉同时摧毁了我们任何引发这种奇怪遭遇的倾向，感受到那种亲切的感觉。的情感。

In the course of the few words that Elstir had come back to say to us, sitting down at our table, he never gave any answer on the several occasions on which I spoke to him of Swann. I began to think that he did not know him. He asked me, nevertheless, to come and see him at his Balbec studio, an invitation which he did not extend to Saint-Loup, and which I had earned (as I might not, perhaps, from Swann’s recommendation, had Elstir been intimate with him, for the part played by disinterested motives is greater than we are inclined to think in people’s lives) by a few words which made him think that I was devoted to the arts. He lavished on me a friendliness which was as far above that of Saint-Loup as that was above the affability of a mere tradesman. Compared with that of a great artist, the friendliness of a great gentleman, charming as it may be, has the effect of an actor’s playing a part, of being feigned. Saint-Loup sought to please; Elstir loved to give, to give himself. Everything that he possessed, ideas, work, and the rest which he counted for far less, he would have given gladly to anyone who could understand him. But, failing society that was endurable, he lived in an isolation, with a savagery which fashionable people called pose and ill-breeding, public authorities a recalcitrant spirit, his neighbours madness, his family selfishness and pride.
埃尔斯蒂尔坐在我们桌旁，回来对我们说了几句话，在我几次向他谈到斯万时，他都没有给出任何答案。我开始认为他不认识他。尽管如此，他还是邀请我去他的巴尔贝克工作室看望他，但他并没有向圣卢发出邀请，而这是我应得的（如果埃尔斯蒂尔与他关系亲密的话，我也许不会从斯万的推荐中得到邀请）因为无私的动机在人们的生活中所起的作用比我们想象的要大），几句话让他认为我致力于艺术。他对我的友善程度远超圣卢，也远超一个商人的和蔼可亲。与大艺术家相比，大绅士的友善虽然迷人，却有演员的装腔作势的效果。圣卢试图取悦他人。埃尔斯蒂尔热爱奉献，热爱奉献自己。他所拥有的一切，想法，工作，以及其他他认为要少得多的东西，他都会很乐意送给任何能够理解他的人。但是，由于社会无法忍受，他过着与世隔绝的生活，过着被时尚人士称为装腔作势和没有教养的野蛮生活，公共当局顽固不化，他的邻居疯狂，他的家庭自私和骄傲。

And no doubt at first he had thought, even in his solitude, with enjoyment that, thanks to his work, he was addressing, in spite of distance, he was giving a loftier idea of himself, to those who had misunderstood or hurt him. Perhaps, in those days, he lived alone not from indifference but from love of his fellows, and, just as I had renounced Gilberte to appear to her again one day in more attractive colours, dedicated his work to certain people as a way of approaching them again, by which without actually seeing him they would be made to love him, admire him, talk about him; a renunciation is not always complete from the start, when we decide upon it in our original frame of mind and before it has reacted upon us, whether it be the renunciation of an invalid, a monk, an artist or a hero. But if he had wished to produce with certain people in his mind, in producing he had lived for himself, remote from the society to which he had become indifferent; the practice of solitude had given him a love for it, as happens with every big thing which we have begun by fearing, because we knew it to be incompatible with smaller things to which we clung, and of which it does not so much deprive us as it detaches us from them. Before we experience it, our whole preoccupation is to know to what extent we can reconcile it with certain pleasures which cease to be pleasures as soon as we have experienced it.
毫无疑问，即使在孤独中，他一开始也很高兴地认为，由于他的工作，尽管距离遥远，他还是在向那些误解或伤害他的人传达了一种更崇高的自我观念。也许，在那些日子里，他独自生活不是因为冷漠，而是因为对同伴的爱，而且，就像我放弃了希尔贝特，有一天以更有吸引力的色彩再次出现在她面前一样，把他的作品奉献给某些人，作为一种接近的方式再次让他们在没有真正见到他的情况下，就会爱上他、钦佩他、谈论他；当我们以最初的心态决定放弃并在它对我们产生反应之前，放弃并不总是从一开始就完成的，无论是对病人、僧侣、艺术家还是英雄的放弃。但如果他希望与心中的某些人一起创作，那么在创作中他就是为自己而活，远离了他已经变得漠不关心的社会；孤独的实践让他爱上了它，就像我们一开始就害怕的每一件大事一样，因为我们知道它与我们所依附的小事是不相容的，而且它并没有剥夺我们太多的小事因为它使我们与他们分离。在我们体验它之前，我们全神贯注于知道我们能在多大程度上将它与某些快乐调和起来，而一旦我们体验到它，这些快乐就不再是快乐了。

Elstir did not stay long talking to us. I made up my mind that I would go to his studio during the next few days, but on the following afternoon, when I had accompanied my grandmother right to the point at which the ‘front’ ended, near the cliffs of Canapville, on our way back, at the foot of one of the little streets which ran down at right angles to the beach, we came upon a girl who, with lowered head like an animal that is being driven reluctant to its stall, and carrying golf-clubs, was walking in front of a person in authority, in all probability her or her friends’ ‘Miss,’ who suggested a portrait of Jeffreys by Hogarth, with a face as red as if her favourite beverage were gin rather than tea, on which a dried smear of tobacco at the corner of her mouth prolonged the curve of a moustache that was grizzled but abundant. The girl who preceded her was like that one of the little band who, beneath a black polo-cap, had shewn in an inexpressive chubby face a pair of laughing eyes. Now, the girl who was now passing me had also a black polo-cap, but she struck me as being even prettier than the other, the line of her nose was straighter, the curve of nostril at its base fuller and more fleshy. Besides, the other had seemed a proud, pale girl, this one a child well-disciplined and of rosy complexion. And yet, as she was pushing a bicycle just like the other’s, and was wearing the same reindeer gloves, I concluded that the differences arose perhaps from the angle and circumstances in which I now saw her, for it was hardly likely that there could be at Balbec a second girl, with a face that, when all was said, was so similar and with the same details in her accoutrements. She cast a rapid glance in my direction; for the next few days, when I saw the little band again on the beach, and indeed long afterwards when I knew all the girls who composed it, I could never be absolutely certain that any of them—even she who among them all was most like her, the girl with the bicycle—was indeed the one that I had seen that evening at the end of the ‘front,’ where a street ran down to the beach, a girl who differed hardly at all, but was still just perceptibly different from her whom I had noticed in the procession.
埃尔斯蒂尔并没有长时间与我们交谈。我决定在接下来的几天里去他的工作室，但第二天下午，当我陪着祖母一直到“前线”结束的地方，靠近卡纳普维尔的悬崖时，我们的回来的路上，在一条与海滩成直角的小街脚下，我们遇到了一个女孩，她低着头，像一只不情愿地被赶到马厩的动物，手里拿着高尔夫球杆，走在一位权威人士面前，很可能是她或她朋友的“小姐”，她建议画一幅霍加斯的杰弗里斯肖像，脸红得像她最喜欢的饮料是杜松子酒而不是茶，上面有一张她嘴角沾着干烟，拉长了灰白但浓密的胡须的曲线。走在她前面的女孩就像小乐队中的一个，戴着黑色马球帽，一张毫无表情的胖脸上露出一双笑意十足的眼睛。现在，从我身边经过的那个女孩也戴着一顶黑色马球帽，但她给我的感觉比另一个更漂亮，她的鼻子线条更直，鼻孔根部的曲线更饱满、更有肉。而且，另一个看起来是个骄傲、苍白的女孩，这个是个遵守纪律、肤色红润的孩子。然而，当她和另一个人一样推着自行车，戴着同样的驯鹿手套时，我得出结论，这些差异可能是我现在看到她的角度和环境造成的，因为几乎不可能有在巴尔贝克，还有第二个女孩，总而言之，她的脸是如此相似，她的装备也有同样的细节。 她快速地朝我的方向看了一眼。接下来的几天，当我在海滩上再次看到这支小乐队时，事实上，很久以后，当我认识了组成这支乐队的所有女孩时，我永远无法绝对确定她们中的任何一个——即使是她们中最优秀的她就像她一样，那个骑自行车的女孩——确实是那天晚上我在“前线”尽头看到的那个女孩，那里有一条街道延伸到海滩，一个几乎没有什么不同的女孩，但仍然只是明显的与我在游行队伍中注意到的她不同。

>From that moment, whereas for the last few days my mind had been occupied chiefly by the tall one, it was the one with the golf-clubs, presumed to be Mlle. Simonet, who began once more to absorb my attention. When walking with the others she would often stop, forcing her friends, who seemed greatly to respect her, to stop also. Thus it is, calling a halt, her eyes sparkling beneath her polo-cap, that I see her again to-day, outlined against the screen which the sea spreads out behind her, and separated from me by a transparent, azure space, the interval of time that has elapsed since then, a first impression, faint and fine in my memory, desired, pursued, then forgotten, then found again, of a face which I have many times since projected upon the cloud of the past to be able to say to myself, of a girl who was actually in my room: ‘It is she!’ But it was perhaps yet another, the one with geranium cheeks and green eyes, whom I should have liked most to know. And yet, whichever of them it might be, on any given day, that I preferred to see, the others, without her, were sufficient to excite my desire which, concentrated now chiefly on one, now on another, continued—as, on the first day, my confused vision—to combine and blend them, to make of them the little world apart, animated by a life in common, which for that matter they doubtless imagined themselves to form; and I should have penetrated, in becoming a friend of one of them—like a cultivated pagan or a meticulous Christian going among barbarians—into a rejuvenating society in which reigned health, unconsciousness of others, sensual pleasures, cruelty, unintellectuality and joy.
从那一刻起，虽然过去几天我的心思主要被那个高个子占据，但它却是那个拿着高尔夫球杆的人，据推测是Mlle。西蒙内特再次开始吸引我的注意力。当和其他人一起散步时，她经常停下来，迫使那些看起来非常尊重她的朋友们也停下来。就这样，我停下来，她的眼睛在马球帽下闪闪发光，今天我又看到了她，她的轮廓映衬在大海在她身后展开的屏幕上，与我之间隔着一个透明、蔚蓝的空间，从那时起已经过去了一段时间，第一印象，在我的记忆中微弱而美好，渴望，追求，然后忘记，然后再次发现，我已经多次将这张脸投射在过去的云彩上，以便能够我对自己说，一个实际上在我房间里的女孩：“是她！”但也许是另一个人，那个有着天竺葵脸颊和绿色眼睛的人，我最想认识的人。然而，无论在哪一天，我更愿意看到其他人，没有她，都足以激发我的欲望，这种欲望时而主要集中在一个，时而集中在另一个上，继续——就像，第一天，我的愿景是混乱的——将他们结合起来，融合在一起，使他们成为一个彼此不同的小世界，被共同的生活所激励，就这一点而言，他们无疑是想象自己形成的；我本应该在成为他们中的一个人的朋友之后——就像一个有教养的异教徒或一个一丝不苟的基督徒走进野蛮人一样——进入一个充满活力的社会，在这个社会里，健康、对他人的无意识、感官享受、残酷、愚昧和欢乐占主导地位。

My grandmother, who had been told of my meeting with Elstir, and rejoiced at the thought of all the intellectual profit that I might derive from his friendship, considered it absurd and none too polite of me not to have gone yet to pay him a visit. But I could think only of the little band, and being uncertain of the hour at which the girls would be passing along the front, I dared not absent myself. My grandmother was astonished, too, at the smartness of my attire, for I had suddenly remembered suits which had been lying all this time at the bottom of my trunk. I put on a different one every day, and had even written to Paris ordering new hats and neckties.
我的祖母听说了我与埃尔斯蒂尔的会面，并为我可能从他的友谊中获得的所有智力收益而感到高兴，她认为我不去拜访他是荒谬的，而且太不礼貌了。但我只想着那支小乐队，而且不确定女孩们什么时候会经过前面，所以我不敢缺席。我的祖母也对我的漂亮着装感到惊讶，因为我突然想起一直放在我行李箱底部的西装。我每天都戴不同的，甚至写信给巴黎订购新的帽子和领带。

It adds a great charm to life in a watering-place like Balbec if the face of a pretty girl, a vendor of shells, cakes or flowers, painted in vivid colours in our mind, is regularly, from early morning, the purpose of each of those leisured, luminous days which we spend upon the beach. They become then, and for that reason, albeit unoccupied by any business, as alert as working-days, pointed, magnetised, raised slightly to meet an approaching moment, that in which, while we purchase sand-cakes, roses, ammonites, we will delight in seeing upon a feminine face its colours displayed as purely as on a flower. But at least, with these little traffickers, first of all we can speak to them, which saves us from having to construct with our imagination their aspects other than those with which the mere visual perception of them furnishes us, and to recreate their life, magnifying its charm, as when we stand before a portrait; moreover, just because we speak to them, we can learn where and at what time it will be possible to see them again. Now I had none of these advantages with respect to the little band. Their habits were unknown to me; when on certain days I failed to catch a glimpse of them, not knowing the cause of their absence I sought to discover whether it was something fixed and regular, if they were to be seen only every other day, or in certain states of the weather, or if there were days on which no one ever saw them. I imagined myself already friends with them, and saying: ‘But you weren’t there the other day?’ ‘Weren’t we? Oh, no, of course not; that was because it was a Saturday. On Saturdays we don’t ever come, because...’ If it were only as simple as that, to know that on black Saturday it was useless to torment oneself, that one might range the beach from end to end, sit down outside the pastry-cook’s and pretend to be nibbling an éclair, poke into the curiosity shop, wait for bathing time, the concert, high tide, sunset, night, all without seeing the longed-for little band. But the fatal day did not, perhaps, come once a week. It did not, perhaps, of necessity fall on Saturdays. Perhaps certain atmospheric conditions influenced it or were entirely unconnected with it. How many observations, patient but not at all serene, must one accumulate of the movements, to all appearance irregular, of those unknown worlds before being able to be sure that one has not allowed oneself to be led astray by mere coincidence, that one’s forecasts will not be proved wrong, before one elucidates the certain laws, acquired at the cost of so much painful experience, of that passionate astronomy. Remembering that I had not yet seen them on some particular day of the week, I assured myself that they would not be coming, that it was useless to wait any longer on the beach. And at that very moment I caught sight of them. And yet on another day which, so far as I could suppose that there were laws that guided the return of those constellations, must, I had calculated, prove an auspicious day, they did not come. But to this primary uncertainty whether I should see them or not that day, there was added another, more disquieting: whether I should ever set eyes on them again, for I had no reason, after all, to know that they were not about to sail for America, or to return to Paris. This was enough to make me begin to love them. One can feel an attraction towards a particular person. But to release that fount of sorrow, that sense of the irreparable, those agonies which prepare the way for love, there must be—and this is, perhaps, more than any person can be, the actual object which our passion seeks so anxiously to embrace—the risk of an impossibility. Thus there were acting upon me already those influences which recur in the course of our successive love-affairs, which can, for that matter, be provoked (but then rather in the life of cities) by the thought of little working girls whose half-holiday is we know not on what day, and whom we are afraid of having missed as they came out of the factory; or which at least have recurred in mine. Perhaps they are inseparable from love; perhaps everything that formed a distinctive feature of our first love attaches itself to those that come after, by recollection, suggestion, habit, and through the successive periods of our life gives to its different aspects a general character.
如果一个漂亮女孩的脸，一个卖贝壳、蛋糕或鲜花的小贩，在我们的脑海中被涂上鲜艳的色彩，从清晨开始，每个人的目的就经常出现，那么，巴尔贝克这样的水源地的生活就增添了巨大的魅力。我们在海滩上度过的那些悠闲、明亮的日子。因此，尽管没有任何事务，它们却像工作日一样警觉，尖尖的，磁化的，稍微抬起来迎接即将到来的时刻，在这个时刻，当我们购买沙饼、玫瑰、菊石时，我们会很高兴看到女性脸上的颜色像花朵一样纯粹。但至少，对于这些小贩运者，我们首先可以与他们交谈，这使我们不必用我们的想象力来构建他们的其他方面，而不仅仅是他们的视觉感知为我们提供的方面，并重新创造他们的生活，放大它的魅力，就像我们站在肖像前一样；此外，仅仅因为我们与他们交谈，我们就可以了解何时何地可以再次见到他们。现在，对于小乐队来说，我没有这些优势。我不知道他们的习惯。当在某些日子里我没能看到它们时，我不知道它们消失的原因，我试图找出它们是否是固定的和有规律的，如果它们只是每隔一天看到一次，或者在某些天气状态下看到它们，或者是否有几天没有人见过他们。我想象自己已经是他们的朋友了，然后说：“但是那天你不在场吗？”“我们不是吗？哦，不，当然不是；那是因为那是星期六。星期六我们从不来，因为……’要是事情就这么简单就好了，要知道在黑色的星期六，折磨自己是没有用的，一个人可以把海滩从一端走到另一端，坐在糕点师外面，假装在啃一份闪电泡芙，戳戳走进古玩店，等待洗澡时间，音乐会，涨潮，日落，夜晚，都没有看到渴望已久的小乐队。但致命的一天也许不是每周都会发生一次。也许它并不一定落在星期六。也许某些大气条件影响了它，或者与它完全无关。一个人必须对那些未知世界的一切看似不规则的运动进行多少次观察，耐心但一点也不平静，才能确定自己没有因为巧合而误入歧途，也没有因为自己的预测而误入歧途。在人们阐明以如此多的痛苦经验为代价获得的、充满热情的天文学的某些定律之前，不会被证明是错误的。想起一周中的某个特定日子我还没有见到他们，我向自己保证他们不会来，在海滩上再等是没有用的。就在那一刻我看到了他们。然而，在另一天，据我推测，有指导这些星座回归的法则，我计算过，这一定是一个吉祥的日子，但它们并没有到来。但除了那天我是否应该看到他们这个主要的不确定性之外，还有另一个更令人不安的不确定性：我是否应该再次看到他们，因为毕竟我没有理由知道他们不会航行前往美国，或返回巴黎。这足以让我开始爱他们。一个人可以感觉到对某个特定的人的吸引力。 但是，为了释放那股悲伤的源泉，那种无法挽回的感觉，那些为爱铺平道路的痛苦，必须有——这也许是任何人都无法做到的，我们的激情如此急切地寻求的实际对象。拥抱——不可能的风险。因此，那些在我们连续的恋爱过程中反复出现的影响已经作用在我身上，就这一点而言，这种影响可能会被（但更确切地说是在城市生活中）被那些小职业女孩的想法所激怒，她们的一半——假期是我们不知道在哪一天，也不知道他们从工厂出来时我们担心错过了谁；或者至少在我身上重复出现过。或许他们都离不开爱情；或许，构成我们初恋独特特征的一切，都会通过回忆、暗示、习惯，与后来的爱情联系在一起，并通过我们生命的连续时期，赋予它不同的方面一个共同特征。

I seized every pretext for going down to the beach at the hours when I hoped to succeed in finding them there. Having caught sight of them once while we were at luncheon, I now invariably came in late for it, waiting interminably upon the ‘front’ for them to pass; devoting all the short time that I did spend in the dining-room to interrogating with my eyes its azure wall of glass; rising long before the dessert, so as not to miss them should they have gone out at a different hour, and chafing with irritation at my grandmother, when, with unwitting malevolence, she made me stay with her past the hour that seemed to me propitious. I tried to prolong the horizon by setting my chair aslant; if, by chance, I did catch sight of no matter which of the girls, since they all partook of the same special essence, it was as if I had seen projected before my face in a shifting, diabolical hallucination, a little of the unfriendly and yet passionately coveted dream which, but a moment ago, had existed only—where it lay stagnant for all time—in my brain.
当我希望能在那里找到他们时，我就抓住一切借口去海滩。当我们吃午饭的时候，我曾见过他们一次，现在我总是迟到，没完没了地在“前面”等待他们过去。我在餐厅度过的所有短暂时间都用眼睛审视着蔚蓝的玻璃墙；早在吃甜点之前就起床了，以免他们在不同的时间出去时错过他们，并对我的祖母感到恼火，当时她无意中恶意地让我和她呆在一起，过了我认为有利的时间。 。我把椅子倾斜，试图拉长地平线。如果我偶然看到了无论是哪一个女孩，因为她们都具有同样的特殊本质，我就好像看到了一种变化莫测的、恶魔般的幻觉投射在我的面前，有一点不友好的感觉。然而，就在不久前，这个梦想还只存在于我的大脑中，而且永远停滞不前。

I was in love with none of them, loving them all, and yet the possibility of meeting them was in my daily life the sole element of delight, alone made to burgeon in me those high hopes by which every obstacle is surmounted, hopes ending often in fury if I had not seen them. For the moment, these girls eclipsed my grandmother in my affection; the longest journey would at once have seemed attractive to me had it been to a place in which they might be found. It was to them that my thoughts comfortably clung when I supposed myself to be thinking of something else or of nothing. But when, even without knowing it, I thought of them, they, more unconsciously still, were for me the mountainous blue undulations of the sea, a troop seen passing in outline against the waves. Our most intensive love for a person is always the love, really, of something else as well.
我不爱他们中的任何一个，但爱他们所有人，然而，在我的日常生活中，能够见到他们是唯一的快乐元素，只有这一点才能在我心中萌发那些很高的希望，通过这些希望，一切障碍都可以克服，但希望常常以失败告终。如果我没有看到他们，我会感到愤怒。此刻，我对这些女孩的喜爱程度超过了我的祖母。如果最长的旅程是到一个可以找到它们的地方，那么它立刻就会对我产生吸引力。当我以为自己在想别的事情或什么都没有的时候，我的思绪就会舒适地依附在他们身上。但当我在不知不觉中想到它们时，对我来说，它们更无意识地是大海的蓝色起伏的山峦，是一群在海浪中行走的轮廓。我们对一个人最强烈的爱实际上也是对其他事物的爱。

Meanwhile my grandmother was shewing, because now I was keenly interested in golf and lawn-tennis and was letting slip an opportunity of seeing at work and hearing talk an artist whom she knew to be one of the greatest of his time, a disapproval which seemed to me to be based on somewhat narrow views. I had guessed long ago in the Champs-Elysées, and had since established to my own satisfaction, that when we are in love with a woman we simply project into her a state of our own soul, that the important thing is, therefore, not the worth of the woman but the depth of the state; and that the emotions which a young girl of no kind of distinction arouses in us can enable us to bring to the surface of our consciousness some of the most intimate parts of our being, more personal, more remote, more essential than would be reached by the pleasure that we derive from the conversation of a great man or even from the admiring contemplation of his work.
与此同时，我的祖母正在表现，因为现在我对高尔夫和草地网球非常感兴趣，并且错过了在工作中看到一位艺术家并听到他的谈话的机会，她知道这位艺术家是他那个时代最伟大的艺术家之一，这似乎是一种不赞成对我来说是基于有些狭隘的观点。很久以前，我在香榭丽舍大街就猜到了，并且自此我自己满意地确定了，当我们爱上一个女人时，我们只是将我们自己灵魂的状态投射到她身上，因此，重要的是，不女人的价值不在于国家的深度；一个没有任何区别的年轻女孩在我们身上激起的情感可以使我们将我们生命中一些最亲密的部分带到我们的意识表面，比普通女孩所能达到的更个人化、更遥远、更本质。我们从一位伟人的谈话中，甚至从对他的作品的钦佩沉思中获得的乐趣。

I was to end by complying with my grandmother’s wishes, all the more reluctantly in that Elstir lived at some distance from the ‘front’ in one of the newest of Balbec’s avenues. The heat of the day obliged me to take the tramway which passed along the Rue de la Plage, and I made an effort (so as still to believe that I was in the ancient realm of the Cimmerians, in the country it might be, of King Mark, or upon the site of the Forest of Broceliande) not to see the gimcrack splendour of the buildings that extended on either hand, among which Elstir’s villa was perhaps the most sumptuously hideous, in spite of which he had taken it, because, of all that there were to be had at Balbec, it was the only one that provided him with a really big studio.
最后，我要遵从祖母的意愿，更不情愿的是，埃尔斯蒂尔住在距离巴尔贝克最新大道之一的“前线”有一段距离的地方。天气炎热，我不得不乘坐沿着海滨路的有轨电车，我努力地（以便仍然相信我是在西梅里安人的古老王国里，在这个可能是的国家里）马克国王，或者在布罗塞利安德森林的遗址上）没有看到两边延伸的建筑物的华丽辉煌，其中埃尔斯蒂尔的别墅可能是最华丽而丑陋的，尽管如此，他还是占领了它，因为，在巴尔贝克所拥有的一切中，这是唯一一个为他提供了一个真正大的工作室的地方。

It was also with averted eyes that I crossed the garden, which had a lawn—in miniature, like any little suburban villa round Paris—a statuette of an amorous gardener, glass balls in which one saw one’s distorted reflexion, beds of begonias and a little arbour, beneath which rocking chairs were drawn up round an iron table. But after all these preliminaries hallmarked with philistine ugliness, I took no notice of the chocolate mouldings on the plinths once I was in the studio; I felt perfectly happy, for, with the help of all the sketches and studies that surrounded me, I foresaw the possibility of raising myself to a poetical understanding, rich in delights, of many forms which I had not, hitherto, isolated from the general spectacle of reality. And Elstir’s studio appeared to me as the laboratory of a sort of new creation of the world in which, from the chaos that is all the things we see, he had extracted, by painting them on various rectangles of canvas that were hung everywhere about the room, here a wave of the sea crushing angrily on the sand its lilac foam, there a young man in a suit of white linen, leaning upon the rail of a vessel. His jacket and the spattering wave had acquired fresh dignity from the fact that they continued to exist, even although they were deprived of those qualities in which they might be supposed to consist, the wave being no longer able to splash nor the jacket to clothe anyone.
我也是转过身去穿过花园，花园里有一片草坪——微型的，就像巴黎周围任何一座郊区的小别墅一样——一尊多情的园丁雕像，玻璃球，人们可以在其中看到自己扭曲的倒影，秋海棠花坛和一棵树。小凉棚下，一张铁桌子周围摆着摇椅。但在所有这些带有市侩丑陋特征的初步工作之后，当我进入工作室时，我并没有注意到底座上的巧克力造型；我没有注意到底座上的巧克力造型。我感到非常高兴，因为在我周围的所有草图和研究的帮助下，我预见到有可能将自己提升到一种诗意的理解，充满乐趣，具有多种形式，迄今为止，我还没有将这些形式与一般的事物隔离开来。现实的奇观。在我看来，埃尔斯蒂尔的工作室就像是一种新世界创造的实验室，在这个世界中，他从混乱中提取了我们所看到的所有事物，将它们画在挂在周围各处的各种矩形画布上。房间里，这里有海浪愤怒地拍打着沙滩上的淡紫色泡沫，那里有一个穿着白色亚麻布衣服的年轻人，靠在一艘船的栏杆上。他的夹克和飞溅的波浪因为它们继续存在而获得了新的尊严，尽管它们被剥夺了它们应有的那些品质，波浪不再能够飞溅，夹克也不再能够给任何人穿。 。

At the moment at which I entered, the creator was just finishing, with the brush which he had in his hand, the form of the sun at its setting.
我进去的时候，创作者刚刚用手中的画笔完成了夕阳西下的形状。

The shutters were closed almost everywhere round the studio, which was fairly cool and, except in one place where daylight laid against the wall its brilliant but fleeting decoration, dark; there was open only one little rectangular window embowered in honeysuckle, which, over a strip of garden, gave on an avenue; so that the atmosphere of the greater part of the studio was dusky, transparent and compact in the mass, but liquid and sparkling at the rifts where the golden clasp of sunlight banded it, like a lump of rock crystal of which one surface, already cut and polished, here and there, gleams like a mirror with iridescent rays. While Elstir, at my request, went on painting, I wandered about in the half-light, stopping to examine first one picture, then another.
工作室周围几乎所有地方的百叶窗都关着，工作室相当凉爽，除了一处日光照射在墙壁上的地方，其明亮但转瞬即逝的装饰是黑暗的。只开着一扇镶着金银花的长方形小窗，窗外是一条花园，通向一条林荫道。因此，工作室大部分的气氛是昏暗的、透明的、紧凑的，但在阳光的金色扣环处的裂缝处却是液态的、闪闪发光的，就像一块表面已经被切割过的水晶块到处都经过抛光，像镜子一样闪闪发光，散发着彩虹色的光芒。当埃尔斯蒂尔按照我的要求继续画画时，我在昏暗的灯光下徘徊，停下来检查第一幅画，然后是另一幅画。

Most of those that covered the walls were not what I should chiefly have liked to see of his work, paintings in what an English art journal which lay about on the reading-room table in the Grand Hotel called his first and second manners, the mythological manner and the manner in which he shewed signs of Japanese influence, both admirably exemplified, the article said, in the collection of Mme. de Guermantes. Naturally enough, what he had in his studio were almost all seascapes done here, at Balbec. But I was able to discern from these that the charm of each of them lay in a sort of metamorphosis of the things represented in it, analogous to what in poetry we call metaphor, and that, if God the Father had created things by naming them, it was by taking away their names or giving them other names that Elstir created them anew. The names which denote things correspond invariably to an intellectual notion, alien to our true impressions, and compelling us to eliminate from them everything that is not in keeping with itself.
墙上的大多数画作都不是我最想看到的他的作品，大饭店阅览室桌子上的一份英国艺术杂志上的画作称之为他的第一和第二举止，即神话。文章称，他的举止以及他表现出的日本影响迹象的方式，在夫人的收藏中都得到了令人钦佩的例证。德盖尔芒特。很自然，他工作室里的几乎都是在这里巴尔贝克完成的海景画。但我能够从这些中看出，它们每个的魅力在于其中所代表的事物的某种变形，类似于我们在诗歌中所说的隐喻，如果父神通过命名事物来创造它们，埃尔斯蒂尔通过去掉他们的名字或赋予他们其他名字来重新创造他们。表示事物的名称总是对应于一种智力概念，与我们的真实印象格格不入，并迫使我们从它们中消除一切不符合其本身的东西。

Sometimes in my window in the hotel at Balbec, in the morning when Françoise undid the fastenings of the curtains that shut out the light, in the evening when I was waiting until it should be time to go out with Saint-Loup, I had been led by some effect of sunlight to mistake what was only a darker stretch of sea for a distant coastline, or to gaze at a belt of liquid azure without knowing whether it belonged to sea or sky. But presently my reason would re-establish between the elements that distinction which in my first impression I had overlooked. In the same way I used, in Paris, in my bedroom, to hear a dispute, almost a. riot, in the street below, until I had referred back to its cause—a carriage for instance that was rattling towards me—this noise, from which I now eliminated the shrill and discordant vociferations which my ear had really heard but which my reason knew that wheels did not produce. But the rare moments in which we see nature as she is, with poetic vision, it was from those that Elstir’s work was taken. One of his metaphors that occurred most commonly in the seascapes which he had round him was precisely that which, comparing land with sea, suppressed every line of demarcation between them. It was this comparison, tacitly and untiringly repeated on a single canvas, which gave it that multiform and powerful unity, the cause (not always clearly perceived by themselves) of the enthusiasm which Elstir’s work aroused in certain collectors.
有时，在巴尔贝克旅馆的窗户里，早上，当弗朗索瓦丝解开遮光的窗帘时，晚上，当我等待着与圣卢出去的时候，我由于阳光的某种影响，人们将一片较暗的大海误认为是遥远的海岸线，或者凝视着一条液态蔚蓝的带子，却不知道它是属于大海还是天空。但不久之后，我的理性就会在这些元素之间重新建立起我在第一印象中所忽视的区别。就像我过去在巴黎的卧室里听到一场争执一样，几乎是。骚乱，在下面的街道上，直到我回想起它的原因——例如一辆马车朝我嘎嘎作响——这种噪音，我现在从中消除了我的耳朵确实听到过但我的理智知道的尖锐和不和谐的叫喊声那个轮子没有生产。但埃尔斯蒂尔的作品正是取材于那些难得的时刻，让我们以诗意的眼光看到自然的本来面目。他最常出现在他周围的海景中的隐喻之一，就是将陆地与海洋进行比较，消除了它们之间的每一条分界线。正是这种在一张画布上心照不宣、不知疲倦地重复的比较，赋予了它多种形式和强大的统一性，这也是埃尔斯蒂尔的作品在某些收藏家中激起热情的原因（他们自己并不总是清楚地意识到）。

It was, for instance, for a metaphor of this sort—in a picture of the harbour of Carquethuit, a picture which he had finished a few days earlier and at which I now stood gazing my fill—that Elstir had prepared the mind of the spectator by employing, for the little town, only marine terms, and urban terms for the sea. Whether its houses concealed a part of the harbour, a dry dock, or perhaps the sea itself came cranking in among the land, as constantly happened on the Balbec coast, on the other side of the promontory on which the town was built the roofs were overtopped (as it had been by mill-chimneys or church-steeples) by masts which had the effect of making the vessels to which they belonged appear town-bred, built on land, an impression which was strengthened by the sight of other boats, moored along the jetty but in such serried ranks that you could see men talking across from one deck to another without being able to distinguish the dividing line, the chink of water between them, so that this fishing fleet seemed less to belong to the water than, for instance, the churches of Criquebec which, in the far distance, surrounded by water on every side because you saw them without seeing the town, in a powdery haze of sunlight and crumbling waves, seemed to be emerging from the waters, blown in alabaster or in sea-foam, and, enclosed in the band of a particoloured rainbow, to form an unreal, a mystical picture. On the beach in the foreground the painter had arranged that the eye should discover no fixed boundary, no absolute line of demarcation between earth and ocean. The men who were pushing down their boats into the sea were running as much through the waves as along the sand, which, being wet, reflected their hulls as if they were already in the water. The sea itself did not come up in an even line but followed the irregularities of the shore, which the perspective of the picture increased still further, so that a ship actually at sea, half-hidden by the projecting works of the arsenal, seemed to be sailing across the middle of the town; women who were gathering shrimps among the rocks had the appearance, because they were surrounded by water and because of the depression which, after the ringlike barrier of rocks, brought the beach (on the side nearest the land) down to sea-level, of being in a marine grotto overhung by ships and waves, open yet unharmed in the path of a miraculously averted tide. If the whole picture gave this impression of harbours in which the sea entered into the land, in which the land was already subaqueous and the population amphibian, the strength of the marine element was everywhere apparent; and round about the rocks, at the mouth of the harbour, where the sea was rough, you felt from the muscular efforts of the fishermen and the obliquity of the boats leaning over at an acute angle, compared with the calm erect-ness of the warehouse on the harbour, the church, the houses of the town to which some of the figures were returning while others were coming out to fish, that they were riding bareback on the water, as it might be a swift and fiery animal whose rearing, but for their skill, must have unseated them. A party of holiday makers were putting gaily out to sea in a boat that tossed like a jaunting-car on a rough road; their boatman, blithe but attentive, also, to what he was doing, trimmed the bellying sail, every one kept in his place, so that the weight should not be all on one side of the boat, which might capsize, and so they went racing over sunlit fields into shadowy places, dashing down into the troughs of waves. It was a fine morning in spite of the recent storm. Indeed, one could still feel the powerful activities that must first be neutralized in order to attain the easy balance of the boats that lay motionless, enjoying sunshine and breeze, in parts where the sea was so calm that its reflexions had almost more solidity and reality than the floating hulls, vaporised by an effect of the sunlight, parts which the perspective of the picture dovetailed in among others. Or rather you would not have called them other parts of the sea. For between those parts there was as much difference as there was between one of them and the church rising from the water, or the ships behind the town. Your reason then set to work and made a single element of what was here black beneath a gathering storm, a little farther all of one colour with the sky and as brightly burnished, and elsewhere so bleached by sunshine, haze and foam, so compact, so terrestrial, so circumscribed with houses that you thought of some white stone causeway or of a field of snow, up the surface of which it was quite frightening to see a ship go climbing high and dry, as a carriage climbs dripping from a ford, but which a moment later, when you saw on the raised and broken surface of the solid plain boats drunkenly heaving, you understood, identical in all these different aspects, to be still the sea.
例如，正是为了这种隐喻——在一幅卡尔克图伊特港的画中，这幅画是他几天前完成的，我现在站在那里饱眼福——埃尔斯蒂尔为人们的思想做好了准备。对于小镇，仅使用海洋术语，对于海洋则使用城市术语。无论它的房屋隐藏着港口、干船坞的一部分，还是大海本身涌入陆地，就像巴尔贝克海岸经常发生的那样，在城镇所在海角的另一边，屋顶都是桅杆高过（就像磨坊烟囱或教堂尖塔一样），其作用是使它们所属的船只看起来像是城镇培育的、建在陆地上的，这种印象因其他船只的出现而得到加强，沿着码头停泊，但排列得如此密集，你可以看到人们从一个甲板到另一个甲板交谈，却无法区分分界线，他们之间的水缝，所以这支渔船队似乎不太属于水，而是属于水。例如，克里克贝克的教堂，在远处，四面环水，因为你看到它们而看不到城镇，在阳光的粉雾和破碎的波浪中，似乎从水中浮现出来，被吹来雪花石膏或海泡沫，并被封闭在彩色彩虹带中，形成一幅不真实的神秘图画。在前景的海滩上，画家安排眼睛不应发现固定的边界，大地与海洋之间没有绝对的分界线。那些把船推入海中的人们既在海浪中奔跑，又在沙滩上奔跑，沙子湿漉漉的，倒映着他们的船体，就好像他们已经在水里一样。 大海本身并不是沿着一条均匀的线出现的，而是沿着海岸的不规则形状，这使得画面的透视进一步增加，因此一艘实际上在海上的船，被兵工厂的突出工程半隐藏起来，似乎在航行穿过城镇中心；在岩石间采集虾的妇女们看起来像这样，因为她们周围都是水，而且由于岩石的环形屏障之后的凹陷，使海滩（最靠近陆地的一侧）下降到海平面，位于一个被船只和海浪悬在上方的海洋洞穴中，在奇迹般逆转的潮汐路径中，开放但未受到伤害。如果整个画面给人的印象是海洋进入陆地的港口，其中陆地已经是水下的，人口是两栖动物，那么海洋元素的力量无处不在；在岩石周围，在港口的入口处，海面波涛汹涌，你可以从渔民的肌肉努力和倾斜的小船中感受到，与平静的直立的大海相比，它们以锐角倾斜。港口的仓库、教堂、镇上的房屋，其中一些人物正在返回，而另一些人则出来钓鱼，他们骑着无鞍在水面上，就像它可能是一只敏捷而火热的动物，其饲养，但就他们的技巧而言，一定能把他们赶下台。 一群度假者正乘着一艘小船兴高采烈地出海，这艘船就像一辆在崎岖不平的道路上颠簸的汽车。他们的船夫很高兴，但也很专注于他正在做的事情，调整了腹帆，每个人都保持在自己的位置，这样重量就不会全部集中在船的一侧，否则可能会倾覆，所以他们去了冲过阳光明媚的田野，冲进阴暗的地方，冲进波谷。尽管最近遭遇了暴风雨，但这仍然是一个晴朗的早晨。事实上，人们仍然可以感受到强大的活动，必须首先消除这些活动，才能获得静止不动的船只的轻松平衡，享受阳光和微风，在大海如此平静的地方，它的反射几乎更加坚固和真实不是漂浮的船体，在阳光的作用下蒸发，这些部分与图片的透视相吻合。或者更确切地说，你不会称它们为海洋的其他部分。因为这些部分之间的差异就如同其中一个部分与从水中升起的教堂或城镇后面的船只之间的差异一样大。然后你的理性开始工作，使这里在一场聚集的暴风雨下黑色的单一元素，再远一点的地方都与天空同一种颜色，并且明亮地抛光，而其他地方则被阳光、薄雾和泡沫漂白，如此紧凑，如此陆地，如此被房屋所包围，以至于你会想到一些白色的石头堤道或一片雪地，在雪地的表面上，看到一艘船在高高干燥的地方爬行，就像一辆马车从浅滩爬上，滴着水，是相当可怕的，但片刻之后，当你看到坚固而平坦的小船在凸起和破碎的表面上醉醺醺地起伏时，你就明白，在所有这些不同的方面都是相同的，那就是大海。

Although we are justified in saying that there can be no progress, no discovery in art, but only in the sciences, and that the artist who begins afresh upon his own account an individual effort cannot be either helped or hindered by the efforts of all the others, we must nevertheless admit that, in so far as art brings into prominence certain laws, once an industry has taken those laws and vulgarised them, the art that was first in the field loses, in retrospect, a little of its originality. Since Elstir began to paint, we have grown familiar with what are called ‘admirable’ photographs of scenery and towns. If we press for a definition of what their admirers mean by the epithet, we shall find that it is generally applied to some unusual picture of a familiar object, a picture different from those that we are accustomed to see, unusual and yet true to nature, and for that reason doubly impressive to us because it startles us, makes us emerge from our habits and at the same time brings us back to ourselves by recalling to us an earlier impression. For instance, one of these ‘magnificent’ photographs will illustrate a law of perspective, will shew us some cathedral which we are accustomed to see in the middle of a town, taken instead from a selected point of view from which it will appear to be thirty times the height of the houses and to be thrusting a spur out from the bank of the river, from which it is actually a long way off. Now the effort made by Elstir to reproduce things not as he knew them to be but according to the optical illusions of which our first sight of them is composed, had led him exactly to this point; he gave special emphasis to certain of these laws of perspective, which were thus all the more striking, since his art had been their first interpreter. A river, because of the windings of its course, a bay because of the apparent contact of the cliffs on either side of it, would look as though there had been hollowed out in the heart of the plain or of the mountains a lake absolutely landlocked on every side. In a picture of a view from Balbec painted upon a scorching day in summer an inlet of the sea appeared to be enclosed in walls of pink granite, not to be the sea, which began farther out. The continuity of the ocean was suggested only by the gulls which, wheeling over what, when one looked at the picture, seemed to be solid rock, were as a matter of fact inhaling the moist vapour of the shifting tide. Other laws were discernible in the same canvas, as, at the foot of immense cliffs, the lilliputian grace of white sails on the blue mirror on whose surface they looked like butterflies asleep, and certain contrasts between the depth of the shadows and the pallidity of the light. This play of light and shade, which also photography has rendered commonplace, had interested Elstir so much that at one time he had painted what were almost mirages, in which a castle crowned with a tower appeared as a perfect circle of castle prolonged by a tower at its summit, and at its foot by an inverted tower, whether because the exceptional purity of the atmosphere on a fine day gave the shadow reflected in the water the hardness and brightness of the stone, or because the morning mists rendered the stone as vaporous as the shadow. And similarly, beyond the sea, behind a line of woods, began another sea roseate with the light of the setting sun, which was, in fact, the sky. The light, as it were precipitating new solids, thrust back the hull of the boat on which it fell behind the other hull that was still in shadow, and rearranged like the steps of a crystal staircase what was materially a plane surface, but was broken up by the play of light and shade upon the morning sea. A river running beneath the bridges of a town was caught from a certain point of view so that it appeared entirely dislocated, now broadened into a lake, now narrowed into a rivulet, broken elsewhere by the interruption of a hill crowned with trees among which the burgher would repair at evening to taste the refreshing breeze; and the rhythm of this disintegrated town was assured only by the inflexible uprightness of the steeples which did not rise but rather, following the plumb line of the pendulum marking its cadence as in a triumphal march, seemed to hold in suspense beneath them all the confused mass of houses that rose vaguely in the mist along the banks of the crushed, disjointed stream. And (since Elstir’s earliest work belonged to the time in which a painter would make his landscape attractive by inserting a human figure), on the cliff’s edge or among the mountains, the road, that half human part of nature, underwent, like river or ocean, the eclipses of perspective. And whether a sheer wall of mountain, or the mist blown from a torrent, or the sea prevented the eye from following the continuity of the path, visible to the traveller but not to us, the little human personage in old-fashioned attire seemed often to be stopped short on the edge of an abyss, the path which he had been following ending there, while, a thousand feet above him in those pine-forests, it was with a melting eye and comforted heart that we saw reappear the threadlike whiteness of its dusty surface, hospitable to the wayfaring foot, whereas from us the side of the mountain had hidden, where it turned to avoid waterfall or gully, the intervening bends.
尽管我们有理由说，艺术中不可能有进步、没有发现，而只有在科学中才能有进步，也没有发现，而艺术家重新开始自己的个人努力，不会受到所有人的努力的帮助或阻碍。然而，我们必须承认，就艺术突出某些规律而言，一旦一个行业接受了这些规律并将其庸俗化，那么回想起来，最初进入该领域的艺术就失去了一些原创性。自从埃尔斯蒂尔开始绘画以来，我们已经熟悉了所谓的“令人惊叹的”风景和城镇照片。如果我们迫切要求对他们的崇拜者所用的绰号的含义进行定义，我们会发现它通常适用于熟悉物体的一些不寻常的图片，与我们习惯看到的图片不同的图片，不寻常但又真实的自然正因为如此，它给我们留下了双重印象，因为它让我们震惊，让我们摆脱习惯，同时通过回忆起我们之前的印象，让我们回到自己身边。例如，其中一张“宏伟”的照片将说明透视法则，向我们展示一些我们习惯于在城镇中心看到的大教堂，而不是从选定的角度拍摄，从该角度来看，它看起来像是是房屋高度的三十倍，并且从河岸上伸出一根尖刺，实际上离河岸很远。现在，埃尔斯蒂尔努力按照我们第一眼看到的视觉错觉来再现事物，而不是按照他所知道的那样再现事物，这正是使他达到了这一点。他特别强调某些透视法则，因此这些法则更加引人注目，因为他的艺术是这些法则的第一个诠释者。 一条河流，因为它的河道蜿蜒，一个海湾，因为它两边的悬崖明显接触，看起来就像是在平原或山脉的中心挖空了一个完全内陆的湖泊。在每一面。在一幅描绘夏季炎热日子的巴尔贝克景色的画中，一个海湾似乎被粉红色花岗岩围成的墙壁所包围，而不是从更远的地方开始的大海。只有海鸥暗示了海洋的连续性，当人们看图片时，它们似乎是坚硬的岩石，事实上，它们在吸入潮汐变化的潮湿蒸汽。在同一张画布上，其他法则也清晰可见，比如，在巨大的悬崖脚下，蓝色镜子上白帆的小人般的优雅，在其表面上它们看起来就像睡着的蝴蝶，以及阴影的深度和苍白之间的某些对比。光。这种光与影的游戏，在摄影中也变得司空见惯，引起了埃尔斯蒂尔的极大兴趣，以至于他有一次画了几乎是海市蜃楼的作品，其中一座顶部有一座塔楼的城堡看起来像一个被塔楼延长的完美圆形城堡。无论是因为天气晴朗时，空气格外纯净，使得水中倒映的影子呈现出石头的坚硬和明亮，还是因为晨雾使石头变得水蒸气作为影子。同样，在海的另一边，在一片树林后面，又出现了一片带着落日余晖的海洋玫瑰色，那实际上是天空。 光，当它沉淀出新的固体时，将船体向后推，落在仍在阴影中的另一艘船体后面，并像水晶楼梯的台阶一样重新排列，本质上是一个平面，但被打破了早晨的海面上光影交错，升起。从某个角度来看，一条在城镇桥梁下流淌的河流显得完全错位，时而变宽为湖泊，时而变窄为小溪，在其他地方被一座长满树木的山丘所中断。傍晚时分，市民们会回来品尝清爽的微风。这座四分五裂的城镇的节奏只能通过尖塔的不灵活直立来保证，这些尖塔并没有升起，而是沿着钟摆的铅垂线，标志着凯旋进行曲的节奏，似乎使它们下面所有混乱的悬念都悬而未决。沿着破碎的、支离破碎的溪流两岸，大量的房屋在薄雾中隐约升起。而且（因为埃尔斯蒂尔最早的作品属于画家通过插入人物来使风景变得有吸引力的时代），在悬崖边缘或群山之中，道路，自然的一半人类部分，经历了，就像河流或河流一样。海洋，透视的日食。 无论是陡峭的山墙，还是激流吹来的薄雾，或者是大海，阻碍了眼睛追随路径的连续性，对旅行者来说是可见的，但对我们来说却看不到，穿着老式服装的小人物似乎经常出现在我们面前。在深渊的边缘突然停下来，他一直走的路就在那里结束了，而在他上方一千英尺的松树林里，我们带着融化的目光和安慰的心，看到了丝线般的白色重新出现尘土飞扬的表面，适合徒步旅行，而从我们看来，山的一侧隐藏着中间的弯道，为了避开瀑布或沟壑，它转向了那里。

The effort made by Elstir to strip himself, when face to face with reality, of every intellectual concept, was all the more admirable in that this man who, before sitting down to paint, made himself deliberately ignorant, forgot, in his honesty of purpose, everything that he knew, since what one knows ceases to exist by itself, had in reality an exceptionally cultivated mind. When I confessed to him the disappointment that I had felt upon seeing the porch at Balbec: ‘What!’ he had exclaimed, ‘you were disappointed by the porch! Why, it’s the finest illustrated Bible that the people have ever had. That Virgin, and all the has-reliefs telling the story of her life, they are the most loving, the most inspired expression of that endless poem of adoration and praise in which the middle ages extolled the glory of the Madonna. If you only knew, side by side with the most scrupulous accuracy in rendering the sacred text, what exquisite ideas the old carver had, what profound thoughts, what delicious poetry!
当面对现实时，埃尔斯蒂尔努力摆脱一切理智概念，这一点更令人钦佩，因为这个人在坐下来绘画之前，在他诚实的目的中故意让自己无知、忘记。 ，他所知道的一切，因为一个人所知道的东西不再单独存在，实际上拥有一颗异常有教养的心灵。当我向他坦白看到巴尔贝克的门廊时感到的失望时，他大声说道：“什么！你对门廊感到失望！”为什么，这是人们拥有过的最好的插图圣经。圣母玛利亚，以及所有讲述她一生故事的浮雕，它们是中世纪歌颂圣母荣耀的无尽崇拜和赞美诗中最有爱、最有灵感的表达。如果你知道，在以最一丝不苟的准确性来呈现神圣文字的同时，老雕刻师的想法是多么精妙，思想是多么深刻，诗篇是多么美妙！

‘A wonderful idea, that great sheet in which the angels are carrying the body of the Virgin, too sacred for them to venture to touch it with their hands”; (I mentioned to him that this theme had been treated also at Saint-André-des-Champs; he had seen photographs of the porch there, and agreed, but pointed out that the bustling activity of those little peasant figures, all hurrying at once towards the Virgin, was not the same thing as the gravity of those two great angels, almost Italian, so springing, so gentle) ‘the angel who is carrying the Virgin’s soul, to reunite it with her body; in the meeting of the Virgin with Elizabeth, Elizabeth’s gestijre when she touches the Virgin’s Womb and marvels to feel that it is great with child; and the bandaged arm of the midwife who had refused, unless she touched, to believe the Immaculate Conception; and the linen cloth thrown by the Virgin to Saint Thomas to give him a proof of the Resurrection; that veil, too, which the Virgin tears from her own bosom to cover the nakedness of her Son, from Whose Side the Church receives in a chalice the Wine of the Sacrament, while, on His other side the Synagogue, whose kingdom is at an end, has its eyes bandaged, holds a half-broken sceptre and lets fall, with the crown that is slipping from its head, the tables of the old law; and the husband who, on the Day of Judgment, as he helps his young wife to rise from her grave, lays her hand against his own heart to reassure her, to prove to her that it is indeed beating, is that such a trumpery idea, do you think, so stale and commonplace? And the angel who is taking away the sun and the moon, henceforth useless, since it is written that the Light of the Cross shall be seven times brighter than the light of the firmament; and the one who is dipping his hand in the water of the Child’s bath, to see whether it is warm enough; and the one emerging from the clouds to place the crown upon the Virgin’s brow, and all the angels who are leaning from the vault of heaven, between the balusters of the New Jerusalem, and throwing up their arms with terror or joy at the sight of the torments of the wicked or the bliss of the elect! For it is all the circles of heaven, a whole gigantic poem full of theology and symbolism that you have before you there. It is fantastic, mad, divine, a thousand times better than anything you will see in Italy, where for that matter this very tympanum has been carefully copied by sculptors with far less genius. There never was a time when genius was universal; that is all nonsense; it would be going beyond the age of gold. The fellow who carved that front, you may make up your mind that he was every bit as great, that he had just as profound ideas as the men you admire most at the present day. I could shew you what I mean if we went there together. There are certain passages from the Office of the Assumption which have been rendered with a subtilty of expression that Redon himself has never equalled.’
“这是一个绝妙的主意，天使们在这张巨大的床单上承载着圣母的身体，这对他们来说太神圣了，以至于不敢用手触摸它”； （我向他提到，这个主题也在圣安德烈德尚得到了处理；他看过那里门廊的照片，并同意，但指出那些小农民人物的忙碌活动，都在同时匆忙朝向圣母的，与那两个伟大的天使的重力不是一回事，几乎是意大利的，那么跳跃，那么温柔）“承载着圣母灵魂的天使，将其与她的身体重新结合;”在圣母与伊丽莎白的会面中，伊丽莎白触摸圣母的子宫并惊奇地感受到怀孕的美好，这是她的手势；还有助产士缠着绷带的手臂，除非她触摸，否则她拒绝相信圣母无染原罪；以及圣母玛利亚扔给圣托马斯的亚麻布，以证明他复活了；圣母玛利亚从她怀里撕下那面纱，遮盖她儿子的裸体，教会从他的一侧接受圣杯中的圣礼酒，而在他的另一侧，犹太教堂，其王国位于圣殿的一侧。最后，它的眼睛缠着绷带，拿着一根半断的权杖，让旧法的法典掉落下来，王冠也从它的头上滑落。在审判日，当丈夫帮助他年轻的妻子从坟墓中复活时，他把手放在她自己的心脏上以安抚她，向她证明它确实在跳动，这是一个多么愚蠢的想法，你觉得这样陈旧、平庸吗？ 带走太阳和月亮的天使从此不再有用，因为据记载，十字架之光将比天空之光亮七倍；还有一个人把手伸进孩子洗澡的水里，看看水是否足够暖和；还有从云中出现将王冠戴在圣母额头上的天使，以及所有从天穹斜倚在新耶路撒冷栏杆之间的天使，他们一看到圣母，就或惊恐或喜悦地举起双臂。恶人的痛苦或选民的幸福！因为它是天堂的所有圆圈，是一首充满神学和象征意义的巨诗，摆在你面前。它是奇妙的、疯狂的、神圣的，比你在意大利看到的任何东西都要好一千倍，就这一点而言，这张鼓膜是由远不那么天才的雕塑家仔细复制的。从来没有一个时代天才是普遍存在的。那都是废话；它将超越黄金时代。那个雕刻了这面旗帜的人，你可能会认为他和你当今最敬佩的人一样伟大，他有一样深刻的思想。如果我们一起去那里，我就能告诉你我的意思。 《圣母升天办公室》中的某些段落以雷东本人从未达到过的微妙表达方式呈现。’

This vast celestial vision of which he spoke to me, this gigantic theological poem which, I understood, had been inscribed there in stone, yet when my eyes, big with desire, had opened to gaze upon the front of Balbec church, it was not these things that I had seen. I spoke to him of those great statues of saints, which, mounted on scaffolds, formed a sort of avenue on either side.
他向我讲述的这幅巨大的天象，这首巨大的神学诗，据我所知，是刻在石头上的，然而，当我满怀渴望地睁开眼睛凝视巴尔贝克教堂的正面时，它并不存在。我所看到的这些事情。我向他谈到了那些伟大的圣人雕像，这些雕像安装在脚手架上，在两侧形成了一条大道。

‘It starts from the mists of antiquity to end in Jesus Christ,’ he explained. ‘You see on one side His ancestors after the spirit, on the other the Kings of Judah, His ancestors after the flesh. All the ages are there. And if you had looked more closely at what you took for scaffolds you would have been able to give names to the figures standing on them. At the feet of Moses you would have recognised the calf of gold, at Abraham’s the ram and at Joseph’s the demon counselling Potiphar’s wife.’
“它从古代的迷雾开始，到耶稣基督结束，”他解释道。 ‘你在一侧看到他的祖先在精神上，在另一侧看到犹大的国王，他的祖先在肉体上。所有年龄段的人都在那里。如果你更仔细地观察脚手架，你就能给站在脚手架上的人物命名。在摩西的脚下，你会认出金牛犊，在亚伯拉罕的脚下，你会认出公羊，在约瑟的脚下，你会认出是劝告波提乏妻子的恶魔。

I told him also that I had gone there expecting to find an almost Persian building, and that this had doubtless been one of the chief factors in my disappointment. ‘Indeed, no,’ he assured me, ‘it is perfectly true. Some parts of it are quite oriental; one of the capitals reproduces so exactly a Persian subject that you cannot account for it by the persistence of Oriental traditions. The carver must have copied some casket brought from the East by explorers.’ And he did indeed shew me, later on, the photograph of a capital on which I saw dragons that were almost Chinese devouring one another, but at Balbec this little piece of carving had passed unnoticed by me in the general effect of the building which did not conform to the pattern traced in my mind by the words, ‘an almost Persian church.’
我还告诉他，我去那里期望能找到一座几乎是波斯风格的建筑，而这无疑是我失望的主要原因之一。 “确实，不，”他向我保证，“这是千真万确的。”其中有些部分颇具东方特色；其中一个首都如此精确地再现了波斯主题，以至于你无法用东方传统的持久性来解释它。雕刻师一定是复制了探险家从东方带来的一些棺材。”后来，他确实给我看了一张首都的照片，我在上面看到了几乎是中国的龙互相吞噬，但在巴尔贝克，这一小块我没有注意到这座建筑的总体效果，它与我脑海中“一座几乎是波斯式的教堂”这句话所描绘的模式不符。

The intellectual pleasures which I enjoyed in this studio did not in the least prevent me from feeling, although they enveloped us as it were in spite of ourselves, the warm polish, the sparkling gloom of the place itself and, through the little window framed in honeysuckle, in the avenue that was quite rustic, the resisting dryness of the sun-parched earth, screened only by the diaphanous gauze woven of distance and of a tree-cast shade. Perhaps the unaccountable feeling of comfort which this summer day was giving me came like a tributary to swell the flood of joy that had surged in me at the sight of Elstir’s Carquethuit Harbour.
我在这个工作室里享受到的智力上的乐趣丝毫没有阻止我感受到，尽管它们不由自主地笼罩着我们，但这个地方本身的温暖抛光和闪闪发光的阴暗，以及透过镶在窗子里的小窗户，金银花，在一条相当质朴的大道上，阳光炙烤的大地抵抗着干燥，只有远方和树荫编织的透明薄纱遮蔽着它。也许这个夏日给我带来的莫名的舒适感就像一条支流，使我在看到埃尔斯蒂尔的卡克苏伊特港时涌起的喜悦之情涌上心头。

I had supposed Elstir to be a modest man, but I realised my mistake on seeing his face cloud with melancholy when, in a little speech of thanks, I uttered the word ‘fame.’ Men who believe that their work will last—as was the case with Elstir—form the habit of placing that work in a period when they themselves will have crumbled into dust. And thus, by obliging them to reflect on their own extinction, the thought of fame saddens them because it is inseparable from the thought of death. I changed the conversation in the hope of driving away the cloud of ambitious melancholy with which unwittingly I had loaded Elstir’s brow. ‘Some one advised me once,’ I began, thinking of the conversation we had had with Legrandin at Combray, as to which I was glad of an opportunity of learning Elstir’s views, ‘not to visit Brittany, because it would not be wholesome for a mind with a natural tendency to dream.’ ‘Not at all;’ he replied. ‘When the mind has a tendency to dream, it is a mistake to keep dreams away from it, to ration its dreams. So long as you distract your mind from its dreams, it will not know them for what they are; you will always be being taken in by the appearance of things, because you will not have grasped their true nature. If a little dreaming is dangerous, the cure for it is not to dream less but to dream more, to dream all the time. One must have a thorough understanding of one’s dreams if one is not to be troubled by them; there is a way of separating one’s dreams from one’s life which so often produces good results that I ask myself whether one ought not, at all costs, to try it, simply as a preventive, just as certain surgeons make out that we ought, to avoid the risk of appendicitis later on, to have all our appendices taken out when we are children.’
我本以为埃尔斯蒂尔是一个谦虚的人，但当我在简短的致谢词中说出“名声”这个词时，看到他脸上忧郁的表情，我意识到自己的错误。埃尔斯蒂尔的例子就是——养成把作品放在它们本身就会化为尘埃的时期的习惯。因此，通过迫使他们反思自己的灭绝，名誉的想法使他们感到悲伤，因为它与死亡的想法密不可分。我改变了谈话方式，希望能驱散埃尔斯蒂尔额头上不知不觉间笼罩的雄心勃勃的忧郁阴云。 “有一次，有人建议我，”我开始回忆起我们在贡布雷与勒格朗丹的谈话，我很高兴有机会了解埃尔斯蒂尔的观点，“不要去布列塔尼，因为这对健康不利。” “一点也不。”他回答道。 “当头脑有做梦的倾向时，让梦想远离它、限制它的梦想就是错误的。只要你把你的心从梦中转移开来，它就不会知道它们是什么；它不会知道它们是什么。你总是被事物的表象所迷惑，因为你没有掌握它们的真实本质。如果做一点梦是危险的，那么解决它的方法不是少做梦，而是多做梦，一直做梦。一个人要想不被梦困扰，就必须对自己的梦有透彻的了解；有一种方法可以将一个人的梦想与生活分开，这种方法常常会产生良好的结果，因此我问自己，是否应该不惜一切代价去尝试它，只是作为一种预防措施，就像某些外科医生认为我们应该这样做一样。为了避免以后患阑尾炎的风险，在我们还是孩子的时候就把我们所有的阑尾都切除了。”

Elstir and I had meanwhile been walking about the studio, and had reached the window that looked across the garden on to a narrow avenue, a side-street that was almost a country lane. We had gone there to breathe the cooler air of the late afternoon. I supposed myself to be nowhere near the girls of the little band, and it was only by sacrificing for once the hope of seeing them that I had yielded to my grandmother’s prayers and had gone to see Elstir. For where the thing is to be found that we are seeking we never know, and often we steadily, for a long time, avoid the place to which, for quite different reasons, everyone has been asking us to go. But we never suspect that we shall there see the very person of whom we are thinking. I looked out vaguely over the country road which, outside the studio, passed quite close to it but did not belong to Elstir. Suddenly there appeared on it, coming along it at a rapid pace, the young bicyclist of the little band, with, over her dark hair, her polo-cap pulled down towards her plump cheeks, her eyes merry and almost importunate; and on that auspicious path, miraculously filled with promise of delights, I saw her beneath the trees throw to Elstir the smiling greeting of a friend, a rainbow that bridged the gulf for me between our terraqueous world and regions which I had hitherto regarded as inaccessible. She even came up to give her hand to the painter, though without stopping, and I could see that she had a tiny beauty spot on her chin. ‘Do you know that girl, sir?’ I asked Elstir, realising that he could if he chose make me known to her, could invite us both to the house. And this peaceful studio with its rural horizon was at once filled with a surfeit of delight such as a child might feel in a house where he was already happily playing when he learned that, in addition, out of that bounteousness which enables lovely things and noble hosts to increase their gifts beyond all measure, there was being prepared for him a sumptuous repast. Elstir told me that she was called Albertine Simonet, and gave me the names also of her friends, whom I described to him with sufficient accuracy for him to identify them almost without hesitation. I had, with regard to their social position, made a mistake, but not the mistake that I usually made at Balbec. I was always ready to take for princes the sons of shopkeepers when they appeared on horseback. This time I had placed in an interloping class the daughters of a set of respectable people, extremely rich, belonging to the world of industry and business. It was the class which, on first thoughts, interested me least, since it held for me neither the mystery of the lower orders nor that of a society such as the Guermantes frequented. And no doubt if an inherent quality, a rank which they could never forfeit, had not been conferred on them, in my dazzled eyes, by the glaring vacuity of the seaside life all round them, I should perhaps not have succeeded in resisting and overcoming the idea that they were the daughters of prosperous merchants. I could not help marvelling to see how the French middle class was a wonderful studio full of sculpture of the noblest and most varied kind. What unimagined types, what richness of invention in the character of their faces, what firmness, what freshness, what simplicity in their features. The shrewd old moneychangers from whose loins these Dianas and these nymphs had sprung seemed to me to have been the greatest of statuaries. Before I had time to register the social metamorphosis of these girls—so are these discoveries of a mistake, these modifications of the notion one has of a person instantaneous as a chemical combination—there was already installed behind their faces, so street-arab in type that I had taken them for the mistresses of racing bicyclists, of boxing champions, the idea that they might easily be connected with the family of some lawyer or other whom we knew. I was barely conscious of what was meant by Albertine Simonet; she had certainly no conception of what she was one day to mean to me. Even the name, Simonet, which I had already heard spoken on the beach, if I had been asked to write it down I should have spelt with a double ‘n,’ never dreaming of the importance which this family attached to there being but one in their name. In proportion as we descend the social scale our snobbishness fastens on to mere nothings which are perhaps no more null than the distinctions observed by the aristocracy, but, being more obscure, more peculiar to the individual, take us more by surprise. Possibly there had been Simonnets who had done badly in business, or something worse still even. The fact remains that the Simonets never failed, it appeared, to be annoyed if anyone doubled their ‘n.’ They wore the air of being the only Simonets in the world with one ‘n’ instead of two, and were as proud of it, perhaps, as the Montmorency family were of being the premier barons of France. I asked Elstir whether these girls lived at Balbec; yes, he told me, some of them at any rate. The villa in which one of them lived was at that very spot, right at the end of the beach, where the cliffs of Canapville began. As this girl was a great friend of Albertine Simonet, this was another reason for me to believe that it was indeed the latter whom I had met that day when I was with my grandmother. There were of course so many of those little streets running down to the beach, and all at the same angle, that I could not have pointed out exactly which of them it had been. One would like always to remember a thing accurately, but at the time one’s vision was clouded. And yet that Albertine and the girl whom I had seen going to her friend’s house were one and the same person was a practical certainty. In spite of which, whereas the countless images that have since been furnished me by the dark young golfer, however different they may have been from one another, have overlaid one another (because I now know that they all belong to her), and if I retrace the thread of my memories I can, under cover of that identity, and as though along a tunnelled passage, pass through all those images in turn without losing my consciousness of the same person behind them all, if, on the other hand, I wish to revert to the girl whom I passed that day when I was with my grandmother, I must escape first into freer air. I am convinced that it is Albertine whom I find there, the same girl as her who would often stop dead among her moving comrades, in her walk along the foreground of the sea; but all those more recent images remain separate from that earlier one because I am unable to confer on her retrospectively an identity which she had not for me at the moment in which she caught my eye; whatever assurance I may derive from the law of probabilities, that girl with plump cheeks who stared at me so boldly from the angle of the little street and the beach, and by whom I believe that I might have been loved, I have never, in the strict sense of the words, seen again.
与此同时，埃尔斯蒂尔和我在工作室里走来走去，走到了窗户前，透过窗户可以看到花园对面的一条狭窄的大道，一条几乎是乡间小路的小街。我们去那里是为了呼吸下午晚些时候凉爽的空气。我以为自己与小乐队的女孩们相差甚远，只是牺牲了一次见到她们的希望，我才屈服于祖母的祈祷，去见了埃尔斯蒂尔。因为我们永远不知道在哪里可以找到我们正在寻找的东西，而且我们常常在很长一段时间内一直避开每个人都因为不同的原因而要求我们去的地方。但我们从不怀疑我们会在那里看到我们所想的那个人。我模模糊糊地望着画室外面的乡间小路，它离我很近，但不属于埃尔斯蒂尔。突然，小乐队中的年轻自行车手出现在上面，沿着它飞快地走来，她的黑发上戴着马球帽，拉到了丰满的脸颊上，她的眼睛充满快乐，几乎是恳求；在那条吉祥的道路上，奇迹般地充满了欢乐的希望，我看到她在树下向埃尔斯蒂尔投出了一位朋友微笑的问候，一道彩虹为我架起了我们的陆地世界和我迄今为止认为难以到达的地区之间的鸿沟。 。她甚至上前向画家伸出手，但没有停下来，我可以看到她的下巴上有一个小小的美人痣。 “先生，你认识那个女孩吗？”我问埃尔斯蒂尔，意识到如果他愿意让我认识她，他就可以邀请我们俩去家里。 这间宁静的工作室，面朝乡村的地平线，立刻充满了一种过度的快乐，就像一个孩子在一个房子里可能会感受到的那样，他已经在快乐地玩耍，当他得知，此外，出于那种慷慨，可以创造出可爱的东西和高贵的东西。主人们为他准备了丰盛的晚餐。埃尔斯蒂尔告诉我，她叫阿尔贝蒂娜·西蒙内，还给了我她朋友的名字，我向他描述了他们的名字，足够准确，他几乎可以毫不犹豫地认出他们。关于他们的社会地位，我犯了一个错误，但不是我在巴尔贝克经常犯的错误。当店主的儿子出现在马背上时，我总是准备好将他们视为王子。这次，我把一群受人尊敬的人的女儿分到了一个插班，她们非常富有，属于工业和商业界。乍一想，这个阶层是我最不感兴趣的，因为它对我来说既不具有下层社会的神秘性，也不具有像盖尔芒特家族那样经常光顾的社会的神秘性。毫无疑问，在我眼花缭乱的眼睛里，他们周围的海边生活明显空虚，如果他们没有被赋予一种内在的品质，一种他们永远无法放弃的地位，我也许不会成功地抵抗和克服。人们认为她们是富裕商人的女儿。看到法国中产阶级是一个充满最高贵、最多样化的雕塑的奇妙工作室，我不禁惊叹不已。多么难以想象的类型，他们脸上的性格是多么丰富的创造力，他们的特征是多么坚定、多么新鲜、多么简单。 那些精明的老货币兑换商从他们的腰间诞生了这些戴安娜和这些仙女，在我看来，他们是最伟大的雕像。在我有时间记录这些女孩的社会变态之前——这些错误的发现，这些对一个人的概念的修改瞬间作为一种化学组合——已经安装在她们的脸上，所以街头阿拉伯我认为她们是赛车手、拳击冠军的情妇，认为她们很容易与某个律师或其他我们认识的人的家人联系在一起。我几乎没有意识到阿尔贝蒂娜·西蒙内的意思。她当然不知道有一天她对我意味着什么。甚至连我在海滩上都听到过的名字“西蒙内特”（Simonet），如果让我写下来，我也会拼写成两个“n”，做梦也没想到这个家庭如此重视这个名字，只有一个。以他们的名义。随着我们社会地位的下降，我们的势利感也逐渐集中在一些无足轻重的东西上，这些东西也许并不比贵族所观察到的区别更微不足道，但是，对于个人来说，它更加晦涩难懂，更加独特，让我们更加惊讶。可能有些西蒙内茨的生意做得很糟糕，甚至更糟。事实上，西蒙内茨家族似乎从来没有失败过，如果有人将“n”加倍，他们就会感到恼火。他们看上去像是世界上唯一一个用一个“n”而不是两个的西蒙内茨家族，并为此感到自豪。或许，正如蒙莫朗西家族是法国首屈一指的男爵一样。我问埃尔斯蒂尔这些女孩是否住在巴尔贝克；是的，他告诉我，至少有一些。 他们中的一个人住的别墅就在那个地方，就在海滩的尽头，卡纳普维尔悬崖的起点。由于这个女孩是阿尔贝蒂娜·西蒙内的好朋友，这也是我相信那天我和祖母在一起时遇见的确实是后者的另一个原因。当然，有很多条小街道一直延伸到海滩，而且都以相同的角度，我无法准确指出是哪一条。人总是想准确地记住一件事，但当时的视线却是模糊的。然而，阿尔贝蒂娜和我看到去她朋友家的那个女孩确实是同一个人，而且是同一个人，这确实是确定无疑的。尽管如此，尽管后来这位黑人年轻高尔夫球手向我提供了无数的图像，无论它们之间有多么不同，它们都相互重叠（因为我现在知道它们都属于她），并且如果我追溯我的记忆线索，在那个身份的掩护下，就像沿着一条隧道一样，依次穿过所有这些图像，而不会失去对它们背后同一个人的意识，如果，另一方面，我想回到那天和祖母在一起时经过的那个女孩，我必须先逃到更自由的空气中。 我确信我在那儿找到的就是阿尔贝蒂娜，就是那个经常在移动的伙伴中间停下脚步、沿着大海前行的女孩。但是，所有这些最近的图像仍然与早期的图像分开，因为我无法回顾性地赋予她一种身份，而在她引起我注意的那一刻，她还没有为我提供这种身份。无论我从概率法则中得到什么保证，那个从小街和海滩的角度如此大胆地盯着我的脸颊丰满的女孩，我相信她可能会爱我，但我从来没有，严格意义上的单词，再次看到。

My hesitation between the different girls of the little band, all of whom retained something of the collective charm which had at first disturbed me, combined with the reasons already given to allow me later on, even at the time of my greater—my second—passion for Albertine, a sort of intermittent and very brief liberty to abstain from loving her. From having strayed among all her friends before it finally concentrated itself on her, my love kept, now and then, between itself and the image of Albertine a certain ‘play’ of light and shade which enabled it, like a badly fitted lamp, to flit over the surface of each of the others before settling its focus upon her; the connexion between the pain which I felt in my heart and the memory of Albertine did not seem to me necessary; I might perhaps have managed to co-ordinate it with the image of another person, Which enabled me, in a momentary flash, to banish reality altogether, not only external reality, as in my love for Gilberte (which I had recognised to be an internal state in which I drew from myself alone the particular quality, the special character of the person whom I loved, everything that rendered her indispensable to my happiness), but even the other reality, internal and purely subjective.
我在小乐队的不同女孩之间犹豫不决，她们所有人都保留了一些最初让我感到不安的集体魅力，再加上已经给出的理由允许我后来，甚至在我更伟大的——我的第二——的时候。对阿尔贝蒂娜的热情，是一种间歇性的、非常短暂的不爱她的自由。我的爱在她所有的朋友中徘徊，最终集中在她身上，我的爱时不时地在自己和阿尔贝蒂娜的形象之间保留着某种光影的“游戏”，这使它像一盏不合适的灯一样，掠过其他人的表面，然后将焦点集中在她身上；我觉得我内心的痛苦与阿尔贝蒂娜的记忆之间没有必然联系。我或许可以设法将它与另一个人的形象相协调，这使我能够在一瞬间完全消除现实，而不仅仅是外部现实，就像我对希尔贝特的爱一样（我已经认识到这是一个在这种内在状态中，我仅从自己身上汲取我所爱的人的特殊品质、特殊性格，以及使她对我的幸福不可或缺的一切），甚至是其他现实，内在的和纯粹主观的。

‘Not a day passes but one or the other of them comes by here, and looks in for a minute or two,’ Elstir told me, plunging me in despair when I thought that if I had gone to see him at once, when my grandmother had begged me to do so, I should, in all probability, long since have made Albertine’s acquaintance.
埃尔斯蒂尔告诉我：“不到一天，他们中的一个就会过来这里看一两分钟。”当我想到如果我立即去看他时，我的孩子就会陷入绝望。祖母恳求我这样做，我很可能早就结识了阿尔贝蒂娜。

She had passed on; from the studio she was no longer in sight. I supposed that she had gone to join her friends on the ‘front.’ Could I have appeared there suddenly with Elstir, I should have got to know them all. I thought of endless pretexts for inducing him to take a turn with me on the beach. I had no longer the same peace of mind as before the apparition of the girl in the frame of the little window; so charming until then in its fringe of honeysuckle, and now so drearily empty. Elstir caused me a joy that was tormenting also when he said that he would go a little way with me, but that he must first finish the piece of work on which he was engaged. It was a flower study but not one of any of the flowers, portraits of which I would rather have commissioned him to paint than the portrait of a person, so that I might learn from the revelation of his genius what I had so often sought in vain from the flowers themselves—hawthorn white and pink, cornflowers, apple-blossom. Elstir as he worked talked botany to me, but I scarcely listened; he was no longer sufficient in himself, he was now only the necessary intermediary between these girls and me; the distinction which, only a few moments ago, his talent had still given him in my eyes was now worthless save in so far as it might confer a little on me also in the eyes of the little band to whom I should be presented by him.
她已经去世了；从工作室里就看不到她的身影了。我猜想她是去前线和她的朋友们会合了。如果我和埃尔斯蒂尔突然出现在那里，我应该认识他们所有人。我想了无数个借口来引诱他和我一起去海滩玩。我不再像小窗框里那个女孩的幻影之前那样平静。在那之前，它在金银花的边缘是那么迷人，而现在却是那么凄凉空虚。埃尔斯蒂尔给我带来了欢乐，但当他说他愿意和我一起走一段路，但他必须先完成他正在从事的工作时，这也是一种折磨。这是一幅花卉研究，但不是任何一种花卉的肖像，我宁愿委托他画肖像，而不是人物肖像，这样我就可以从他天才的启示中学到我经常寻求的东西。花朵本身是徒劳的——白色和粉红色的山楂花、矢车菊、苹果花。埃尔斯蒂尔一边工作，一边给我讲植物学，但我几乎没听。他自己已经不够了，他现在只是这些女孩和我之间必要的中间人。就在几分钟前，他的才华在我眼中仍然给他带来的荣誉现在已经毫无价值了，除非它可以在我应该由他介绍给我的小乐队的眼中赋予我一点价值。 。

I paced up and down the room, impatient for him to finish what he was doing; I picked up and examined various sketches, any number of which were stacked against the walls. In this way I happened to bring to light a water-colour which evidently belonged to a much earlier period in Elstir’s life, and gave me that particular kind of enchantment which is diffused by works of art not only deliriously executed but representing a subject so singular and so seductive that it is to it that we attribute a great deal of their charm, as if the charm were something that the painter had merely to uncover, to observe, realised already in a material form by nature, and to reproduce in art. That such objects can exist, beautiful quite apart from the painter’s interpretation of them, satisfies a sort of innate materialism in us, against which our reason contends and acts as a counterpoise to the abstractions of aesthetics. It was—this water-colour—the portrait of a young woman, by no means beautiful but of a curious type, in a close-fitting mob-cap not unlike a ‘billy-cock’ hat, trimmed with a ribbon of cherry-coloured silk; in one of her mittened hands was a lighted cigarette, while the other held, level with her knee, a sort of broad-brimmed garden hat, nothing more than a fire screen of plaited straw to keep off the sun. On a table by her side, a tall vase filled with pink carnations. Often (and it was the case here) the singularity of such works is due principally to their having been executed in special conditions for which we do not at first sight make proper allowance, if, for instance, the strange attire of a feminine model is her costume for a masked ball, or conversely the scarlet cloak which an elderly man looks as though he had put on to humour some whim in the painter is his gown as a professor or alderman or his cardinal’s cassock. The ambiguous character of the person whose portrait now confronted me arose, without my understanding it, from the fact that she was a young actress of an earlier generation half dressed for a part. But the cap or hat, beneath which the hair stuck out but was cut short, the velvet coat opening without lapels over a white shirt-front, made me hesitate as to the period of the clothes and the sex of the model, so that I did not know what it was exactly that I was holding before my eyes, unless simply the brightest coloured of these scraps of painting. And the pleasure which it afforded me was disturbed only by the fear that Elstir, by delaying further, would make me miss the girls, for the sun was now declining and hung low in the little window. Nothing in this water-colour was merely stated there as a fact and painted because of its utility to the composition, the costume because the young woman must be wearing something, the vase to hold the flowers. The glass of the vase, cherished for its own sake, seemed to be holding the water in which the stems of the carnations were dipped in something as limpid, almost as liquid as itself; the woman’s dress encompassed her in a manner that had an independent, a brotherly charm, and, if the works of man can compete in charm with the wonders of nature, as delicate, as pleasing to the touch of the eye, as freshly painted as the fur of a cat, the petals of a flower, the feathers of a dove. The whiteness of the shirt-front, fine as driven rain, with its gay pleats gathered into little bells like lilies of the valley, was starred with bright gleams of light from the room, as sharply edged and as finely shaded as though they had been posies of flowers stitched on the woven lawn. And the velvet of the coat, brilliant with a milky sheen, had here and there a roughness, a scoring, a shagginess on its surface which made one think of the crumpled brightness of the carnations in the vase. But above all one felt that Elstir, sublimely indifferent to whatever immoral suggestion there might be in this disguise of a young actress for whom the talent with which she would play her part on the stage was doubtless of less importance than the irritant attraction which she would offer to the jaded or depraved senses of some of her audience, had on the contrary fastened upon those ambiguous points as on an aesthetic element which deserved to be brought into prominence, and which he had done everything in his power to emphasise. Along the lines of the face, the latent sex seemed to be on the point of confessing itself to be that of a somewhat boyish girl, then vanished and farther on reappeared with a suggestion rather of an effeminate youth, vicious and pensive, then fled once more to remain uncapturable. The dreamy sadness in the expression of her eyes, by the mere fact of its contrast with the accessories belonging to the world of love-making and play-acting, was not the least disturbing element in the picture. One imagined moreover that it must be feigned, and that the young person who seemed ready to submit to caresses in this provoking costume had probably thought it effective to enhance the provocation with this romantic expression of a secret longing, an unspoken grief. At the foot of the picture was inscribed ‘Miss Sacripant: October, 1872.’ I could not contain my admiration. ‘Oh, it’s nothing, only a rough sketch I did when I was young; it was a costume for a variety show. It’s all ages ago now.’ ‘And what has become of the model?’ A bewilderment provoked by my words preceded on Elstir’s face the indifferent, absent-minded air which, a moment later, he displayed there. ‘Quick, give it to me!’ he cried, ‘I hear Madame Elstir coming, and, though, I assure you, the young person in the billy-cock hat never played any part in my life, still there’s no point in my wife’s coming in and finding it staring her in the face. I have kept it only as an amusing sidelight on the theatre of those days.’ And, before putting it away behind the pile, Elstir, who perhaps had not set eyes on the sketch for years, gave it his careful scrutiny. ‘I must keep just the head,’ he murmured, ‘the lower part is really too shockingly bad, the hands are a beginner’s work.’ I was miserable at the arrival of Mme. Elstir, who could only delay us still further. The window sill was already aglow. Our excursion would be a pure waste of time. There was no longer the slightest chance of our seeing the girls, consequently it mattered now not at all how soon Mme. Elstir left us or how long she stayed. Not that she did stay for any length of time. I found her most tedious; she might have been beautiful, once, at twenty, driving an ox in the Roman Campagna, but her dark hair was streaked with grey and she was common without being simple, because she believed that a pompous manner and majestic attitudes were required by her statuesque beauty, which, however, advancing age had robbed of all its charm. She was dressed with the utmost simplicity. And it was touching, but at the same time surprising to hear Elstir, whenever he opened his mouth, and with a respectful gentleness, as if merely uttering the words moved him to tenderness and veneration, repeat: ‘My beautiful Gabrielle!’ Later on, when I had become familiar with Elstir’s mythological paintings, Mme. Elstir acquired beauty in my eyes also. I understood then that to a certain ideal type illustrated by certain lines, certain arabesques which reappeared incessantly throughout his work, to a certain canon of art he had attributed a character that was almost divine, since the whole of his time, all the mental effort of which he was capable, in a word his whole life he had consecrated to the task of distinguishing those lines as clearly and of reproducing them as faithfully as possible. What such an ideal inspired in Elstir was indeed a cult so solemn, so exacting that it never allowed him to be satisfied with what he had achieved; was the most intimate part of himself, and so he had never been able to look at it from a detached standpoint, to extract emotion from it, until the day on which he encountered it realised outside, apart from himself, in the body of a woman, the body of her who in due course became Mme. Elstir and in whom he had been able (as one is able only with something that is not oneself) to find it meritorious, moving, god-like. How comforting, moreover, to let his lips rest upon that Beauty which hitherto he had been obliged with so great labour to extract from ^ within himself, whereas now, mysteriously incarnate, it offered itself to him in a series of communions, filled with saving grace. Elstir at this period was no longer in that early youth in which we look only to the power of our own mind for the realisation of our ideal. He was nearing the age at which we count on bodily satisfactions to stimulate the forces of the brain, at which the exhaustion of the brain inclining us to materialism and the diminution of our activity to the possibility of influences passively received, begin to make us admit that there may indeed be certain bodies, certain callings, certain rhythms that are privileged, realising so naturally our ideal that even without genius, merely by copying the movement of a shoulder, the tension of a throat, we can achieve a masterpiece, it is the age at which we like to caress Beauty with our eyes objectively, outside ourselves, to have it near us, in a tapestry, in a lovely sketch by Titian picked up in a second-hand shop, in a mistress as lovely as Titian’s sketch. When I understood this I could no longer look without pleasure at Mme. Elstir, and her body began to lose its heaviness, for I filled it with an idea, the idea that she was an immaterial creature, a portrait by Elstir. She was one for me, and for him also I dare say. The facts of life have no meaning for the artist, they are to him merely an opportunity for exposing the naked blaze of his genius. One feels unmistakably, when one sees side by side ten portraits of different people painted by Elstir, that they are all, first and foremost, Elstirs. Only, after this rising tide of genius, which sweeps over and submerges a man’s life, when the brain begins to tire, gradually the balance is upset and, like a river that resumes its course after the counter-flow of a spring tide, it is life that once more takes the upper hand. While the first period lasted, the artist has gradually evolved the law, the formula of his unconscious gift. He knows what situations, should he be a novelist—if a painter, what scenes—furnish him with the subject matter, which may be anything in the world but, whatever it is, is essential to his researches as a laboratory might be of a workshop. He knows that he has created his masterpieces out of effects of attenuated light, the action of remorse upon consciousness of guilt, out of women posed beneath trees or half-immersed in water, like statues. A day will come when, owing to the exhaustion of his brain, he will no longer have the strength, when provided with those materials which his genius was wont to use, to make the intellectual effort which alone can produce his work, and will yet continue to seek them out, happy when he finds himself in their presence, because of the spiritual pleasure, the allurement to work that they arouse in him; and, surrounding them besides with a kind of hedge of superstition as if they were superior to all things else, as if in them already dwelt a great part of the work of art which they might be said to carry within them ready made, he will confine himself to the company, to the adoration of his models. He will hold endless conversations with the repentant criminals whose remorse, whose regeneration formed, when he still wrote, the subject of his novels; he will buy a country house in a district where mists attenuate the light, he will spend long hours gazing at the limbs of bathing women; will collect sumptuous stuffs. And thus the beauty of life, a phase that has to some extent lost its meaning, a stage beyond the boundaries of art at which I had already seen Swann come to rest, was that also which, by a slackening of the creative ardour, idolatry of the forms which had inspired it, desire to avoid effort, must ultimately arrest an Elstir’s progress.
我在房间里来回踱步，迫不及待地想让他完成他正在做的事情。我拿起并检查了各种草图，其中任意数量的草图都堆放在墙上。通过这种方式，我碰巧发现了一种水彩画，它显然属于埃尔斯蒂尔生活中更早的时期，并给了我一种特殊的魅力，这种魅力通过艺术作品扩散开来，不仅是疯狂地执行，而且代表了一个如此独特的主题它们是如此诱人，以至于我们将它们的魅力很大程度上归因于它，就好像这种魅力是画家只需揭示、观察、自然地以物质形式实现的东西，并在艺术中再现一样。这些物体的存在，与画家对它们的解释无关，它们的美丽，满足了我们内在的一种与生俱来的唯物主义，我们的理性与之抗衡，并充当美学抽象的平衡者。这是——这幅水彩画——一位年轻女子的肖像，她一点也不漂亮，但性格很奇怪，戴着一顶贴身的黑帮帽子，与“公鸡”帽子很像，镶着一条樱桃丝带——彩色丝绸；她一只戴着手套的手里拿着一支点燃的香烟，另一只手拿着一顶与膝盖齐平的宽边花园帽，只不过是用稻草编成的防火屏障，用来遮挡阳光。她旁边的桌子上有一个高花瓶，里面装满了粉色康乃馨。 通常（这里就是这种情况）此类作品的独特性主要是由于它们是在特殊条件下完成的，而我们乍一看并没有对此给予适当的考虑，例如，如果女性模特的奇怪服装是她在化装舞会上的服装，或者相反，一位老人看起来像是为了迎合画家的某些突发奇想而穿上的猩红色斗篷，是他作为教授或市议员或红衣主教的长袍。现在我面前的肖像人物的暧昧性格，在我不理解的情况下，是因为她是上一代的年轻女演员，半着装。但是帽子或帽子，下面的头发伸出来，但被剪短了，白色衬衫前襟上没有翻领的天鹅绒外套，让我对衣服的年代和模特的性别犹豫不决，所以我我不知道我眼前所呈现的到底是什么，除非只是这些画片中最亮的颜色。它给我带来的快乐只是因为担心埃尔斯蒂尔再拖延，会让我想念女孩们，因为太阳现在正在落山，低垂在小窗户里。这幅水彩画中的任何内容都只是作为事实陈述并绘制的，因为它对构图、服装（因为年轻女子必须穿着什么东西）、花瓶（用来盛花）的实用性。 花瓶的玻璃，因为它本身而被珍视，似乎盛着水，康乃馨的茎浸在像它本身一样清澈的东西中；但它看起来像水一样。女人的衣着以一种独立的、兄弟般的魅力包围着她，而且，如果男人的作品可以在魅力上与自然奇观相媲美，那么精致，那么令人赏心悦目，就像刚画过的一样。猫的毛皮、花的花瓣、鸽子的羽毛。衬衫前襟洁白如倾盆大雨，绚丽的褶皱像铃兰一样聚集成小铃铛，在房间里明亮的光线的映照下，边缘锋利，阴影细腻，仿佛它们是在房间里照出来的。编织的草坪上缝制着一束束鲜花。那件天鹅绒外套，闪闪发光，泛着乳白色的光泽，表面上到处都是粗糙的、划痕的、毛茸茸的东西，让人想起花瓶里皱巴巴的康乃馨。但最重要的是，人们认为埃尔斯蒂尔对这位年轻女演员的伪装中可能存在的任何不道德暗示都极其漠不关心，对她来说，她在舞台上扮演角色的天赋无疑不如她所表现出的令人恼火的吸引力重要。相反，她把那些模棱两可的观点作为一种值得突出的美学元素，而他已尽一切努力来强调这一点。 沿着脸部的线条，潜在的性别似乎正要承认自己是一个有点男孩气的女孩，然后消失了，然后又重新出现，暗示着一个女性化的年轻人，恶毒而沉思，然后逃走了一次更多的是保持无法捕获。她眼神中的梦幻般的悲伤，与属于做爱和演戏世界的装饰品形成鲜明对比，这并不是画面中最令人不安的元素。此外，人们还认为这一定是假装的，穿着这件挑衅服装的年轻人似乎准备好接受爱抚，他可能认为用这种浪漫的表达一种秘密的渴望和一种不言而喻的悲伤来增强挑衅是有效的。图片底部刻着“圣礼小姐：1872 年 10 月”。我无法抑制自己的钦佩之情。 ‘哦，没什么，只是我年轻时画的一个草图而已；这是综艺节目的服装。 “那模特现在怎么样了？”我的话引起了埃尔斯蒂尔的困惑，片刻之后，他的脸上就露出了冷漠、心不在焉的神情。 “快，把它给我！”他喊道，“我听到埃尔斯蒂尔夫人来了，尽管我向你保证，那个戴公鸡帽的年轻人从未在我的生活中扮演过任何角色，但我的生活仍然毫无意义。”妻子进来后发现它正盯​​着她的脸。我保留它只是为了作为当时剧院的一个有趣的旁白。”在把它收起来之前，埃尔斯蒂尔（他可能已经很多年没有看过这幅草图了）仔细地检查了它。 “我必须只保留头部，”他低声说道，“下半部分实在是太糟糕了，手是初学者的工作。” 埃尔斯蒂尔只能进一步拖延我们的时间。窗台已经泛着红光。我们的旅行纯粹是浪费时间。我们再也没有机会见到姑娘们了，因此，现在，多快发生已经不重要了。埃尔斯蒂尔离开了我们，或者她呆了多久。并不是说她确实停留了很长时间。我发现她最乏味；曾经，二十岁时，她在罗马平原上赶牛，也许很漂亮，但她的黑发中夹杂着灰白，她平凡而不简单，因为她认为，她的雕像需要一种浮夸的举止和威严的态度。美丽，然而，随着年龄的增长，它失去了所有的魅力。她的穿着极其简单。令人感动，但同时令人惊讶的是，每当埃尔斯蒂尔张开嘴时，他都会带着恭敬的温柔，仿佛仅仅说出这些话就让他感到温柔和崇敬，重复说：“我美丽的加布里埃尔！”后来，当我熟悉埃尔斯蒂尔的神话画作时，Mme.埃尔斯蒂尔在我眼中也获得了美丽。那时我明白，他把一种近乎神圣的性格归因于他作品中不断出现的某些线条、某些阿拉伯式花纹所描绘的某种理想类型，以及某种艺术经典，因为他一生中、所有的精神努力都赋予了一种近乎神圣的性格。他有能力做到这一点，总之，他一生都致力于尽可能清晰地区分这些线条并尽可能忠实地再现它们的任务。 这样的理想在埃尔斯蒂尔激发的确实是一种如此庄严、如此严格的崇拜，以至于他永远不会对自己所取得的成就感到满意；是他自己最亲密的部分，所以他一直无法从超然的角度来看待它，从中汲取情感，直到他遇到它的那一天，在除了他自己之外，在一个身体之外的地方意识到了它。女人，她的身体，在适当的时候成为了夫人。在埃尔斯蒂尔身上，他能够（就像一个人只能对非自己的东西一样）发现它是值得的、感人的、神圣的。而且，让他的嘴唇停留在美的身上是多么令人欣慰，迄今为止，他不得不付出如此巨大的努力从自己内心提取美，而现在，它神秘地化身，在一系列的交流中将自己提供给他，充满了拯救。优雅。这个时期的埃尔斯蒂尔已经不再是那种只依靠自己的思想力量来实现理想的青年时代了。他正接近我们依赖身体满足来刺激大脑力量的年龄，在这个年龄，大脑的疲惫使我们倾向于唯物主义，而我们的活动减少了被动接受影响的可能性，开始让我们承认确实可能有某些身体、某些职业、某些节奏是有特权的，如此自然地实现我们的理想，即使没有天才，仅仅通过模仿肩膀的运动、喉咙的张力，我们也能实现杰作，它是在这个年纪，我们喜欢用我们的眼睛客观地、在我们自己之外去爱抚美，让它在我们身边，在挂毯上，在提香在二手店买来的一幅可爱的素描中，在像提香素描一样可爱的情妇身上。 当我明白这一点时，我再也无法不高兴地看着夫人。埃尔斯蒂尔，她的身体开始失去重量，因为我充满了一个想法，她是一个非物质生物的想法，埃尔斯蒂尔的肖像。她对我来说就是其中之一，我敢说对他来说也是如此。生活中的事实对艺术家来说没有任何意义，对他来说只是一个暴露才华的机会。当人们并排看到埃尔斯蒂尔绘制的十幅不同人物的肖像时，人们会毫无疑问地感觉到，他们首先都是埃尔斯蒂尔人。只是，当天才的浪潮席卷并淹没了人的一生之后，当大脑开始疲倦时，平衡就会逐渐被打破，就像春潮逆流后恢复原状的河流一样，是生命再次占据了上风。在第一阶段持续的同时，艺术家逐渐发展出他无意识天赋的法则和公式。他知道在什么情况下，如果他是一名小说家——如果是画家，什么场景——为他提供了主题，这些主题可能是世界上的任何东西，但无论是什么，对他的研究都是至关重要的，因为实验室可能是一个实验室。作坊。他知道，他的杰作是基于减弱的光线的影响，基于内疚意识的悔恨行为，基于像雕像一样摆在树下或半浸在水中的女人。 总有一天，由于他的大脑疲惫不堪，当他获得了他的天才惯用的那些材料时，他将不再有力量去进行智力上的努力，而这种智力上的努力只能完成他的作品，而且还继续寻找他们，当他发现自己在他们面前时，他很高兴，因为他们在他身上引起了精神上的愉悦和工作的诱惑；而且，他还用一种迷信的围墙将它们包围起来，好像它们比其他一切都优越，好像它们里面已经住着很大一部分艺术品，可以说它们是现成的，他将把他自己限制在公司里，限制在对他的模特的崇拜上。他将与那些悔悟的罪犯进行无休止的对话，当他还在写作时，他们的悔恨和重生就构成了他小说的主题；他会在雾气减弱的地区买一栋乡间别墅，他会花很长时间凝视洗澡妇女的四肢；会收集华丽的东西。因此，生命之美，这个在某种程度上已经失去意义的阶段，一个超越艺术界限的阶段，我已经看到斯旺在这个阶段休息了，但由于创作热情的减弱，偶像崇拜也成为了生命之美。在激发它的形式中，避免努力的愿望最终必定会阻止埃尔斯蒂尔的进步。

At last he had applied the final brush-stroke to his flowers; I sacrificed a minute to look at them; I acquired no merit by the act, for I knew that there was no chance now of our finding the girls on the beach; and yet, had I believed them to be still there, and that these wasted moments would make me miss them, I should have stopped to look none the less, for I should have told myself that Elstir was more interested in his flowers than in my meeting with the girls. My grandmother’s nature, a nature that was the exact counterpart of my complete egoism, was nevertheless reflected in certain aspects of my own. In circumstances in which someone to whom I was indifferent, for whom I had always made a show of affection or respect, ran the risk merely of some unpleasantness whereas I was in real danger, I could not have done otherwise than commiserate with him on his annoyance as though it had been something important, and treat my own danger as nothing, because I would feel that these were the proportions in which he must see things. To be quite accurate, I would go even further, and not only not complain of the danger in which I myself stood but go half-way to meet it, and with that which involved other people try, on the contrary, were I to increase the risk of my being caught myself, to avert it from them. The reasons for this are several, none of which does me the slightest credit. One is that if, while only my reason was employed, I have always believed in self-preservation, whenever in the course of my existence I have found myself obsessed by moral anxieties, or merely by nervous scruples, so puerile often that I dare not enumerate them here, if an unforeseen circumstance then arose, involving for me the risk of being killed, this new preoccupation was so trivial in comparison with the others that I welcomed it with a sense of relief, almost of hilarity. Thus I find myself, albeit the least courageous of men, to have known that feeling which has always seemed to me, in my reasoning moods, so foreign to my nature, so inconceivable, the intoxication of danger. But even although I were, when any, even a deadly peril threatened me, passing through an entirely calm and happy phase, I could not, were I with another person, refrain from sheltering him behind me and choosing for myself the post of danger. When a sufficient store of experience had taught me that I invariably acted, and enjoyed acting, thus, I discovered—and was deeply ashamed by the discovery—that it was because, in contradiction of what I had always believed and asserted, I was extremely sensitive to the opinions of others. Not that this kind of unconfessed self-esteem is in any sense vanity or conceit. For what might satisfy one or other of those failings would give me no pleasure, and I have always refrained from indulging them. But with the people in whose company I have succeeded in concealing most effectively the slight advantages a knowledge of which might have given them a less derogatory idea of myself, I have never been able to deny myself the pleasure of shewing them that I take more trouble to avert the risk of death from their path than from my own. As my motive is then self-esteem and not valour, I find it quite natural that in any crisis they should act differently. I am far from blaming them for it, as I should perhaps if I had been moved by a sense of duty, a duty which would seem to me, in that case, to be as incumbent upon them as upon myself. On the contrary, I feel that it is eminently sensible of them to safeguard their lives, though at the same time I cannot prevent my own safety from receding into the background, which is particularly silly and culpable of me since I have come to realise that the lives of many of the people in front of whom I plant myself when a bomb bursts are more valueless even than my own. However, on the day of this first visit to Elstir, the time was still distant at which I was to become conscious of this difference in value, and there was no question of danger, but simply—a harbinger this of that pernicious self-esteem—the question of my not appearing to attach to the pleasure which I so ardently desired more importance than to the work which the painter had still to finish. It was finished at last. And, once we were out of doors, I discovered that—so long were the days still at this season—it was not so late as I had supposed; we strolled down to the ‘front.’ What stratagems I employed to keep Elstir standing at the spot where I thought that the girls might still come past. Pointing to the cliffs that towered beside us, I kept on asking him to tell me about them, so as to make him forget the time and stay there a little longer. I felt that we had a better chance of waylaying the little band if we moved towards the end of the beach. ‘I should like to look at those cliffs with you from a little nearer,’ I said to him, having noticed that one of the girls was in the habit of going in that direction. ‘And as we go, do tell me about Carquethuit. I should so like to see Carquethuit,’ I went on, without thinking that the so novel character which manifested itself with such force m Elstir’s Carquethuit Harbour, might belong perhaps rather to the painter’s vision than to any special quality in the place itself. ‘Since I’ve seen your picture, I think that is where I should most like to go, there and to the Pointe du Raz, but of course that would be quite a journey from here.’ ‘Yes, and besides, even if it weren’t nearer, I should advise you perhaps all the same to visit Carquethuit,’ he replied. ‘The Pointe du Raz is magnificent, but after all it is simply the high cliff of Normandy or Brittany which you know already. Carquethuit is quite different, with those rocks bursting from a level shore. I know nothing in France like it, it reminds me rather of what one sees in some parts of Florida. It is most interesting, and for that matter extremely wild too. It is between Clitourps and Nehomme; you know how desolate those parts are; the sweep of the coast-line is delicious. Here, the coast-line is like anywhere else; but along there I can’t tell you what charm it has, what softness.’
最后，他给花朵做了最后的一笔。我牺牲了一分钟时间来观察它们；我的行为并没有获得任何好处，因为我知道现在我们没有机会在海滩上找到女孩们了。然而，如果我相信它们还在那里，相信这些浪费的时光会让我想念它们，我仍然会停下来看看，因为我应该告诉自己，埃尔斯蒂尔对他的花比对我的花更感兴趣。与女孩们见面。我祖母的本性，与我完全的利己主义完全对应，但也反映在我自己的某些方面。当我对某个人漠不关心、我一直表现出喜爱或尊重的时候，他只是冒着一些不愉快的风险，而我却处于真正的危险之中，我除了对他的遭遇表示同情之外别无他法。烦恼就好像这是一件重要的事情一样，而把我自己的危险视为无足轻重，因为我会觉得这些就是他看待事物的比例。准确地说，我会走得更远，不仅不会抱怨我自己所面临的危险，而且会半途而废地迎接它，而对于涉及其他人的尝试，相反，如果我增加我自己被抓的风险，以避免他们。造成这种情况的原因有很多，但其中没有一个对我有丝毫的功劳。 一是，如果我在只运用理性的情况下始终相信自我保护，那么在我的存在过程中，每当我发现自己被道德焦虑所困扰，或者仅仅是被神经质的顾忌所困扰时，我常常如此幼稚，以至于我不敢在这里列举一下，如果出现不可预见的情况，对我来说有被杀的危险，这种新的关注与其他关注相比是如此微不足道，以至于我以一种如释重负、几乎是欢闹的感觉欢迎它。因此，我发现自己，尽管是最没有勇气的人，却知道那种在我推理的情绪中一直对我来说似乎与我的本性如此陌生、如此不可思议的感觉，即危险的陶醉。但是，即使当我面临任何致命的危险时，我正在经历一个完全平静和快乐的阶段，但如果我和另一个人在一起，我就无法克制住他在我身后的庇护，并为自己选择了危险的岗位。当足够的经验告诉我，我总是在演戏，并且喜欢演戏时，我发现——并且为这个发现深感羞愧——这是因为，与我一直相信和断言的相矛盾，我极端地对他人的意见很敏感。并不是说这种不承认的自尊在任何意义上都是虚荣或自负。因为那些能够满足这些缺点中的一种或另一种的东西不会给我带来任何快乐，而且我总是避免沉迷于它们。但是，对于那些与我在一起的人，我成功地最有效地隐藏了一些微小的优势，这些优势可能会让他们对我的看法不那么贬低，我从来都无法否认自己向他们展示我付出了更多的努力的快乐。避免他们的死亡风险，而不是我自己的死亡风险。 由于我的动机是自尊而不是勇气，所以我发现在任何危机中他们应该采取不同的行动是很自然的。我绝不会因此而责怪他们，如果我是出于一种责任感的话，我也许会责怪他们，在这种情况下，在我看来，这种责任对他们和我自己来说都是义不容辞的责任。相反，我觉得他们保护自己的生命是非常明智的，但同时我又无法阻止自己的安全退到幕后，这对我来说尤其愚蠢和应受谴责，因为我已经意识到当炸弹爆炸时，我把自己安置在许多人面前，他们的生命甚至比我自己的生命更无价值。然而，在第一次访问埃尔斯蒂尔的那天，距离我意识到这种价值差异的时间还很遥远，而且不存在危险的问题，而只是——这是有害的自尊心的预兆。 ——问题是我似乎并不重视我如此热切渴望的快乐，而不是画家尚未完成的作品。终于完成了。当我们走出家门时，我发现——这个季节的日子还这么长——时间并没有我想象的那么晚；我们漫步到“前线”。我用了什么策略让埃尔斯蒂尔站在我认为女孩们可能仍然会过去的地方。我指着旁边高耸的悬崖，不断地让他给我讲讲，让他忘记时间，多呆一会儿。我觉得如果我们向海滩的尽头移动，我们就有更好的机会伏击这支小乐队。 “我想和你一起从近一点的地方看看那些悬崖，”我对他说，因为我注意到其中一个女孩习惯朝那个方向走。 “我们走的时候，请告诉我关于卡克修特的事。”我很想看看卡克图伊特，”我继续说道，但没有想到，在埃尔斯蒂尔的卡克图伊特港如此强烈地表现出来的如此新颖的特征，可能更多地属于画家的视野，而不是这个地方本身的任何特殊品质。 “自从我看过你的照片后，我想那是我最想去的地方，那里和拉兹角，但当然，从这里出发将是一段相当长的旅程。”“是的，而且，即使距离并不近，但我还是建议你去参观卡克修特，”他回答道。 “拉兹角很壮丽，但它毕竟只是你已经知道的诺曼底或布列塔尼的高悬崖。 Carquethuit 则完全不同，那些岩石从平坦的海岸上迸发出来。我在法国不知道有什么像这样的，它让我想起了在佛罗里达州某些地方看到的东西。这是最有趣的，而且也非常狂野。它位于克利图普和内霍姆之间；你知道那些地方是多么荒凉；绵延的海岸线令人愉悦。这里的海岸线和其他地方一样；但在那里我无法告诉你它有什么魅力，有什么柔软。’

Night was falling; it was time to be turning homewards; I was escorting Elstir in the direction of his villa when suddenly, as it were Mephistopheles springing up before Faust, there appeared at the end of the avenue—like simply an objectification, unreal, diabolical, of the temperament diametrically opposed to my own, of the semi-barbarous and cruel vitality of which I, in my weakness, my excess of tortured sensibility and intellectuality was so destitute—a few spots of the essence impossible to mistake for anything else in the world, a few spores of the zoophytic band of girls, who wore an air of not having seen me but were unquestionably, for all that, proceeding as they advanced to pass judgment on me in their ironic vein. Feeling that a collision between them and us was now inevitable, and that Elstir would be certain to call me, I turned my back, like a bather preparing to meet the shock of a wave; I stopped dead and, leaving my eminent companion to pursue his way, remained where I was, stooping, as if I had suddenly become engrossed in it, towards the window of the curiosity shop which we happened to be passing at the moment. I was not sorry to give the appearance of being able to think of something other than these girls, and I was already dimly aware that when Elstir did call me up to introduce me to them I should wear that sort of challenging expression which betokens not surprise but the wish to appear as though one were surprised—so far is every one of us a bad actor, or everyone else a good thought-reader;—that I should even go so far as to point a finger to my breast, as who should ask ‘It is me, really, that you want?’ and then run to join him, my head lowered in compliance and docility and my face coldly masking my annoyance at being torn from the study of old pottery in order to be introduced to people whom I had no wish to know. Meanwhile I explored the window and waited for the moment in which my name, shouted by Elstir, would come to strike me like an expected and innocuous bullet. The certainty of being introduced to these girls had had the result of making me not only feign complete indifference to them, but actually to feel it. Inevitable from this point, the pleasure of knowing them began at once to shrink, became less to me than the pleasure of talking to Saint-Loup, of dining with my grandmother, of making, in the neighbourhood of Balbec, excursions which I would regret the probability, in consequence of my having to associate with people who could scarcely be much interested in old buildings, of my being forced to abandon. Moreover, what diminished the pleasure which I was about to feel was not merely the imminence but the incoherence of its realisation. Laws as precise as those of hydrostatics maintain the relative position of the images which we form in a fixed order, which the coming event at once upsets. Elstir was just about to call me. This was not at all the fashion in which I had so often, on the beach, in my bedroom, imagined myself making these girls’ acquaintance. What was about to happen was a different event, for which I was not prepared. I recognised neither my desire nor its object; I regretted almost that I had come out with Elstir. But, above all, the shrinking of the pleasure that I expected to feel was due to the certainty that nothing, now, could take that pleasure from me. And it resumed, as though by some latent elasticity in itself, its whole extent when it ceased to be subjected to the pressure of that certainty, at the moment when, having decided to turn my head, I saw Elstir, standing where he had stopped a few feet away with the girls, bidding them good-bye. The face of the girl who stood nearest to him, round and plump and glittering with the light in her eyes, reminded me of a cake on the top of which a place has been kept for a morsel of blue sky. Her eyes, even when fixed on an object, gave one the impression of motion, just as on days of high wind the air, although invisible, lets us perceive the speed with which it courses between us and the unchanging azure. For a moment her gaze intersected mine, like those travelling skies on stormy days which hurry after a rain-cloud that moves less rapidly than they, overtake, touch, cover, pass it and are gone; but they do not know one another, and are soon driven far apart. So our eyes were for a moment confronted, neither pair knowing what the celestial continent that lay before their gaze held of future blessing or disaster. Only at the moment when her gaze was directly coincident with mine, without slackening its movement it grew perceptibly duller. So on a starry night the wind-swept moon passes behind a cloud and veils her brightness for a moment, but soon will shine again. But Elstir had already said goodbye to the girls, and had never summoned me. They disappeared down a cross street; he came towards me. My whole plan was spoiled.
夜幕降临了；是时候该打道回府了；我正护送埃尔斯蒂尔朝他的别墅方向走去，突然，大道的尽头出现了一个人，就像梅菲斯特在浮士德面前跳出来一样——就像一种客观化的东西，不真实，恶魔般，与我的气质截然相反，半野蛮和残酷的生命力，在我的软弱中，我过度折磨的感性和理智是如此匮乏——本质上的一些点不可能被误认为是世界上的任何其他东西，是动物植物带的一些孢子女孩们看上去好像没有看到我，但毫无疑问，她们走上前来，用讽刺的语气对我作出评判。我感觉到他们和我们之间的碰撞现在是不可避免的，埃尔斯蒂尔一定会打电话给我，我转过身去，就像一个沐浴者准备迎接海浪的冲击；我停了下来，留下我杰出的同伴追赶他的路，我留在原地，弯下腰，仿佛突然全神贯注地走向我们此刻碰巧经过的古玩店的窗户。我并不为自己表现得能想到这些女孩以外的事情而感到遗憾，而且我已经隐约意识到，当埃尔斯蒂尔打电话给我把我介绍给她们时，我应该表现出那种具有挑战性的表情，这并不意味着惊讶但我希望表现得让人感到惊讶——到目前为止，我们每个人都是一个糟糕的演员，或者其他人都是一个善于读心术的人；——我什至应该用一根手指指着我的胸口，因为谁应该问‘你真的想要我吗？”然后跑去加入他，我低着头，表现出顺从和温顺，我的脸冷冷地掩饰着我的烦恼，因为我被从旧陶器的研究中拉出来，以便被介绍给那些我不想认识的人。与此同时，我探索着窗户，等待着埃尔斯蒂尔喊出我的名字的那一刻，我的名字会像一颗预期的、无害的子弹一样袭击我。被介绍给这些女孩的必然结果使我不仅假装对她们完全漠不关心，而且实际上也感受到了这一点。不可避免的是，从这一点开始，认识他们的乐趣立刻开始减少，对我来说，不如与圣卢交谈、与祖母一起吃饭、在巴尔贝克附近进行我会后悔的短途旅行的乐趣由于我不得不与那些对旧建筑不太感兴趣的人交往，我被迫放弃的可能性。此外，削弱我即将感受到的快乐的不仅是迫在眉睫的事情，而且是实现过程中的不连贯性。像流体静力学一样精确的定律维持着我们以固定顺序形成的图像的相对位置，而即将发生的事件会立即扰乱这种位置。埃尔斯蒂尔正要给我打电话。这根本不是我经常在海滩上、在我的卧室里想象自己结识这些女孩的时尚。即将发生的是另一件不同的事情，我对此没有做好准备。我既不认识自己的欲望，也不认识它的目标；我几乎后悔和埃尔斯蒂尔在一起了。但最重要的是，我期望感受到的快乐的减少是因为我确信现在没有任何东西可以从我身上夺走这种快乐。 当它不再受到那种确定性的压力时，它就恢复了，仿佛通过其本身的某种潜在的弹性，在当我决定转过头时，我看到了埃尔斯蒂尔，站在他停下来的地方。与女孩们相隔几英尺，向她们告别。离他最近的那个女孩的脸，圆圆的，丰满的，眼睛里闪烁着光芒，让我想起一块蛋糕，上面留着一片蓝天。她的眼睛，即使注视着一个物体，也会给人一种运动的印象，就像在大风的日子里，空气虽然看不见，却让我们感知到它在我们和不变的蔚蓝之间流动的速度。有那么一会儿，她的目光与我的目光相交，就像暴风雨天里行进的天空，追赶着移动速度慢于它们的雨云，追上、触及、覆盖、越过它，然后就消失了。但他们互不相识，很快就疏远了。于是，我们的目光一时对峙，谁也不知道眼前的这片仙界大陆，预示着未来的福祸。只是当她的目光与我直接重合的那一刻，她的动作却没有减弱，明显变得更加黯淡了。因此，在一个繁星点点的夜晚，风吹过的月亮穿过云层，暂时遮住了她的光辉，但很快就会再次发光。但埃尔斯蒂尔已经和女孩们告别了，并没有召唤过我。他们消失在十字路口。他向我走来。我的整个计划都泡汤了。

I have said that Albertine had not seemed to me that day to be the same as on previous days and that afterwards, each time I saw her, she was to appear different. But I felt at that moment that certain modifications in the appearance, the importance, the stature of a person may also be due to the variability of certain states of consciousness interposed between that person and us. One of those that play an important part in such transformations is belief; that evening my belief, then the vanishing of my belief, that I was about to know Albertine had, with a few seconds’ interval only, rendered her almost insignificant, then infinitely precious in my sight; some years later, the belief, then the disappearance of the belief, that Albertine was faithful to me brought about similar changes.
我说过，那天我觉得阿尔贝蒂娜与前几天不一样了，从那以后，我每次见到她，她都会显得不一样。但在那一刻我感到，一个人的外表、重要性、身材的某些改变也可能是由于那个人与我们之间的某些意识状态的可变性所致。在这种转变中发挥重要作用的因素之一就是信念。那天晚上，我的信念，即我即将认识阿尔贝蒂娜的信念消失了，仅仅几秒钟的时间间隔，就使她在我眼中变得几乎无足轻重，然后又变得无限珍贵。几年后，阿尔贝蒂娜对我忠诚的信念，然后信念的消失，也带来了类似的变化。

Of course, long ago, at Combfay, I had seen shrink or stretch, according to the time of day, according as I was entering one or the other of the two dominant moods that governed my sensibility in turn, my grief at not having my mother with me, as imperceptible all afternoon as is the moon’s light when the sun is shining, and then, when night had come, reigning alone in my anxious heart in the place of recent memories now obliterated. But on that day at Balbec, when I saw that Elstir was leaving the girls and had not called me, I learned for the first time that the variations in the importance which a pleasure or a pain has in our eyes may depend not merely on this alternation of two moods, but on the displacement of invisible beliefs, such, for example, as make death seem to us of no account because they bathe it in a glow of unreality, and thus enable us to attach importance to our attending an evening party, which would lose much of its charm for if, on the announcement that we were sentenced to die by the guillotine, the belief that had bathed the party in its warm glow was instantly shattered; and this part that belief plays, it is true that something in me was aware of it; this was my will; but its knowledge is vain if the mind, the heart continue in ignorance; these last act in good faith when they believe that we are anxious to forsake a mistress to whom our will alone knows that we are still attached. This is because they are clouded by the belief that we shall see her again at any moment. But let this belief be shattered, let them suddenly become aware that this mistress is gone from us for ever, then the mind and heart, having lost their focus, are driven like mad things, the meanest pleasure becomes infinitely great.
当然，很久以前，在康姆费，我见过收缩或伸展，根据一天中的时间，根据我进入轮流控制我的感受的两种主要情绪中的一种或另一种，我因没有我的能力而感到悲伤。整个下午，母亲和我在一起，就像阳光明媚时的月光一样难以察觉，然后，当夜幕降临时，它独自统治着我焦虑的心，取代了最近已被抹去的记忆。但在巴尔贝克的那天，当我看到埃尔斯蒂尔离开了女孩们并且没有给我打电话时，我第一次了解到，快乐或痛苦在我们眼中的重要性的变化可能不仅仅取决于这个两种情绪的交替，但取决于无形信念的取代，例如，死亡对我们来说似乎无关紧要，因为它们沐浴在不真实的光芒中，从而使我们能够重视参加晚会如果我们被判处断头台死刑的消息一出，让党沐浴在温暖光芒中的信仰立即被粉碎，那么它就会失去很多魅力；信仰所扮演的这个角色，确实我内心的某些东西意识到了这一点。这是我的意愿；但如果头脑、心灵继续处于无知之中，那么它的知识就是徒劳的；当他们相信我们急于抛弃仅凭我们的意志知道我们仍然依恋的情妇时，这些最后的行为是真诚的。这是因为他们相信我们随时都会再次见到她。但是，如果这个信念被打破，让他们突然意识到这个情妇已经永远离开了我们，那么头脑和心灵就失去了焦点，像疯狂的东西一样被驱使，最卑鄙的快乐变得无限伟大。

Variance of a belief, annulment also of love, which, pre-existent and mobile, comes to rest at the image of any one woman simply because that woman will be almost impossible of attainment. Thenceforward we think not so much of the woman of whom we find difficult in forming an exact picture, as of the means of getting to know her. A whole series of agonies develops and is sufficient to fix our love definitely upon her who is its almost unknown object. Our love becomes immense; we never dream how small a place in it the real woman occupies. And if suddenly, as at the moment when I had seen Elstir stop to talk to the girls, we cease to be uneasy, to suffer pain, since it is this pain that is the whole of our love, it seems to us as though love had abruptly vanished at the moment when at length we grasp the prey to whose value we had not given enough thought before. What did I know of Albertine? One or two glimpses of a profile against the sea, less beautiful, assuredly, than those of Veronese’s women whom I ought, had I been guided by purely aesthetic reasons, to have preferred to her. By what other reasons could I be guided, since, my anxiety having subsided, I could recapture only those mute profiles; I possessed nothing of her besides. Since my first sight of Albertine I had meditated upon her daily, a thousandfold, I had carried on with what I called by her name an interminable unspoken dialogue in which I made her question me, answer me, think and act, and in the infinite series of imaginary Albertines who followed one after the other in my fancy, hour after hour, the real Albertine, a glimpse caught on the beach, figured only at the head, just as the actress who creates a part, the star, appears, out of a long series of performances, in the few first alone. That Albertine was scarcely more than a silhouette, all that was superimposed being of my own growth, so far when we are in love does the contribution that we ourself make outweigh—even if we consider quantity only—those that come to us from the beloved object. And the same is true of love that is given its full effect. There are loves that manage not only to be formed but to subsist around a very little core—even among those whose prayer has been answered after the flesh. An old drawing-master who had taught my grandmother had been presented by some obscure mistress with a daughter. The mother died shortly after the birth of her child, and the drawing-master was so broken-hearted that he did not long survive her. In the last months of his life my grandmother and some of the Combray ladies, who had never liked to make any allusion in the drawing-master’s presence to the woman, with whom, for that matter, he had not officially ‘lived’ and had had comparatively slight relations, took it into their heads to ensure the little girl’s future by combining to purchase an annuity for her. It was my grandmother who suggested this; several of her friends made difficulties; after all was the child really such a very interesting case, was she even the child of her reputed father; with women like that, it was never safe to say. Finally, everything was settled. The child came to thank the ladies. She was plain, and so absurdly like the old drawing-master as to remove every shadow of doubt; her hair being the only nice thing about her, one of the ladies said to her father, who had come with her: ‘What pretty hair she has.’ And thinking that now, the woman who had sinned being dead and the old man only half alive, a discreet allusion to that past of which they had always pretended to know nothing could do no harm, my grandmother added: ‘It runs in families. Did her mother have pretty hair like that?’ ‘I don’t know,’ was the old man’s quaint answer. ‘I never saw her except with a hat on.’
信仰的变异，爱情的废除，这种爱是预先存在的、流动的，最终停留在任何一个女人的形象上，仅仅是因为那个女人几乎是不可能实现的。从那时起，我们不再关心那个很难形成准确形象的女人，而是想到了解她的方法。一连串的痛苦逐渐展开，足以使我们的爱明确地集中在她身上，而她却是我们几乎不知道的对象。我们的爱变得无边无际；我们做梦也想不到真正的女人在其中占据的位置有多么小。如果突然之间，就像我看到埃尔斯蒂尔停下来和女孩们说话的那一刻一样，我们就不再感到不安，不再遭受痛苦，因为这种痛苦就是我们爱的全部，对我们来说，这似乎就是爱当我们最终抓住了我们之前没有充分考虑过其价值的猎物时，它突然消失了。我对阿尔贝蒂娜了解多少？一两次瞥见大海的侧影，肯定不如委罗内塞笔下的女人美丽，如果我出于纯粹的审美原因，我应该更喜欢她。既然我的焦虑消退了，我只能重新捕捉到那些无声的轮廓；还有什么其他原因可以引导我呢？除此之外，我对她一无所有。自从我第一次见到阿尔贝蒂娜以来，我每天都对她进行千百次的思考，我用我所谓的她的名字进行着一场无休无止的无声对话，在对话中我让她提问我，回答我，思考和行动，并在无限的世界中。一系列想象中的阿尔贝蒂娜，在我的想象中一个接一个地跟随，一小时又一小时，真正的阿尔贝蒂娜，在海滩上瞥见的一瞥，只出现在头部，就像创造一个角色的女演员，明星，出现一样，一系列长长的表演中，只有少数几个是第一个。 阿尔贝蒂娜只不过是一个剪影，所有的一切都是我自己成长的叠加，到目前为止，当我们相爱时，我们自己所做的贡献是否超过了——即使我们只考虑数量——那些来自心爱的人给我们的贡献。目的。对于充分发挥作用的爱来说也是如此。有些爱不仅能够形成，而且能够围绕一个很小的核心而存在——即使是在那些肉体的祈祷得到回应的人之中。一位曾教过我祖母的老绘画大师被某个不起眼的情妇带了一个女儿。孩子出生后不久，母亲就去世了，绘画大师伤心欲绝，没能活多久。在他生命的最后几个月里，我的祖母和贡布雷的一些女士们从来不喜欢在绘画大师面前对那个女人做出任何暗示，就此而言，他并没有正式与她“生活”过，也没有和她正式“生活”过。关系比较淡的几位亲戚，就想联合起来给小女孩购买一份年金，以保证她的未来。这是我祖母提出的。她的几个朋友给她带来了麻烦；毕竟这个孩子真的是一个非常有趣的案例，她甚至是她名声在外的父亲的孩子吗？对于这样的女人，说起来从来都不安全。终于，一切都尘埃落定了。孩子过来向女士们道谢。她相貌平平，与那位老绘画大师极其相似，足以消除一切疑虑。一位女士对和她一起来的父亲说：“她的头发是她身上唯一漂亮的地方，”她的头发多漂亮啊。” 想到现在，那个犯了罪的女人已经死了，而那个老人已经半死不活，这是对他们一直假装一无所知的过去的谨慎暗示，这不会造成任何伤害，我的祖母补充道：“它在家庭中流传。她妈妈的头发也这么漂亮吗？”“我不知道。”老人古怪地回答道。 “我从来没有见过她，除了戴着帽子。’

But I must not keep Elstir waiting. I caught sight of myself in a glass. To add to the disaster of my not having been introduced to the girls, I noticed that my necktie was all crooked, my hat left long wisps of hair shewing, which did not become me; but it was a piece of luck, all the same, that they should have seen me, even thus attired, in Elstir’s company and so could not forget me; also that I should have put on, that morning, at my grandmother’s suggestion, my smart waistcoat, when I might so easily have been wearing one that was simply hideous, and be carrying my best stick. For while an event for which we are longing never happens quite in the way we have been expecting, failing the advantages on which we supposed that we might count, others present themselves for which we never hoped, and make up for our disappointment; and we have been so dreading the worst that in the end we are inclined to feel that, taking one thing with another, chance has, on the whole, been rather kind to us.
但我不能让埃尔斯蒂尔久等。我在镜子里看到了自己。雪上加霜的是，我没有被介绍给女孩们，我发现我的领带全都歪了，帽子上露出了长长的一缕头发，这与我格格不入；不过，尽管如此，他们还是能看到我在埃尔斯蒂尔的陪伴下，即使是这样打扮，也算是一种幸运，所以他们不会忘记我。另外，那天早上，我应该按照祖母的建议，穿上我的漂亮背心，而我本来可以很容易地穿着一件丑陋的背心，并带着我最好的手杖。因为，虽然我们所渴望的事件从未以我们所期待的方式发生，没有带来我们认为可以指望的优势，但其他事件却出现了我们从未希望过的情况，并弥补了我们的失望；因为，我们所期待的事情永远不会以我们期待的方式发生，没有带来我们认为可以指望的优势，而其他事件却出现了我们从未希望过的事情，并弥补了我们的失望。我们一直如此害怕最坏的情况，以至于最终我们倾向于觉得，把一件事与另一件事放在一起，总的来说，机会对我们相当友善。

‘I did so much want to know them,’ I said as I reached Elstir. ‘Then why did you stand a mile away?’ These were his actual words, not that they expressed what was in his mind, since, if his desire had been to grant mine, to call me up to him would have been quite easy, but perhaps because he had heard phrases of this sort, in familiar use among common people when they are in the wrong, and because even great men are in certain respects much the same as common people, take their everyday excuses from the same common stock just as they get their daily bread from the same baker; or it may be that such expressions (which ought, one might almost say, to be read ‘backwards,’ since their literal interpretation is the opposite of the truth) are the instantaneous effect, the negative exposure of a reflex action. ‘They were in a hurry.’ It struck me that of course they must have stopped him from summoning a person who did not greatly attract them; otherwise he would not have failed, after all the questions that I had put to him about them, and the interest which he must have seen that I took in them, to call me. ‘We were speaking just now of Carquethuit,’ he began, as we walked towards his villa. ‘I have done a little sketch, in which you can see much better how the beach curves. The painting is not bad, but it is different. If you will allow me, just to cement our friendship, I would like to give you the sketch,’ he went on, for the people who refuse us the objects of our desire are always ready to offer us something else.
“我非常想了解他们，”到达埃尔斯蒂尔时我说道。 “那你为什么站在一英里之外呢？”这是他的原话，并不是表达了他的想法，因为如果他的愿望满足了我的愿望，那么叫我到他身边就很容易了，但也许是因为他听过这类短语，这些短语是普通人犯错时常用的，而且因为即使是伟人在某些方面也与普通人大同小异，所以他们的日常借口只是从同一个普通股中得到的。因为他们每天的面包都是从同一个面包师那里得到的；或者，这些表达（人们几乎可以说，应该“倒过来”读，因为它们的字面解释与事实相反）可能是瞬时效果，是反射动作的负面暴露。 “他们很着急。”我突然意识到，他们当然阻止了他召唤一个对他们没有多大吸引力的人；但他却没有这么做。否则，在我向他提出了所有关于这些问题的问题之后，他一定也看到了我对这些问题的兴趣，所以才打电话给我。 “我们刚才正在谈论卡奎特，”当我们走向他的别墅时，他开始说道。 “我画了一个小草图，你可以在其中更好地看到海滩的曲线。画得还不错，但就是不一样。如果你允许的话，为了巩固我们的友谊，我想给你一张草图，”他继续说道，因为那些拒绝我们渴望的对象的人总是准备好为我们提供其他东西。

‘I should very much like, if you have such a thing, a photograph of the little picture of Miss Sacripant. ‘Sacripant’—that’s not a real name, surely?’ ‘It is the name of a character the sitter played in a stupid little musical comedy.’ ‘But, I assure you, sir, I have never set eyes on her; you look as though you thought that I knew her.’ Elstir was silent. ‘It isn’t Mme. Swann, before she was married?’ I hazarded, in one of those sudden fortuitous stumblings upon the truth, which are rare enough in all conscience, and yet give, in the long run, a certain cumulative support to the theory of presentiments, provided that one takes care to forget all the wrong guesses that would invalidate it. Elstir did not reply. The portrait was indeed that of Odette de Crécy. She had preferred not to keep it for many reasons, some of them obvious. But there were others less apparent. The portrait dated from before the point at which Odette, disciplining her features, had made of her face and figure that creation the broad outlines of which her hairdressers, her dressmakers, she herself—in her way of standing, of speaking, of smiling, of moving her hands, her eyes, of thinking—were to respect throughout the years to come. It required the vitiated tastes of a surfeited lover to make Swann prefer to all the countless photographs of the ‘sealed pattern’ Odette which was his charming wife the little photographs which he kept in his room and in which, beneath a straw hat trimmed with pansies, you saw a thin young woman, not even good-looking, with bunched-out hair and drawn features.
“如果你有这样的东西，我非常喜欢一张萨克里潘特小姐的小照片。 “圣衣”——这肯定不是真名吧？” “这是一部愚蠢的小音乐喜剧中保姆扮演的一个角色的名字。” “但是，我向你保证，先生，我从来没有见过她；我从来没有见过她。 “你看起来好像以为我认识她。”埃尔斯蒂尔沉默了。 “这不是夫人。”斯旺，在她结婚之前？”我冒险，在一次突然偶然的偶然发现真相的过程中，这在良心上是非常罕见的，但从长远来看，给预感理论提供了一定的累积支持，前提是人们要小心忘记所有可能导致其无效的错误猜测。埃尔斯蒂尔没有回答。这幅肖像确实是奥黛特·德·克雷西的肖像。她不想保留它的原因有很多，其中一些是显而易见的。但还有其他一些不太明显的情况。这幅肖像画的拍摄时间是在奥黛特对她的容貌进行训练之前，她的脸和身材创造了她的理发师、裁缝和她自己的粗略轮廓——以她站立、说话、微笑的方式，她的双手、她的眼睛、她的思考——在未来的岁月里都值得尊重。斯旺需要一个饱受摧残的情人的败坏品味，才能让斯旺更喜欢所有无数“密封图案”奥黛特的照片，奥黛特是他迷人的妻子，他在房间里保存着小照片，照片中戴着一顶镶着三色堇的草帽。 ，你看到一个瘦削的年轻女子，长得也不好看，头发盘成一团，五官憔悴。

But apart from this, had the portrait been not anterior like Swann’s favourite photograph, to the systématisation of Odette’s features in a fresh type, majestic and charming, but subsequent to it, Elstir’s vision would alone have sufficed to disorganise that type. Artistic genius in its reactions is like those extremely high temperatures which have the power to disintegrate combinations of atoms which they proceed to combine afresh in a diametrically opposite order, following another type. All that artificially harmonious whole into which a woman has succeeded in bringing her limbs and features, the persistence of which every day, before going out, she studies in her glass, changing the angle of her hat, smoothing her hair, exercising the sprightliness in her eyes, so as to ensure its continuity, that harmony the keen eye of the great painter instantly destroys, substituting for it a rearrangement of the woman’s features such as will satisfy a certain pictorial ideal of femininity which he carries in his head. Similarly it often happens that, after a certain age, the eye of a great seeker after truth will find everywhere the elements necessary to establish those relations which alone are of interest to him. Like those craftsmen, those players who, instead of making a fuss and asking for what they cannot have, content themselves with the instrument that comes to their hand, the artist might say of anything, no matter what, that it would serve his purpose. Thus a cousin of the Princesse de Luxembourg, a beauty of the most queenly type, having succumbed to a form of art which was new at that time, had asked the leading painter of the naturalist school to do her portrait. At once the artist’s eye had found what he sought everywhere in life. And on his canvas there appeared, in place of the proud lady, a street-boy, and behind him a vast, sloping, purple background which made one think of the Place Pigalle. But even without going so far as that, not only will the portrait of a woman by a great artist not seek in the least to give satisfaction to various demands on the woman’s part—such as for instance, when she begins to age, make her have herself photographed in dresses that are almost those of a young girl, which bring out her still youthful figure and make her appear like the sister, or even the daughter of her own daughter, who, if need be, is tricked out for the occasion as a ‘perfect fright’ by her side—it will, on the contrary, emphasise those very drawbacks which she seeks to hide, and which (as for instance a feverish, that is to say a livid complexion) are all the more tempting to him since they give his picture ‘character’; they are quite enough, however, to destroy all the illusions of the ordinary man who, when he sees the picture, sees crumble into dust the ideal which the woman herself has so proudly sustained for him, which has placed her in her unique, her unalterable form so far apart, so far above the rest of humanity. Fallen now, represented otherwise than in her own type in which she sat unassailably enthroned, she is become nothing more than just an ordinary woman, in the legend of whose superiority we have lost all faith. In this type we are so accustomed to regard as included not only the beauty of an Odette but her personality, her identity, that standing before the portrait which has thus transposed her from it we are inclined to protest not simply ‘How plain he has made her!’ but ‘Why, it isn’t the least bit like her!’ We find it hard to believe that it can be she. We do not recognise her. And yet there is a person there on the canvas whom we are quite conscious of having seen before. But that person is not Odette; the face of the person, her body, her general appearance seem familiar. They recall to us not this particular woman who never held herself like that, whose natural pose had no suggestion of any such strange and teasing arabesque in its outlines, but other women, all the women whom Elstir has ever painted, women whom invariably, however they may differ from one another, he has chosen to plant thus on his canvas facing you, with an arched foot thrust out from under the skirt, a large round hat in one hand, symmetrically corresponding at the level of the knee which it hides to what also appears as a disc, higher up in the picture: the face. And furthermore, not only does a portrait by the hand of genius disintegrate and destroy a woman’s type, as it has been denned by her coquetry and her selfish conception of beauty, but if it is also old, it is not content with ageing the original in the same way as a photograph ages its sitter, by shewing her dressed in the fashions of long ago. In a portrait, it is not only the manner the woman then had of dressing that dates it, there is also the manner the artist had of painting. And this, Elstir’s earliest manner, was the most damaging of birth certificates for Odette because it not only established her, as did her photographs of the same period, as the younger sister of various time-honoured courtesans, but made her portrait contemporary with the countless portraits that Manet or Whistler had painted of all those vanished models, models who already belonged to oblivion or to history.
但除此之外，如果这幅肖像不是像斯旺最喜欢的照片那样，以一种新鲜的方式系统化奥黛特的五官，雄伟而迷人，但在此之后，仅埃尔斯蒂尔的视觉就足以瓦解这种类型。艺术天才的反应就像那些极高的温度，它有能力分解原子的组合，然后它们继续以完全相反的顺序重新组合，遵循另一种类型。女人成功地把自己的四肢和五官融入到了这个人为的和谐整体中，每天出门前，她都会对着镜子研究，改变帽子的角度，抚平头发，锻炼出活泼的气质。伟大画家敏锐的目光立即破坏了这种和谐，取而代之的是对女人特征的重新排列，以满足他头脑中某种女性气质的绘画理想。同样，在一定年龄之后，一位伟大的真理探索者的眼睛会发现到处都有建立他所感兴趣的关系所必需的要素。就像那些工匠，那些演奏者，他们不会大惊小怪，要求他们不能拥有的东西，而是满足于他们手中的乐器，艺术家可能会说任何事情，无论是什么，这都会达到他的目的。因此，卢森堡公主的一位堂兄，一位最具女王气质的美人，屈服于当时新兴的艺术形式，请自然主义流派的顶尖画家为她画肖像。艺术家的眼睛立刻就发现了他在生活中到处寻找的东西。 在他的画布上，出现了一个街头男孩，代替了那位骄傲的女士，在他身后是一个巨大的、倾斜的、紫色的背景，让人想起皮加勒广场。但即使不走得这么远，一位伟大的艺术家对女性的肖像不仅不会寻求满足女性的各种要求——例如，当她开始衰老时，她自己穿着几乎是一个年轻女孩的衣服拍照，这衬托出她仍然年轻的身材，让她看起来像姐姐，甚至是她自己女儿的女儿，如果需要的话，她会为这个场合精心打扮。作为她身边的“完美恐惧”——相反，它会强调她试图隐藏的那些缺点，而这些缺点（例如发烧，也就是说脸色铁青）更容易被忽视。他因为他们赋予了他的照片“性格”；然而，它们足以摧毁普通男人的所有幻想，当他看到这幅画时，他看到女人自己为他自豪地坚持的理想化为尘埃，这使她处于她独特的、她的地位。不可改变的形式如此遥远，如此远远高于人类其他部分。现在她堕落了，与她毫无争议地坐在王位上的她自己的类型不同，她只不过是一个普通的女人，我们对她的优越性的传说已经失去了所有的信心。在这种类型中，我们习惯于认为不仅包括奥黛特的美丽，还包括她的个性、她的身份，以至于站在将她从肖像中移出来的肖像前，我们倾向于抗议，而不仅仅是“他说得多么简单”。她！”但是“为什么，它一点也不像她！”我们很难相信这就是她。 我们不认识她。然而画布上有一个我们很清楚以前见过的人。但那个人不是奥黛特；而是奥黛特。这个人的脸，她的身体，她的外貌都似曾相识。他们让我们想起的不是这个特定的女人，她从来没有那样表现过自己，她的自然姿势在轮廓中没有任何这种奇怪和戏弄的阿拉伯式花纹的暗示，而是其他女人，埃尔斯蒂尔曾经画过的所有女人，她们总是，然而，它们可能彼此不同，他选择在面对你的画布上这样种植，一只弓形脚从裙子下伸出，一手拿着一顶大圆帽，对称地对应于它隐藏的膝盖水平。图中上方也显示为圆盘的东西：脸。此外，天才之手的肖像不仅会瓦解和破坏一个女人的形象，因为它被她的卖弄风情和自私的美感所定义，而且如果它也变老了，它也不满足于使原来的变老。就像照片让拍摄者变老一样，照片中的人穿着很久以前的时尚衣服。在一幅肖像画中，不仅有当时女人的着装方式，还有艺术家的绘画方式。埃尔斯蒂尔最早的做法对奥黛特来说是出生证明中最具破坏性的，因为这不仅使她和她同时期的照片一样，成为各种历史悠久的交际花的妹妹，而且使她的肖像与当代的马奈或惠斯勒为那些消失的模特画了无数肖像，这些模特已经属于遗忘或历史。

It was along this train of thought, meditated in silence by the side of Elstir as I accompanied him to his door, that I was being led by the discovery that I had just made of the identity of his model, when this original discovery caused me to make a second, more disturbing still, involving the identity of the artist. He had painted the portrait of Odette de Crécy. Could it possibly be that this man of genius, this sage, this eremite, this philosopher with his marvellous flow of conversation, who towered over everyone and everything, was the foolish, corrupt little painter who had at one time been ‘taken up’ by the Verdurins? I asked him if he had known them, whether by any chance it was he that they used to call M. Biche. He answered me in the affirmative, with no trace of embarrassment, as if my question referred to a period in his life that was ended and already somewhat remote, with no suspicion of what a cherished illusion his words were shattering in me, until looking up he read my disappointment upon my face. His own assumed an expression of annoyance. And, as we were now almost at the gate of his house, a man of less outstanding eminence, in heart and brain, might simply have said ‘good-bye’ to me, a trifle dryly, and taken care to avoid seeing me again. This however was not Elstir’s way with me; like the master that he was—and this was, perhaps, from the point of view of sheer creative genius, his one fault, that he was a master in that sense of the word, for an artist if he is to live the true life of the spirit in its full extent, must be alone and not bestow himself with profusion, even upon disciples—from every circumstance, whether involving himself or other people, he sought to extract, for the better edification of the young, the element of truth that it contained. He chose therefore, rather than say anything that might have avenged the injury to his pride, to say what he thought would prove instructive to me. ‘There is no man,’ he began, ‘however wise, who has not at some period of his youth said things, or lived in a way the consciousness of which is so unpleasant to him in later life that he would gladly, if he could, expunge it from his memory. And yet he ought not entirely to regret it, because he cannot be certain that he has indeed become a wise man—so far as it is possible for any of us to be wise—unless he has passed through all the fatuous or unwholesome incarnations by which that ultimate stage must be preceded. I know that there are young fellows, the sons and grandsons of famous men, whose masters have instilled into them nobility of mind and moral refinement in their schooldays. They have, perhaps, when they look back upon their past lives, nothing to retract; they can, if they choose, publish a signed account of everything they have ever said or done; but they are poor creatures, feeble descendants of doctrinaires, and their wisdom is negative and sterile. We are not provided with wisdom, we must discover it for ourselves, after a journey through the wilderness which no one else can take for us, an effort which no one can spare us, for our wisdom is the point of view from which we come at last to regard the world. The lives that you admire, the attitudes that seem noble to you are not the result of training at home, by a father, or by masters at school, they have sprung from beginnings of a very different order, by reaction from the influence of everything evil or commonplace that prevailed round about them. They represent a struggle and a victory. I can see that the picture of what we once were, in early youth, may not be recognisable and cannot, certainly, be pleasing to contemplate in later life. But we must not deny the truth of it, for it is evidence that we have really lived, that it is in accordance with the laws of life and of the mind that we have, from the common elements of life, of the life of studios, of artistic groups—assuming that one is a painter—extracted something that goes beyond them.’ Meanwhile we had reached his door. I was disappointed at not having met the girls. But after all there was now the possibility of meeting them again later on; they had ceased to do no more than pass beyond a horizon on which I had been ready to suppose that I should never see them reappear. Around them no longer swirled that sort of great eddy which had separated me from them, which had been merely the expression of the perpetually active desire, mobile, compelling, fed ever on fresh anxieties, which was aroused in me by their inaccessibility, their flight from me, possibly for ever. My desire for them, I could now set it at rest, hold it in reserve, among all those other desires the realisation of which, as soon as I knew it to be possible, I would cheerfully postpone. I took leave of Elstir; I was alone once again. Then all of a sudden, despite my recent disappointment, I saw in my mind’s eye all that chain of coincidence which I had not supposed could possibly come about, that Elstir should be a friend of those very girls, that they who only that morning had been to me merely figures in a picture with the sea for background had seen me, had seen me walking in friendly intimacy with a great painter, who was now informed of my secret longing and would no doubt do what he could to assuage it. All this had been a source of pleasure to me, but that pleasure had remained hidden; it was one of those visitors who wait before letting us know that they are in the room until all the rest have gone and we are by ourselves. Then only do we catch sight of them, and can say to them, ‘I am at your service,’ and listen to what they have to tell us. Sometimes between the moment at which these pleasures have entered our consciousness and the moment at which we are free to entertain them, so many hours have passed, we have in the interval seen so many people that we are afraid lest they should have grown tired of waiting. But they are patient, they do not grow tired, and as soon as the crowd has gone we find them there ready for us. Sometimes it is then we who are so exhausted that it seems as though our weary mind will not have the strength left to seize and retain those memories, those impressions for which our frail self is the one habitable place, the sole means of realisation. And we should regret that failure, for existence to us is hardly interesting save on the days on which the dust of realities is shot with magic sand, on which some trivial incident of life becomes a spring of romance. Then a whole promontory of the inaccessible world rises clear in the light of our dream, and enters into our life, our life in which, like the sleeper awakened, we actually see the people of whom we have been so ardently dreaming that we came to believe that we should never behold them save in our dreams.
正是沿着这条思路，当我陪埃尔斯蒂尔到他家门口时，我在他身边默默地沉思着，我被我刚刚对他的模型的身份的发现所引导，当这个最初的发现引起了我的注意时制造第二个更令人不安的问题，涉及艺术家的身份。他画了奥黛特·德·克雷西的肖像。难道这个天才、这个圣人、这个隐士、这个能说会道、高高在上、凌驾于一切之上的哲学家，就是那个曾经被某个人“占据”的愚蠢、腐败的小画家吗？维尔迪兰家族？我问他是否认识他们，他们是否曾经称呼他为“比什先生”。他给了我肯定的回答，没有一丝尴尬，仿佛我的问题指的是他生命中已经结束、已经有些遥远的一段时期，毫不怀疑他的话粉碎了我心中的一个珍贵的幻想，直到抬起头他从我脸上读出了我的失望。他自己也露出了恼怒的表情。而且，当我们现在快到他家门口时，一个在心灵和头脑上不那么杰出的人可能会简单地对我说“再见”，有点干巴巴的，并小心翼翼地避免再次见到我。 然而，这不是埃尔斯蒂尔对待我的方式。就像他所是的大师一样——也许，从纯粹的创造性天才的角度来看，他唯一的错误是，对于一个艺术家来说，如果他要过真正的生活，那么他就是这个词意义上的大师。精神的充分发挥，必须是孤独的，而不是赋予自己丰富的东西，即使是在门徒身上——他从各种情况下，无论涉及他自己还是其他人，都试图提取真理的元素，以便更好地教育年轻人。它所包含的。因此，他选择说一些他认为对我有启发的话，而不是说任何可能对他的自尊心造成的伤害进行报复的话。他开始说道：“无论多么聪明，没有一个人在年轻时说过一些话，或者没有过一种让他在晚年生活中感到不愉快的生活方式，如果他愿意的话，他会很高兴地这样做。”可以，将其从他的记忆中删除。然而他不应该完全后悔，因为他不能确定自己确实成为了一个智者——就我们任何一个人可能变得智者而言——除非他已经通过了所有愚蠢或不善的转世。必须先于最终阶段。我知道有一些年轻人，他们是名人的子孙，他们的老师在他们学生时代就向他们灌输了高尚的思想和高尚的道德品质。也许，当他们回顾过去的生活时，没有什么可收回的；如果他们选择的话，他们可以发布他们曾经说过或做过的一切的签名记录；但他们是可怜的生物，是教条主义者的软弱后代，他们的智慧是消极的、贫乏的。 我们没有被赋予智慧，我们必须自己发现它，经过一段无人能替我们承担的荒野之旅，无人能免除我们的努力，因为我们的智慧是我们来自的观点终于可以正视世界了。你所欣赏的生活，你认为高尚的态度，并不是家庭、父亲或学校老师训练的结果，它们是从一个完全不同的秩序开始的，是一切事物影响的反应。他们周围盛行的邪恶或司空见惯的事情。他们代表着斗争和胜利。我可以看到，我们年轻时的样子可能已经无法辨认，而且在以后的生活中肯定也无法令人愉快地思考。但我们不能否认它的真实性，因为它证明我们确实生活过，它符合生活和心灵的法则，来自生活的共同元素，工作室生活的共同元素。 ”，艺术团体——假设一个人是画家——提取出超越他们的东西。”与此同时，我们已经到了他的门口。我对没有见到女孩们感到失望。但毕竟现在有可能稍后再次见到他们；他们不再做任何事，只不过超出了我原本以为我永远不会看到他们再次出现的地平线。在他们周围，不再有那种将我与他们分开的巨大漩涡，这只是永远活跃的欲望的表达，流动的，引人注目的，永远以新的焦虑为食，这种焦虑是由他们的不可接近、他们的逃亡在我身上引起的。来自我，可能永远。 我对它们的渴望，现在我可以把它搁置起来，保留下来，在所有其他愿望中，一旦我知道它是可能的，我就会高兴地推迟实现这些愿望。我向埃尔斯蒂尔告别；我再次孤身一人。然后突然间，尽管我最近感到失望，但我在脑海中看到了所有我没想到会发生的巧合，埃尔斯蒂尔应该是那些女孩的朋友，她们只是那天早上才认识的。对我来说，只是以大海为背景的画中的人物见过我，见过我与一位伟大的画家友好而亲密地散步，他现在知道了我秘密的渴望，毫无疑问会尽他所能来缓解它。所有这一切都曾是我快乐的源泉，但那种快乐一直被隐藏着。其中一位访客在让我们知道他们在房间里之前等待，直到所有其他人都走了，只剩下我们自己了。只有这样我们才能看到他们，并对他们说：“我随时为您服务”，并聆听他们告诉我们的内容。有时，从这些快乐进入我们的意识的那一刻到我们可以自由地享受它们的那一刻，已经过去了很多个小时，我们在这段时间里看到了很多人，我们担心他们会厌倦。等待。但他们很有耐心，不会感到疲倦，人群一散去，我们就发现他们已经准备好了。有时，正是我们如此疲惫不堪，以至于我们疲倦的心灵似乎没有力气去抓住和保留那些记忆和印象，而我们脆弱的自我是这些记忆和印象的唯一栖息地，是实现的唯一手段。 我们应该为这次失败感到遗憾，因为除了那些现实的尘埃被魔沙喷射的日子，生活中的一些琐碎事件变成浪漫的泉水的日子之外，我们的存在几乎没有什么意义。然后，难以到达的世界的整个海角在我们的梦想之光中清晰地升起，进入我们的生活，在我们的生活中，就像睡梦中醒来的人一样，我们实际上看到了那些我们一直热切梦想着的人，以至于我们来到了我们的生活中。相信我们永远不应该在梦中看到它们。

The sense of comfort that I drew from the probability of my now being able to meet the little band whenever I chose was all the more precious to me because I should not have been able to keep watch for them during the next few days, which would be taken up with preparations for Saint-Loup’s departure. My grandmother was anxious to offer my friend some proof of her gratitude for all the kindnesses that he had shewn to her and myself. I told her that he was a great admirer of Proudhon, and this put it into her head to send for a collection of autograph letters by that philosopher which she had once bought; Saint-Loup came to her room to look at them on the day of their arrival, which was also his last day at Balbec. He read them eagerly, fingering each page with reverence, trying to get the sentences by heart; and then, rising from the table, was beginning to apologise to my grandmother for having stayed so long, when he heard her say: ‘No, no; take them with you; they are for you to keep; that was why I sent for them, to give them to you.’
我从现在无论何时都可以见到这支小乐队的可能性中获得的安慰对我来说更加珍贵，因为我不应该在接下来的几天里一直监视他们，这会着手为圣卢的离开做准备。我的祖母急于向我的朋友提供一些证据，以表达她对他对她和我自己所表现出的所有善意的感激之情。我告诉她，他是蒲鲁东的崇拜者，这让她想到要寄去她曾经买过的这位哲学家的亲笔信集。圣卢在他们抵达的那天来到她的房间看望他们，这也是他在巴尔贝克的最后一天。他如饥似渴地读着，怀着崇敬的心情用手指敲击着每一页，试图把句子牢记在心。然后，他从餐桌上站起来，正要为自己待了这么久而向祖母道歉，这时他听到她说：“不，不；”随身携带它们；它们是由你保管的；这就是为什么我派人去找他们，把它们交给你。

He was overpowered by a joy which he could no more control than we can a physical condition that arises without the intervention of our will. He blushed scarlet as a child who has just been whipped, and my grandmother was a great deal more touched to see all the efforts that he was making (without success) to control the joy that convulsed him than she would have been to hear any words of thanks that he could have uttered. But he, fearing that he had failed to shew his gratitude properly, begged me to make his excuses to her again, next day, leaning from the window of the little train of the local railway company which was to take him back to his regiment. The distance was, as a matter of fact, nothing. He had thought of going, as he had frequently done that summer, when he was to return the same evening and was not encumbered with luggage, by road. But this time he would have had, anyhow, to put all his heavy luggage in the train. And he found it simpler to take the train himself also, following the advice of the manager who, on being consulted, replied that ‘Carriage or train, it was more or less equivocal.’ He meant us to understand that they were equivalent (in fact, very much what Françoise would have expressed as ‘coming to as near as made no difference’). ‘Very well,’ Saint-Loup had decided, ‘I will take the ‘little crawler.’’ I should have taken it too, had I not been tired, and gone with my friend to Doncières; failing this I kept on promising, all the time that we waited in the Balbec station—the time, that is to say, which the driver of the little train spent in waiting for unpunctual friends, without whom he refused to start, and also in seeking some refreshment for himself—to go over there and see him several times a week. As Bloch had come to the station also—much to Saint-Loup’s disgust—the latter, seeing that our companion could hear him begging me to come to luncheon, to dinner, to stay altogether at Doncières, finally turned to him and, in the most forbidding tone, intended to counteract the forced civility of the invitation and to prevent Bloch from taking it seriously: ‘If you ever happen to be passing through Doncières any afternoon when I am off duty, you might ask for me at the barracks; but I hardly ever am off duty.’ Perhaps, also, Robert feared lest, if left to myself, I might not come, and, thinking that I was more intimate with Bloch than I made out, was providing me in this way with a travelling companion, one who would urge me on.
他被一种喜悦所压倒，这种喜悦他无法控制，就像我们无法控制一种不受我们意志干预而产生的身体状况一样。他像个刚刚被鞭打的孩子一样脸红了，而我的祖母看到他为控制他抽搐的喜悦而做出的所有努力（但没有成功）比听到任何话语都要感动得多他本可以说出的感谢。但他担心自己没有恰当地表达谢意，第二天，他在当地铁路公司的小火车上，靠着车窗把他送回部队，再次恳求我向她道歉。事实上，距离根本不算什么。他曾想过走公路，就像那年夏天他经常做的那样，当天晚上他就可以回来，而且没有行李，走公路。但无论如何，这一次他必须把所有沉重的行李都放在火车上。他发现自己乘坐火车也更简单，听从了经理的建议，经理在咨询后回答说“马车或火车，或多或少是模棱两可的。”他想让我们明白它们是等价的（在事实上，这与弗朗索瓦丝所说的“尽可能接近没有什么区别”）非常相似。 “很好，”圣卢决定，“我要带那条‘小爬行者’。”要不是我累了，我也应该带上它，并和我的朋友一起去了东西埃尔。如果做不到这一点，我一直在承诺，我们在巴尔贝克车站等待的所有时间——也就是说，小火车的司机花在等待不准时的朋友上的时间，没有他们，他拒绝出发，而且在为自己找点休息——每周去那里看他几次。 由于布洛赫也来到了车站——这让圣卢很厌恶——后者看到我们的同伴能听到他恳求我来吃午饭、吃晚饭、留在东西埃尔，最后转向他，在他用最令人生畏的语气，旨在抵消邀请中强迫的礼貌，并防止布洛赫认真对待它：“如果我下班的任何下午你碰巧路过东西埃尔，你可以到军营找我​​；但如果你碰巧在我下班的时候路过东西埃，你可以到军营找我​​。”但我几乎从来不下班。”也许，罗伯特还担心，如果让我自己来，我可能不会来，并且认为我与布洛赫比我表现的更亲密，因此以这种方式为我提供了一个机会。旅伴，一个会催促我继续前行的人。

I was afraid that this tone, this way of inviting a person while warning him not to come, might have wounded Bloch, and felt that Saint-Loup would have done better, saying nothing. But I was mistaken, for after the train had gone, while we were walking back together as far as the crossroads at which we should have to part, one road going to the hotel, the other to the Blochs’ villa, he never ceased from asking me on what day we should go to Doncières, for after ‘all the civilities that Saint-Loup had shewn’ him, it would be ‘too unmannerly’ on his part not to accept the invitation. I was glad that he had not noticed, or was so little displeased as to wish to let it be thought that he had not noticed on how far from pressing, how barely polite a note the invitation had been sounded. At the same time I should have liked Bloch, for his own sake, to refrain from making a fool of himself by going over at once to Doncières. But I dared not offer a piece of advice which could only have offended him by hinting that Saint-Loup had been less pressing than himself impressed. He was a great deal too ready to respond, and even if all his faults of this nature were atoned for by remarkable qualities which others, with more reserve than he, would not possess, he carried indiscretion to a pitch that was almost maddening. The week must not, to hear him speak, pass without our going to Doncières (he said ‘our’ for I think that he counted to some extent on my presence there as an excuse for his own). All the way home, opposite the gymnasium, in its grove of trees, opposite the lawn-tennis courts, the mayor’s office, the shell-fish stall, he stopped me, imploring me to fix a day, and, as I did not, left me in a towering rage, saying: ‘As your lordship pleases. For my part, I’m obliged to go since he has invited me.’
我担心这种语气，这种邀请一个人同时警告他不要来的方式可能会伤害布洛赫，我觉得圣卢最好什么也不说。但我错了，火车开走后，当我们一起走回本应分开的十字路口时，一条路通向旅馆，另一条路通向布洛赫别墅，他却从未停止过脚步。他问我哪一天我们应该去东西埃尔，因为在“圣卢向他表示了所有的礼貌”之后，如果他不接受邀请，那就“太不礼貌了”。我很高兴他没有注意到，或者有点不高兴，以至于希望人们认为他没有注意到邀请的声音是多么的紧迫，多么的不礼貌。同时，我希望布洛赫不要立即去找东西埃，以免出洋相。但我不敢提出任何建议，否则只会冒犯他，因为我暗示圣卢并不像他印象中的那样紧迫。他太容易做出回应了，即使他所有的这种性质的错误都被其他比他更矜持的人所不具备的卓越品质所弥补，他的轻率行为却达到了几乎令人发狂的程度。为了听他讲话，我们这一周一定不能不去东西埃（他说“我们的”，因为我认为他在某种程度上指望我在那里作为他自己的借口）。一路回家，在体育馆对面的树林里，在草地网球场、市长办公室、贝类摊对面，他拦住了我，恳求我安排一天，但我没有，让我勃然大怒，说道：‘如阁下所愿。 就我而言，既然他邀请了我，我就不得不去。’

Saint-Loup was still so much afraid of not having thanked my grandmother properly that he charged me once again to express his gratitude to her a day or two later in a letter I received from him from the town in which he was quartered, a town which seemed, on the envelope where the post-mark had stamped its name, to be hastening to me across country, to tell me that within its walls, in the Louis XVI cavalry barracks, he was thinking of me. The paper was embossed with the arms of Marsantes, in which I could make out a lion, surmounted by a coronet formed by the cap of a Peer of France.
圣卢仍然非常害怕没有好好地感谢我的祖母，所以一两天后，他在我从他驻扎的小镇收到的一封信中再次嘱咐我向她表达他的感激之情。信封上的邮戳印着它的名字，它似乎正在穿越整个国家向我赶来，告诉我，在它的围墙内，在路易十六的骑兵营里，他正在想念我。纸上浮雕着马桑特斯的徽章，其中我可以辨认出一只狮子，狮子的头顶上戴着一顶由法国贵族帽子组成的王冠。

‘After a journey which,’ he wrote, ‘passed pleasantly enough, with a book I bought at the station, by Arvède Barine (a Russian author, I fancy; it seemed to me remarkably well written for a foreigner, but you shall give me your critical opinion, you are bound to know all about it, you fount of knowledge who have read everything), here I am again in the thick of this debased existence, where, alas, I feel a sad exile, not having here what I had to leave at Balbec; this life in which I cannot discover one affectionate memory, any intellectual attraction; an environment on which you would probably look with contempt—and yet it has a certain charm. Everything seems to have changed since I was last here, for in the interval one of the most important periods in my life, that from which our friendship dates, has begun. I hope that it may never come to an end. I have spoken of our friendship, of you, to one person only, to the friend I told you of, who has just paid me a surprise visit here. She would like immensely to know you, and I feel that you would get on well together, for she too is extremely literary. I, on the other hand, to go over in my mind all our talk, to live over again those hours which I never shall forget, have shut myself off from my comrades, excellent fellows, but altogether incapable of understanding that sort of thing. This remembrance of moments spent with you I should almost have preferred, on my first day here, to call up for my own solitary enjoyment, without writing. But I was afraid lest you, with your subtle mind and ultra-sensitive heart, might, if you did not hear from me, needlessly torment yourself, if, that is to say, you still condescend to occupy your thoughts with this blunt trooper whom you will have a hard task to polish and refine, and make a little more subtle and worthier of your company.’
他写道：“在一次愉快的旅行之后，我带着一本我在车站买的书，作者是阿尔韦德·巴里恩（我想是一位俄罗斯作家；在我看来，这本书对于一个外国人来说写得非常好，但是你应该给我你的批评意见，你一定知道这一切，你读过一切的知识源泉），在这里，我再次处于这种堕落存在的最深处，唉，我感到一种悲伤的流放，在这里没有什么我必须离开巴尔贝克；在这一生中，我找不到任何深情的记忆，任何理智的吸引力；一个你可能会轻蔑地看待的环境——但它却有一定的魅力。自从我上次来这里以来，一切似乎都发生了变化，因为在这段时间里，我生命中最重要的时期之一，我们的友谊开始了。我希望它永远不会结束。我只对一个人，对我告诉过你的朋友，谈到了我们的友谊，谈到了你，他刚刚突然来访过我。她非常想认识你，我觉得你们会相处得很好，因为她也非常有文学天赋。另一方面，我为了重温我们所有的谈话，重温那些我永远不会忘记的时光，把自己与我的同志们、优秀的伙伴们隔离开来，但完全无法理解这类事情。在我来这里的第一天，我几乎应该更愿意在不写作的情况下，为自己的孤独享受而纪念与你一起度过的时光。 但我担心，如果你的心思细腻，心灵极其敏感，如果你没有收到我的消息，你可能会不必要地折磨自己，也就是说，如果你仍然屈尊把你的思想占据在这个生硬的士兵身上，你将面临一项艰巨的任务来打磨和完善，让你的公司变得更加微妙和有价值。’

On the whole this letter, in its affectionate spirit, was not at all unlike those which, when I did not yet know Saint-Loup, I had imagined that he would write to me, in those daydreams from which the coldness of his first greeting had shaken me by bringing me face to face with an icy reality which was not, however, to endure. Once I had received this letter, whenever, at luncheon-time, the post was brought in, I could tell at once when it was from him that a letter came, for it had always that second face which a person assumes when he is absent, in the features of which (the characters of his script) there is no reason why we should not suppose that we are tracing an individual soul just as much as in the line of a nose or the inflexions of a voice.
总而言之，这封信，就其深情的精神而言，与我还不认识圣卢时所想象的那些信没有什么不同，在那些白日梦中，他第一次问候的冰冷。让我面对一个冰冷的现实，但我却无法忍受，这让我震惊。一旦我收到这封信，每当午餐时间，邮件被送进来时，我立刻就能看出这封信是他寄来的，因为它总是有一个人缺席时所呈现的第二张脸，在其特征（他的剧本的人物）中，我们没有理由不认为我们正在追踪一个个体的灵魂，就像在鼻子的线条或声音的音调中一样。

I would now gladly remain at the table while it was being cleared, and, if it was not a moment at which the girls of the little band might be passing, it was no longer solely towards the sea that I would turn my eyes. Since I had seen such things depicted in water-colours by Elstir, I sought to find again in reality, I cherished, as though for their poetic beauty, the broken gestures of the knives still lying across one another, the swollen convexity of a discarded napkin upon which the sun would patch a scrap of yellow velvet, the half-empty glass which thus shewed to greater advantage the noble sweep of its curved sides, and, in the heart of its translucent crystal, clear as frozen daylight, a dreg of wine, dusky but sparkling with reflected lights, the displacement of solid objects, the transmutation of liquids by the effect of light and shade, the shifting colour of the plums which passed from green to blue and from blue to golden yellow in the half-plundered dish, the chairs, like a group of old ladies, that came twice daily to take their places round the white cloth spread on the table as on an altar at which were celebrated the rites of the palate, where in the hollows of oyster-shells a few drops of lustral water had gathered as in tiny holy water stoups of stone; I tried to find beauty there where I had never imagined before that it could exist, in the most ordinary things, in the profundities of ‘still life.’
现在，在桌子被清理的时候，我很乐意留在桌子旁，而且，如果不是小乐队的女孩们可能经过的那一刻，我将不再仅仅把目光转向大海。自从我看到埃尔斯蒂尔用水彩画描绘的这些东西后，我试图在现实中再次找到，我珍惜，仿佛为了它们的诗意之美，刀子的破碎姿态仍然相互交叉，被丢弃的肿胀的凸面。阳光会在餐巾上贴上一小片黄色天鹅绒，半空的玻璃因此更能显示出其弯曲侧面的高贵扫掠，而在其半透明水晶的中心，像冰冻的日光一样清晰，有一块残渣葡萄酒，暗淡的，但在反射光的照射下闪闪发光，固体物体的位移，液体在光影作用下的变化，李子的颜色在半掠夺中从绿色变成蓝色，从蓝色变成金黄色盘子、椅子，就像一群老太太，每天来两次，在桌子上铺着的白布周围就座，就像在祭坛上举行味觉仪式一样，在牡蛎壳的空洞里几滴灵水聚集在小小的圣水石槽里。我试图在我以前从未想象过的地方寻找美，它可以存在于最普通的事物中，存在于“静物”的深刻之处。

When, some days after Saint-Loup’s departure, I had succeeded in persuading Elstir to give a small tea-party, at which I was to meet Albertine, that freshness of appearance, that smartness of attire, both (alas) fleeting, which were to be observed in me at the moment of my starting out from the Grand Hotel, and were due respectively to a longer rest than usual and to special pains over my toilet, I regretted my inability to reserve them (and also the credit accruing from Elstir’s friendship) for the captivation of some other, more interesting person; I regretted having to use them all up on the simple pleasure of making Albertine’s acquaintance. My brain assessed this pleasure at a very low value now that it was assured me. But, inside, my will did not for a moment share this illusion, that will which is the persevering and unalterable servant of our successive personalities; hiding itself in secret places, despised, downtrodden, untiringly faithful, toiling without intermission and with no thought for the variability of the self, its master, if only that master may never lack what he requires. Whereas at the moment when we are just about to start on a long-planned and eagerly awaited holiday, our brain, our nerves begin to ask themselves whether it is really worth all the trouble involved, the will, knowing that those lazy masters would at once begin to consider their journey the most wonderful experience, if it became impossible for them to take it, the will leaves them explaining their difficulties outside the station, multiplying their hesitations; but busies itself with taking the tickets and putting us into the carriage before the train starts. It is as invariable as brain and nerves are fickle, but as it is silent, gives no account of its actions, it seems almost non-existent; it is by its dogged determination that the other constituent parts of our personality are led, but without seeing it, while they distinguish clearly all their own uncertainties. My nerves and brain then started a discussion as to the real value of the pleasure that there would be in knowing Albertine, while I studied in the glass vain and perishable attractions which nerves and brain would have preserved intact for use on some other occasion. But my will would not let the hour pass at which I must start, and ‘it was Elstir’s address that it called out to the driver. Brain and nerves were at liberty, now that the die was cast, to think this ‘a pity.’ If my will had given the man a different address, they would have been finely ‘sold.’
圣卢离开几天后，当我成功说服埃尔斯蒂尔举办一个小型茶会时，我将在会上见到阿尔贝蒂娜，那种清新的外表，那种时髦的着装，（唉）转瞬即逝，在我从大酒店出发的那一刻，我就注意到了，分别是由于比平时休息的时间更长，以及上厕所时特别痛苦，我很遗憾未能预订它们（以及埃尔斯蒂尔的信用）友谊）为了吸引其他更有趣的人；我很遗憾为了结识阿尔贝蒂娜这一简单的快乐而把它们全部花光了。既然我已经确信了这种快乐，我的大脑就将这种快乐的价值评估得很低。但是，在内心深处，我的意志却一刻也没有分享这种幻觉，那种意志是我们历代人格的坚持不懈的、不可改变的仆人。隐藏在隐秘的地方，受人蔑视，受人欺压，孜孜不倦地忠诚，不间断地辛勤劳作，不考虑自我的变化，它的主人，但愿那个主人永远不会缺乏他所需要的东西。而当我们即将开始一个计划已久、期待已久的假期时，我们的大脑、我们的神经开始问自己，这是否真的值得所有的麻烦、意志，因为知道那些懒惰的主人会在一旦开始认为他们的旅程是最美妙的经历，如果他们变得不可能接受它，意志就会让他们在车站外解释他们的困难，增加他们的犹豫；但在火车开动前就忙着取票并把我们送进车厢。 它就像大脑和神经一样变化无常，但由于它是沉默的，没有考虑到它的行为，所以它看起来几乎不存在；正是由于它顽强的决心，我们人格的其他组成部分才被引导，但他们却没有看到它，而他们却清楚地区分了自己所有的不确定性。然后，我的神经和大脑开始讨论认识阿尔贝蒂娜所带来的快乐的真正价值，而我则在玻璃中研究虚荣和易腐烂的吸引力，而神经和大脑会完好无损地保存这些吸引力以供其他场合使用。但我的意志不会让我必须出发的时间过去，“它向司机喊出了埃尔斯蒂尔的地址。”既然已经板上钉钉，大脑和神经都可以自由地思考这“可惜”。如果我的遗嘱给了这个人一个不同的地址，他们就会被很好地“卖掉”。’

When I arrived at Elstir’s, a few minutes later, my first impression was that Mlle. Simonet was not in the studio. There was certainly a girl sitting there in a silk frock, bareheaded, but one whose marvellous hair, whose nose, meant nothing to me, in whom I did not recognise the human entity that I had formed out of a young cyclist strolling past, in a polo-cap, between myself and the sea. It was Albertine, nevertheless. But even when I knew it to be she, I gave her no thought. On entering any social gathering, when we are young, we lose consciousness of our old self, we become a different man, every drawing-room being a fresh universe, in which, coming under the sway of a new moral perspective, we fasten our attention, as if they were to matter to us for all time, on people, dances, card-tables, all of which we shall have forgotten by the morning. Obliged to follow, if I was to arrive at the goal of conversation with Albertine, a road in no way of my own planning, which first brought me to a halt at Elstir, passed by other groups of guests to whom I was presented, then along the table, at which I was offered, and ate, a strawberry tart or two, while I listened, motionless, to the music that was beginning in another part of the room, I found myself giving to these various incidents the same importance as to my introduction to Mlle. Simonet, an introduction which was now nothing more than one among several such incidents, having entirely forgotten that it had been, but a few minutes since, my sole object in coming there that day. But is it not ever thus in the bustle of daily life, with every true happiness, every great sorrow? In a room full of other people we receive from her whom we love the answer, propitious or fatal, which we have been awaiting for the last year. But we must go on talking, ideas come, one after another, forming a smooth surface which is pricked, at the very most, now and then by a dull throb from within of the memory, deep-rooted enough but of very slender growth, that misfortune has come upon us. If, instead of misfortune, it is happiness, it may be that not until many years have elapsed will we recall that the most important event in our sentimental life occurred without our having time to give it any prolonged attention, or even to become aware of it almost, at a social gathering, it may have been, to which we had gone solely in expectation of that event.
几分钟后，当我到达埃尔斯蒂尔时，我的第一印象是Mlle。西蒙内特不在工作室。确实有一个女孩坐在那儿，穿着丝质连衣裙，光着头，但她那美妙的头发，她的鼻子对我来说毫无意义，我不认识她，我在她身上形成了一个人的实体，这个实体是我从一个漫步经过的年轻骑自行车者身上形成的。一顶马球帽，在我和大海之间。不过，那是阿尔贝蒂娜。但即使我知道是她，我也没有想到她。当我们年轻的时候，一进入任何社交聚会，我们就失去了旧的自我的意识，我们变成了一个不同的人，每个客厅都是一个新鲜的宇宙，在其中，在新的道德观点的影响下，我们将自己的思想固定在其中。对人、舞蹈、牌桌的关注，仿佛它们对我们来说永远都很重要，所有这些到早上我们都会忘记。如果我要到达与阿尔贝蒂娜交谈的目标，我就必须沿着一条并非我自己计划的道路走，这条路首先让我在埃尔斯蒂尔停下来，经过其他一群接待我的客人，然后沿着桌子，我被提供并吃了一两个草莓馅饼，当我一动不动地听着房间另一部分开始的音乐时，我发现自己对这些不同的事件给予了同样的重视我对 Mlle 的介绍。西蒙内特，现在的介绍只不过是几起此类事件之一，完全忘记了，就在几分钟后，我那天来这里的唯一目的。但在日常生活的喧嚣中，每一次真正的幸福，每一次巨大的悲伤，不都是这样吗？在一个挤满其他人的房间里，我们从她那里收到了我们喜欢的答案，无论是吉祥的还是致命的，我们去年一直在等待这个答案。 但我们必须继续谈论，想法一个接一个地出现，形成一个光滑的表面，顶多时不时地被来自记忆内部的一种沉闷的悸动所刺痛，它根深蒂固，但生长得非常纤细，这种不幸降临到了我们身上。如果这不是不幸，而是幸福，那么，也许很多年后，我们才会想起我们情感生活中最重要的事件发生了，而我们却没有时间给予它长期的关注，甚至没有时间去意识到它。几乎是在一次社交聚会上，我们去参加聚会只是为了期待那件事。

When Elstir asked me to come with him so that he might introduce me to Albertine, who was sitting a little farther down the room, I first of all finished eating a coffee éclair and, with a show of keen interest, asked an old gentleman whose acquaintance I had just made (and thought that I might, perhaps, offer him the rose in my buttonhole which he had admired) to tell me more about the old Norman fairs. This is not to say that the introduction which followed did not give me any pleasure, nor assume a definite importance in my eyes. But so far as the pleasure was concerned, I was not conscious of it, naturally, until some time later, when, once more in the hotel, and in my room alone, I had become myself again. Pleasure in this respect is like photography. What we take, in the presence of the beloved object, is merely a negative film; we develop it later, when we are at home, and have once again found at our disposal that inner darkroom, the entrance to which is barred to us so long as we are with other people.
当埃尔斯蒂尔邀请我和他一起去，以便他可以把我介绍给坐在房间稍远一点的阿尔贝蒂娜时，我首先喝完了一杯闪电泡芙咖啡，然后表现出浓厚的兴趣，问一位老绅士，他的我刚刚结识了一位朋友（我想也许我可以把我扣眼里的那朵他很欣赏的玫瑰送给他），告诉我更多关于古老的诺曼集市的事情。这并不是说接下来的介绍没有给我带来任何乐趣，也没有在我眼中具有一定的重要性。但就乐趣而言，我自然没有意识到这一点，直到一段时间后，当我再次回到旅馆，独自在我的房间里时，我又恢复了原来的样子。在这方面的乐趣就像摄影。当我们所爱的对象在场时，我们所拍摄的只是一部底片；当我们在家时，我们会进一步开发它，并再次发现内部暗室可供我们使用，只要我们与其他人在一起，我们就无法进入该暗室。

If my consciousness of the pleasure it had brought me was thus retarded by a few hours, the importance of this introduction I felt immediately. At such moments of introduction, for all that we feel ourselves to have been suddenly enriched, to have been furnished with a pass that will admit us henceforward to pleasures which we have been pursuing for weeks past, but in vain, we realise only too clearly that this acquisition puts an end for us not merely to hours of toilsome search—a relief that could only fill us with joy—but also to the very existence of a certain person, her whom our imagination had wildly distorted, our anxious fear that we might never become known to her enlarged. At the moment when our name sounds on the lips of the person introducing us, especially if he amplifies it, as Elstir was now doing, with a flattering account of us—in that sacramental moment, as when in a fairy tale the magician commands a person suddenly to become someone else, she to whose presence we have been longing to attain vanishes; how could she remain the same when, for one thing—owing to the attention which the stranger is obliged to pay to the announcement of our name and the sight of our person—in the eyes that only yesterday were situated at an infinite distance (where we supposed that our eyes, wandering, uncontrolled, desperate, divergent, would never succeed in meeting them) the conscious gaze, the incommunicable thought which we have been seeking have been miraculously and quite simply replaced by our own image, painted in them as though behind the glass of a smiling mirror. If this incarnation of ourself in the person who seems to differ most from us is what does most to modify the appearance of the person to whom we have just been introduced, the form of that person still remains quite vague; and we are free to ask ourself whether she will turn out to be a god, a table or a basin. But, as nimble as the wax-modellers who will fashion a bust before our eyes in five minutes, the few words which the stranger is now going to say to us will substantiate her form, will give her something positive and final that will exclude all the hypotheses by which, a moment ago, our desire, our imagination were being tempted. Doubtless, even before her coming to this party, Albertine had ceased to be to me simply that sole phantom worthy to haunt our life which is what remains of a passing stranger, of whom we know nothing and have caught but the barest glimpse. Her relation to Mme. Bontemps had already restricted the scope of those marvellous hypotheses, by stopping one of the channels along which they might have spread. As I drew closer to the girl, and began to know her better, my knowledge of her underwent a process of subtraction, all the factors of imagination and desire giving place to a notion which was worth infinitely less, a notion to which, it must be admitted, there was added presently what was more or less the equivalent, in the domain of real life, of what joint stock companies give one, after paying interest on one’s capital, and call a bonus. Her name, her family connexions had been the original limit set to my suppositions. Her friendly greeting while, standing close beside her, I saw once again the tiny mole on her cheek, below her eye, marked another stage; last of all, I was surprised to hear her use the adverb ‘perfectly’ (in place of ‘quite’) of two people whom she mentioned, saying of one: ‘She is perfectly mad, but very nice for all that,’ and of the other, ‘He is a perfectly common man, a perfect bore.’ However little to be commended this use of ‘perfectly’ may be, it indicates a degree of civilisation and culture which I could never have imagined as having been attained by the bacchante with the bicycle, the frenzied muse of the golf-course. Nor did it mean that after this first transformation Albertine was not to change again for me, many times. The good and bad qualities which a person presents to us, exposed to view on the surface of his or her face, rearrange themselves in a totally different order if we approach them from another angle—just as, in a town, buildings that appear strung irregularly along a single line, from another aspect retire into a graduated distance, and their relative heights are altered. To begin with, Albertine now struck me as not implacable so much as almost frightened; she seemed to me rather respectably than ill bred, judging by the description, ‘bad style,’ ‘a comic manner’ which she applied to each in turn of the girls of whom I spoke to her; finally, she presented as a target for my line of sight a temple that was distinctly flushed and hardly attractive to the eye, and no longer the curious gaze which I had always connected with her until then. But this was merely a second impression and there were doubtless others through which I was successively to pass. Thus it can be only after one has recognised, not without having had to feel one’s way, the optical illusions of one’s first impression that one can arrive at an exact knowledge of another person, supposing such knowledge to be ever possible. But it is not; for while our original impression of him undergoes correction, the person himself, not being an inanimate object, changes in himself, we think that we have caught him, he moves, and, when we imagine that at last we are seeing him clearly, it is only the old impressions which we had already formed of him that we have succeeded in making clearer, when they no longer represent him.
如果我对它给我带来的快乐的认识因此延迟了几个小时，那么我立即感受到了这个介绍的重要性。在这样的介绍时刻，我们感觉自己突然变得丰富起来，获得了一张通行证，从此可以让我们享受过去几周一直在追求但徒劳的快乐，我们清楚地意识到这次收购不仅让我们结束了数小时的辛劳寻找——一种只能让我们充满喜悦的解脱——而且也结束了某个人的存在，她被我们的想象力严重扭曲了，我们对她的焦虑恐惧可能永远不会被她放大知道。当我们的名字在介绍我们的人嘴里响起时，尤其是当他放大它时，就像埃尔斯蒂尔现在所做的那样，对我们进行奉承的描述——在那个神圣的时刻，就像童话故事中魔术师命令一个人一样。一个人突然变成了另一个人，我们一直渴望出现的她消失了；一方面，由于陌生人必须注意我们的名字的公布和我们的人的视线，在昨天还处于无限远距离的眼睛中，她怎么能保持不变呢？我们认为我们的眼睛，游移的，不受控制的，绝望的，发散的，永远不会成功地遇见它们）我们一直在寻找的有意识的凝视，不可言喻的思想已经奇迹般地、相当简单地被我们自己的形象所取代，在它们中描绘出好像在微笑的镜子的玻璃后面。 如果我们自己在那个似乎与我们最不同的人身上的化身最能改变我们刚刚认识的人的外貌，那么那个人的外貌仍然相当模糊；我们可以自由地问自己，她最终会成为一个神、一张桌子还是一个盆子。但是，正如蜡像师会在五分钟内在我们眼前塑造出半身像一样灵活，陌生人现在要对我们说的几句话将证实她的形式，将给她一些积极和最终的东西，排除一切刚才，我们的欲望、我们的想象力还受到这些假设的诱惑。毫无疑问，在阿尔贝蒂娜来参加这次聚会之前，她对我来说就不再是那个唯一值得萦绕在我们生活中的幽灵了，她只是一个路过的陌生人，我们对她一无所知，也只瞥见了一眼。她与夫人的关系。邦当普斯已经通过阻止这些奇妙假设传播的渠道之一来限制这些奇妙假设的范围。当我越来越接近这个女孩，并开始更好地了解她时，我对她的了解经历了一个减法的过程，所有想象和欲望的因素都让位给了一个价值无限低的概念，这个概念必须必须承认，现在增加的内容或多或少相当于现实生活中股份公司在支付资本利息后所给予的奖励，即所谓的奖金。她的名字、她的家庭关系是我最初的猜测的界限。 当我站在她身边时，我再次看到了她友好的问候，她脸颊上眼睛下面的那颗小痣，标志着另一个阶段；最后，我很惊讶地听到她用副词“完美”（代替“相当”）来形容她提到的两个人，其中一个人说：“她完全疯了，但对此非常好，”并且另一个人则说：“他是一个完全普通的人，一个完美的无聊人。”无论这种“完美”的用法有多么值得称赞，它都表明了我从未想象过的文明和文化程度。骑着自行车的酒神，高尔夫球场的疯狂缪斯。这也不意味着阿尔贝蒂娜在第一次转变之后就不会再为我改变很多次了。一个人呈现给我们的好与坏品质，暴露在他或她的脸上，如果我们从另一个角度来观察它们，它们会以完全不同的顺序重新排列——就像在一个城镇中，看起来串成一串的建筑物一样不规则地沿着一条线，从另一个方面退回到一个渐变的距离，并且它们的相对高度发生改变。首先，阿尔贝蒂娜现在给我的印象与其说是顽固不化，不如说是几乎感到害怕。在我看来，她似乎是受人尊敬的，而不是没有教养的，从她对我与她交谈的每个女孩的描述来看，她都用“糟糕的风格”、“滑稽的方式”来形容。最后，她在我的视线中呈现出一座明显泛红、难以吸引眼球的太阳穴，不再是我之前一直与她联系在一起的好奇目光。但这只是第二印象，毫无疑问，我还会继续经历其他印象。 因此，只有在一个人认识到（并非不必摸索）一个人的第一印象的视错觉之后，一个人才能准确地了解另一个人，假设这种认识是可能的。但事实并非如此；因为当我们对他最初的印象发生修正时，这个人本身并不是一个无生命的物体，他自己发生了变化，我们认为我们已经抓住了他，他移动了，当我们想象我们终于清楚地看到了他时，它就消失了。只是当我们对他已经形成的旧印象不再代表他时，我们才成功地使这些印象变得更加清晰。

And yet, whatever the inevitable disappointments that it must bring in its train, this movement towards what we have only half seen, what we have been free to dwell upon and imagine at our leisure, this movement is the only one that is wholesome for the senses, that whets the appetite. How dreary a monotony must pervade those people’s lives who, from indolence or timidity, drive in their carriages straight to the doors of friends whom they have got to know without having first dreamed of knowing them, without ever daring, on the way, to stop and examine what arouses their desire.
然而，无论它必然带来多少不可避免的失望，这种走向我们只看到一半的运动，我们在闲暇时可以自由地思考和想象的运动，这种运动是唯一对人类有益的运动。感官，刺激食欲。那些人的生活是多么单调乏味啊，他们出于懒惰或胆怯，驾着马车直奔他们所认识的朋友家门口，却从未梦想过认识他们，也不敢在途中停下来。并检查什么激发了他们的欲望。

I returned home, my mind full of the party, the coffee éclair which I had finished eating before I let Elstir take me up to Albertine, the rose which I had given the old gentleman, all the details selected without our knowledge by the circumstances of the occasion, which compose in a special and quite fortuitous order the picture that we retain of a first meeting. But this picture, I had the impression that I was seeing it from a fresh point of view, a long way remote from myself, realising that it had not existed only for me, when some months later, to my great surprise, on my speaking to Albertine on the day on which I had first met her, she reminded me of the éclair, the flower that I had given away, all those things which I had supposed to have been—I will not say of importance only to myself but—perceived only by myself, and which I now found thus transcribed, in a version the existence of which I had never suspected, in the mind of Albertine. On this first day itself, when, on my return to the hotel, I was able to visualise the memory which I had brought away with me, I realised the consummate adroitness with which the sleight of hand had been performed, and how I had talked for a moment or two with a person who, thanks to the skill of the conjurer, without actually embodying anything of that other person whom I had for so long been following as she paced beside the sea, had been effectively substituted for her. I might, for that matter, have guessed as much in advance, since the girl of the beach was a fabrication invented by myself. In spite of which, as I had, in my conversations with Elstir, identified her with this other girl, I felt myself in honour bound to fulfil to the real the promises of love made to the imagined Albertine. We betroth ourselves by proxy, and think ourselves obliged, in the sequel, to marry the person who has intervened. Moreover, if there had disappeared, provisionally at any rate, from my life, an anguish that found adequate consolation in the memory of polite manners, of that expression ‘perfectly common’ and of the glowing temple, that memory awakened in me desire of another kind which, for all that it was placid and not at all painful, resembling rather brotherly love, might in the long run become fully as dangerous by making me feel at every moment a compelling need to kiss this new person, whose charming ways, shyness, unlooked-for accessibility, arrested the futile process of my imagination but gave birth to a sentimental gratitude. And then, since memory begins at once to record photographs independent of one another, eliminates every link, any kind of sequence from between the scenes portrayed in the collection which it exposes to our view, the most recent does not necessarily destroy or cancel those that came before. Confronted with the commonplace though appealing Albertine to whom I had spoken that afternoon, I still saw the other, mysterious Albertine outlined against the sea. These were now memories, that is to say pictures neither of which now seemed to me any more true than the other. But, to make an end of this first afternoon of my introduction to Albertine, when trying to recapture that little mole on her cheek, just under the eye, I remembered that, looking from Elstir’s window, when Albertine had gone by, I had seen the mole on her chin. In fact, whenever I saw her I noticed that she had a mole, but my inaccurate memory made it wander about the face of Albertine, fixing it now in one place, now in another.
我回到家，满脑子都是聚会，我在让埃尔斯蒂尔带我去见阿尔贝蒂娜之前吃完的咖啡闪电泡芙，我送给老先生的玫瑰花，所有这些细节都是在我们不知情的情况下选择的。这个场合，以一种特殊的、相当偶然的顺序，构成了我们保留的第一次见面的画面。但是这张照片，我的印象是我是从一个新的角度来看它的，与我自己相距很远，意识到它并不只为我而存在，几个月后，令我惊讶的是，在我的演讲中在我第一次见到阿尔贝蒂娜的那天，她让我想起了闪电泡芙，想起了我送人的花，想起了我本来应该拥有的一切——我不会只说对我自己来说很重要，但是——只有我自己才能察觉到，现在我发现它被转录成一种我从未怀疑过的版本，存在于阿尔贝蒂娜的脑海中。在我回到旅馆的第一天，当我能够想象出我带走的记忆时，我意识到我的技巧是多么娴熟，以及我是如何说话的。与一个人呆了一两分钟，由于魔术师的技巧，这个人实际上并没有体现出我长期以来在海边踱步时跟踪的另一个人的任何东西，但实际上已经取代了她。就此而言，我可能已经提前猜到了这一点，因为海滩女孩是我自己杜撰的。尽管如此，正如我在与埃尔斯蒂尔的谈话中将她等同于另一个女孩一样，我感到自己有义务真正履行对想象中的阿尔贝蒂娜的爱的承诺。 我们通过代理订婚，并认为自己有义务在后续中与介入的人结婚。此外，如果某种痛苦已经从我的生活中暂时消失了，那么这种痛苦可以在记忆中的礼貌举止、那种“非常常见”的表达方式和发光的寺庙中找到足够的安慰，这种记忆唤醒了我对另一个人的渴望。尽管这种爱是平静的，一点也不痛苦，有点像兄弟之爱，但从长远来看，这种爱可能会变得同样危险，因为让我时时刻刻都迫切需要亲吻这个新人，他迷人的方式，害羞的性格意想不到的可达性，阻止了我徒劳的想象过程，却生出了感伤的感激之情。然后，由于记忆立即开始记录彼此独立的照片，消除了它暴露在我们视野中的集合中所描绘的场景之间的每一个链接和任何类型的序列，所以最近的不一定会破坏或取消那些之前来过。面对那天下午与我交谈过的那个平凡而迷人的阿尔贝蒂娜，我仍然看到了大海映衬下的另一个神秘的阿尔贝蒂娜。现在这些都成了记忆，也就是说，现在对我来说，这些照片都不比另一个更真实。但是，在我介绍阿尔贝蒂娜的第一个下午，当我试图重新捕捉到她脸颊上眼睛下方的那颗小痣时，我想起了，当阿尔贝蒂娜走过时，我从埃尔斯蒂尔的窗户望出去，看到了她下巴上的痣。事实上，每当我看到她时，我就注意到她有一颗痣，但我不准确的记忆使它在阿尔贝蒂娜的脸上徘徊，时而固定在一处，时而固定在另一处。

Whatever my disappointment in finding in Mlle. Simonet a girl so little different from those that I knew already, just as my rude awakening when I saw Balbec Church did not prevent me from wishing still to go to Quimperlé, Pont-Aven and Venice, I comforted myself with the thought that through Albertine at any rate, even if she herself was not all that I had hoped, I might make the acquaintance of her comrades of the little band.
不管我对 Mlle 的发现有多失望。西蒙内是一个与我所认识的女孩没有什么不同的女孩，正如我看到巴尔贝克教堂时的猛然醒悟并没有阻止我仍然想去坎佩莱、阿旺桥和威尼斯一样，我安慰自己，通过阿尔贝蒂娜无论如何，即使她本人并不如我所希望的那样，我也可能会认识她的小乐队的同志们。

I thought at first that I should fail. As she was to be staying (and I too) for a long time still at Balbec, I had decided that the best thing was not to make my efforts to meet her too apparent, but to wait for an accidental encounter. But should this occur every day, even, it was greatly to be feared that she would confine herself to acknowledging my bow from a distance, and such meetings, repeated day after day throughout the whole season, would benefit me not at all.
我一开始以为我应该失败。由于她（我也是）要在巴尔贝克停留很长一段时间，我决定最好不要表现得过于明显，而是等待一次偶然的邂逅。但即使这种情况每天都发生，我也很担心她只会远远地向我致意，而这样的会面，在整个季节日复一日地重复，对我一点好处也没有。

Shortly after this, one morning when it had been raining and was almost cold, I was accosted on the ‘front’ by a girl wearing a close-fitting toque and carrying a muff, so different from the girl whom I had met at Elstir’s party that to recognise in her the same person seemed an operation beyond the power of the human mind; mine was, nevertheless, successful in performing it, but after a momentary surprise which did not, I think, escape Albertine’s notice. On the other hand, when I instinctively recalled the good breeding which had so impressed me before, she filled me with a converse astonishment by her rude tone and manners typical of the ‘little band.’ Apart from these, her temple had ceased to be the optical centre, on which the eye might comfortably rest, of her face, either because I was now on her other side, or because her toque hid it, or else possibly because its inflammation was not a constant thing. ‘What weather!’ she began. ‘Really the perpetual summer of Balbec is all stuff and nonsense. You don’t go in for anything special here, do you? We don’t ever see you playing golf, or dancing at the Casino. You don’t ride, either. You must be bored stiff. You don’t find it too deadly, staying about on the beach all day? I see, you just bask in the sun like a lizard; you enjoy that. You must have plenty of time on your hands. I can see you’re not like me; I simply adore all sports. You weren’t at the Sogne races! We went in the ‘tram,’ and I can quite believe you don’t see the fun of going in an old ‘tin-pot’ like that. It took us two whole hours! I could have gone there and back three times on my bike.’ I, who had been lost in admiration of Saint-Loup when he, in the most natural manner in the world, called the little local train the ‘crawler,’ because of the ceaseless windings of its line, was positively alarmed by the glibness with which Albertine spoke of the ‘tram,’ and called it a ‘tin-pot.’ I could feel her mastery of a form of speech in which I was afraid of her detecting and scorning my inferiority. And yet the full wealth of the synonyms that the little band possessed to denote this railway had not yet been revealed to me. In speaking, Albertine kept her head motionless, her nostrils closed, allowing only the corners of her lips to move. The result of this was a drawling, nasal sound, into the composition of which there entered perhaps a provincial descent, a juvenile affectation of British phlegm, the teaching of a foreign governess and a congestive hypertrophy of the mucus of the nose. This enunciation which, as it happened, soon disappeared when she knew people better, giving place to a natural girlish tone, might have been thought unpleasant. But it was peculiar to herself, and delighted me. Whenever I had gone for several days without seeing her, I would refresh my spirit by repeating to myself: ‘We don’t ever see you playing golf,’ with the nasal intonation in which she had uttered the words, point blank, without moving a muscle of her face. And I thought then that there could be no one in the world so desirable.
此后不久，一天早上，下着雨，天气很冷，一位戴着紧身无边无边帽、手拿手筒的女孩在“前面”向我搭话，她与我在埃尔斯蒂尔聚会上遇到的那个女孩截然不同认出她是同一个人似乎是一种超出人类思维能力的操作；尽管如此，我的还是成功地完成了这件事，但在短暂的惊讶之后，我想阿尔贝蒂娜并没有注意到这一点。另一方面，当我本能地回想起以前给我留下深刻印象的良好教养时，她那粗鲁的语气和典型的“小乐队”的举止让我感到惊讶。除此之外，她的太阳穴也不再那么美丽了。她脸上的光学中心，眼睛可以舒适地放在上面，要么是因为我现在在她的另一侧，要么是因为她的无边帽掩盖了它，或者可能是因为它的炎症不是一个持续的事情。 “天气真好！”她开始说道。 “确实，巴尔贝克的永恒夏天充满了无聊和废话。你在这里并不追求什么特别的东西，是吗？我们从来没有见过你打高尔夫球，或者在赌场跳舞。你也不骑车。你一定是无聊透了。你不觉得整天待在海滩上太致命了吗？我明白了，你只是像蜥蜴一样晒太阳；你喜欢这样。你手上一定有充足的时间。我看得出你不像我；我只是喜欢所有运动。你没有参加松恩比赛！我们乘坐“有轨电车”，我完全相信您看不到乘坐这样的旧“锡锅”的乐趣。我们花了整整两个小时！我本来可以骑自行车来回三趟。当圣卢以世界上最自然的方式将当地的小火车称为“爬行者”（因为它的线路不断蜿蜒）时，我曾对他充满敬佩，但我对他的油嘴滑舌感到非常震惊。阿尔贝蒂娜用这句话谈到了“电车”，并称其为“锡锅”。我能感觉到她对一种言语形式的掌握，我担心她会发现并蔑视我的自卑。然而，这个小乐队所拥有的用来表示这条铁路的全部同义词还没有透露给我。阿尔贝蒂娜说话时，头一动不动，鼻孔紧闭，只允许嘴角动动。这样做的结果是一种拖拖拉拉的鼻音，其成分中可能融入了外省血统、英国粘液的青少年矫揉造作、外国家庭女教师的教导和鼻粘液的充血性肥大。碰巧的是，当她更了解别人时，这种发音很快就消失了，取而代之的是一种自然的少女语气，可能会被认为是不愉快的。但这对她来说很独特，让我很高兴。每当我好几天不见她的时候，我都会用她说话时的鼻音语调对自己重复：“我们从来没有见过你打高尔夫球”，以恢复精神。她脸上的一块肌肉我当时就想，世界上不可能有人如此令人向往。

We formed that morning one of those couples who dotted the ‘front’ here and there with their conjunction, their stopping together for time enough just to exchange a few words before breaking apart, each to resume separately his or her divergent stroll. I seized the opportunity, while she stood still, to look again and discover once and for all where exactly the little mole was placed. Then, just as a phrase of Vinteuil which had delighted me in the sonata, and which my recollection allowed to wander from the andante to the finale, until the day when, having the score in my hands, I was able to find it, and to fix it in my memory in its proper place, in the scherzo, so this mole, which I had visualised now on her cheek, now on her chin, came to rest for ever on her upper lip, just below her nose. In the same way, too, do we come with amazement upon lines that we know by heart in a poem in which we never dreamed that they were to be found.
那天早上，我们组成了一对夫妇，他们的结合点缀在“前线”各处，他们在一起停留了足够的时间，只是在分手之前交换了几句话，每个人都各自恢复了各自的散步。我趁她站着不动的时候，再仔细一看，终于发现了那颗小痣到底在哪里。然后，就像奏鸣曲中令我高兴的凡特伊的一个乐句一样，我的记忆让它从行板一直游荡到终曲，直到有一天，我手里拿着乐谱，能够找到它，并且为了将它固定在我的记忆中适当的位置，在谐谑曲中，所以这颗痣，我现在想象在她的脸颊上，现在在她的下巴上，永远停留在她的上唇上，就在她的鼻子下面。同样，当我们看到一首诗中我们熟记在心的诗句时，我们也会感到惊讶，而我们从未梦想过在诗中会找到它们。

At that moment, as if in order that against the sea there might multiply in freedom, in the variety of its forms, all the rich decorative whole which was the lovely unfolding of the train of maidens, at once golden and rosy, baked by sun and wind, Albertine’s friends, with their shapely limbs, their supple figures, but so different one from another, came into sight in a cluster that expanded as it approached, advancing towards us, but keeping closer to the sea, along a parallel line. I asked Albertine’s permission to walk for a little way with her. Unfortunately, all she did was to wave her hand to them in greeting. ‘But your friends will be disappointed if you don’t go with them,’ I hinted, hoping that we might all walk together. A young man with regular features, carrying a bag of golf-clubs, sauntered up to us. It was the baccarat-player, whose fast ways so enraged the chief magistrate’s wife. In a frigid, impassive tone, which he evidently regarded as an indication of the highest refinement, he bade Albertine good day. ‘Been playing golf, Octave?’ she asked. ‘How did the game go? Were you in form?’ ‘Oh, it’s too sickening; I can’t play for nuts,’ he replied. ‘Was Andrée playing?’ ‘Yes, she went round in seventy-seven.’ ‘Why, that’s a record!’ ‘I went round in eighty-two yesterday.’ He was the son of an immensely rich manufacturer who was to take an important part in the organisation of the coming World’s Fair. I was struck by the extreme degree to which, in this young man and in the other by no means numerous male friends of the band of girls, the knowledge of everything that pertained to clothes and how to wear them, cigars, English drinks, horses, a knowledge which he possessed in its minutest details with a haughty infallibility that approached the reticent modesty of the true expert, had been developed in complete isolation, unaccompanied by the least trace of any intellectual culture. He had no hesitation as to the right time and place for dinner-jacket or pyjamas, but neither had he any suspicion of the circumstances in which one might or might not employ this or that word, or even of the simplest rules of grammar. This disparity between the two forms of culture must have existed also in his father, the President of the Syndicate that ‘ran’ Balbec, for, in an open letter to the electors which he had recently had posted on all the walls, he announced: ‘I desired to see the Mayor, to speak to him of the matter; he would not listen to my righteous plaint.’ Octave, at the Casino, took prizes in all the dancing competitions, for bostons, tangos and what-not, an accomplishment that would entitle him, if he chose, to make a fine marriage in that seaside society where it is not figuratively but in sober earnest that the young women ‘marry their dancing-partners.’ He lighted a cigar with a ‘D’you mind?’ to Albertine, as one who asks permission to finish, while going on talking, an urgent piece of work. For he was one of those people who can never be ‘doing nothing,’ although there was nothing, for that matter, that he could ever be said to do. And as complete inactivity has the same effect on us, in the end, as prolonged overwork, and on the character as much as on the life of body and muscles, the unimpaired nullity of intellect that was enshrined behind Octave’s meditative brow had ended by giving him, despite his air of unruffled calm, ineffectual longings to think which kept him awake at night, for all the world like an overwrought philosopher.
在那一刻，仿佛为了在大海的映衬下，可以自由繁衍，以各种形式，所有丰富的装饰整体，这是少女的队伍可爱的展开，在阳光的烘烤下，金黄和玫瑰色立即出现还有风，阿尔贝蒂娜的朋友们，他们的四肢匀称，身材柔美，但彼此又截然不同，他们成群地出现在我们的视野中，随着它们的接近而扩大，向我们走来，但沿着一条平行线，仍然靠近大海。我请求阿尔贝蒂娜允许我和她一起走一段路。不幸的是，她只是向他们挥手打招呼。 “但是如果你不和你的朋友一起去，他们会感到失望的，”我暗示道，希望我们都可以一起走。一个五官端正的年轻人，拎着一袋高尔夫球杆，悠闲地向我们走来。是百家乐玩家，他的速度太快，激怒了县长的妻子。他用一种冷酷无情的语气向阿尔贝蒂娜问好，他显然认为这是最高雅的表现。 “奥克塔夫，你一直在打高尔夫球吗？”她问。 ‘比赛进行得怎么样？ “哦，这太恶心了；你状态好吗？”我不能疯狂地打球，”他回答道。 “安德烈在玩吗？”“是的，她以七十七杆的成绩参赛。”“哦，那是一个纪录！”“我昨天以八十二杆的成绩参赛。”他是一位非常富有的制造商的儿子，他将接受组织即将到来的世界博览会的重要组成部分。 令我震惊的是，这个年轻人和另一个女孩中的男性朋友绝非众多，他们对与衣服和如何穿着有关的一切知识，雪茄，英国饮料，马匹都非常了解。他所拥有的知识在最细微的细节上都具有傲慢的无误性，接近真正专家的沉默寡言的谦逊，这种知识是在完全孤立的情况下发展起来的，没有任何知识文化的痕迹。对于穿晚礼服或睡衣的正确时间和地点，他毫不犹豫，但他也不怀疑人们在什么情况下可能会或可能不会使用这个或那个词，甚至是最简单的语法规则。两种文化形式之间的这种差异肯定也存在于他的父亲身上，即“管理”巴尔贝克的辛迪加主席身上，因为在他最近张贴在所有墙上的一封给选民的公开信中，他宣布： “我想见见市长，跟他谈谈这件事；他不肯听我正义的哀诉。”奥克塔夫在赌场里，在所有舞蹈比赛中获奖，包括波士顿舞、探戈舞等等，如果他愿意的话，这一成就将使他有资格在在那个海滨社会，年轻女子“嫁给她们的舞伴”并不是象征性的，而是严肃认真的。他点燃一支雪茄，向阿尔贝蒂娜问了句“你介意吗？”，就像一个请求允许结束的人，一边走一边谈话是一项紧急的工作。因为他是那些永远不可能“无所事事”的人之一，尽管就这一点而言，他什么也没有做。 由于完全不活动最终对我们产生了同样的影响，就像长时间的过度劳累一样，对性格以及对身体和肌肉的生命也有同样的影响，奥克塔夫沉思的额头背后所珍藏的未受损害的智力无效性最终以给予尽管他表现得镇定自若，但对思考的渴望却毫无效果，这让他彻夜难眠，就像一个过度劳累的哲学家。

Supposing that if I knew their male friends I should have more opportunities of seeing the girls, I had been on the point of asking for an introduction to Octave. I told Albertine this, as soon as he had left us, still muttering, ‘I couldn’t play for nuts!’ I thought I would thus put into her head the idea of doing it next time. ‘But I can’t,’ she cried, ‘introduce you to a tame cat like that. This place simply swarms with them. But what on earth would they have to say to you? That one plays golf quite well, and that’s all there is to it. I know what I’m talking about; you’d find he wasn’t at all your sort.’ ‘Your friends will be cross with you if you desert them like this,’ I repeated, hoping that she would then suggest my joining the party. ‘Oh, no, they don’t want me.’ We ran into Bloch, who directed at me a subtle, insinuating smile, and, embarrassed by the presence of Albertine, whom he did not know, or, rather, knew ‘without knowing’ her, bent his head with a stiff, almost irritated jerk. ‘What’s he called, that Ostrogoth?’ Albertine asked. ‘I can’t think why he should bow to me; he doesn’t know me. And I didn’t bow to him, either.’ I had no time to explain to her, for, bearing straight down upon us, ‘Excuse me,’ he began, ‘for interrupting you, but I must tell you that I am going to Don-cières to-morrow. I cannot put it off any longer without discourtesy; indeed, I ask myself, what must de Saint-Loup-en-Bray think of me. I just came to let you know that I shall take the two o’clock train. At your service.’ But I thought now only of seeing Albertine again, and of trying to get to know her friends, and Doncières, since they were not going there, and my going would bring me back too late to see them still on the beach, seemed to me to be situated at the other end of the world. I told Bloch that it was impossible. ‘Oh, very well, I shall go alone. In the fatuous words of Master Arouet, I shall say to Saint-Loup, to beguile his clericalism:
假设如果我认识他们的男性朋友，我应该有更多的机会见到这些女孩，我一直想要求介绍一下奥克塔夫。阿尔贝蒂娜一离开我们，我就告诉了他这件事，嘴里还嘟哝着：“我不能胡思乱想！”我想这样我就能把下次也这么做的想法灌输给她了。 “但我不能，”她喊道，“向你介绍一只这样驯服的猫。”这个地方挤满了他们。但他们到底要对你说什么呢？那个人高尔夫球打得很好，仅此而已。我知道我在说什么； “如果你像这样抛弃你的朋友，他们会生你的气。”我重复道，希望她会建议我加入这个聚会。 “哦，不，他们不需要我。”我们遇到了布洛赫，他对我露出微妙的、暗示性的微笑，并为阿尔贝蒂娜的出现感到尴尬，因为他不认识阿尔贝蒂娜，或者更确切地说，“不认识阿尔贝蒂娜”。他认识她，他僵硬地、几乎是恼怒地猛地低下头。 “那个东哥特人叫什么？”阿尔贝蒂娜问。 “我不明白他为什么要向我鞠躬；他不认识我。我也没有向他鞠躬。”我没有时间向她解释，因为他直接冲着我们说道，“对不起，”他开始说道，“我打断了你们，但我必须告诉你们，我是明天去Don-cières。我不能再无礼地拖延了。事实上，我问自己，德圣卢昂布雷一定会怎么看我。我只是来告诉你我要乘两点钟的火车。乐意效劳。但我现在只想再次见到阿尔贝蒂娜，并尝试去了解她的朋友们，还有东西埃，因为他们不会去那里，而我去的话会带我回来太晚而看不到他们还在海滩上，似乎我位于世界的另一端。我告诉布洛赫这是不可能的。 ‘哦，好吧，我一个人去吧。 为了迷惑圣卢的教权主义，我要用阿鲁埃大师的愚昧的话来说：

‘My duty stands alone, by his in no way bound;
“我的职责是单独的，不受他的任何约束；

Though he should choose to fail, yet faithful I’ll be found.’’
尽管他应该选择失败，但我会找到忠诚的。”

‘I admit he’s not a bad looking boy,’ was Albertine’s comment, ‘but he makes me feel quite sick.’ I had never thought that Bloch might be ‘not a bad looking boy’; and yet, when one came to think of it, so he was. With his rather prominent brow, very aquiline nose, and his air of extreme cleverness and of being convinced of his cleverness, he had a pleasing face. But he could not succeed in pleasing Albertine. This was perhaps due, to some extent, to her own disadvantages, the harshness, the want of feeling of the little band, its rudeness towards everything that was not itself. And later on, when I introduced them, Albertine’s antipathy for him grew no less. Bloch belonged to a section of society in which, between the free and easy customs of the ‘smart set’ and the regard for good manners which a man is supposed to shew who ‘does not soil his hands,’ a sort of special compromise has been reached which differs from the manners of the world and is nevertheless a peculiarly unpleasant form of worldliness. When he was introduced to anyone he would bow with a sceptical smile, and at the same time with an exaggerated show of respect, and, if it was to a man, would say: ‘Pleased to meet you, sir,’ in a voice which ridiculed the words that it was uttering, though with a consciousness of belonging to some one who was no fool. Having sacrificed this first moment to a custom which he at once followed and derided (just as on the first of January he would greet you with a ‘Many happy!’) he would adopt an air of infinite cunning, and would ‘proffer subtle words’ which were often true enough but ‘got on’ Albertine’s nerves. When I told her on this first day that his name was Bloch, she exclaimed: ‘I would have betted anything he was a Jew-boy. Trust them to put their foot in it!’ Moreover, Bloch was destined to give Albertine other grounds for annoyance later on. Like many intellectuals, he was incapable of saying a simple thing in a simple way. He would find some precious qualification for every statement, and would sweep from particular to general. It vexed Albertine, who was never too well pleased at other people’s shewing an interest in what she was doing, that when she had sprained her ankle and was keeping quiet, Bloch said of her: ‘She is outstretched on her chair, but in her ubiquity has not ceased to frequent simultaneously vague golf-courses and dubious tennis-courts.’ He was simply being ‘literary,’ of course, but this, in view of the difficulties which Albertine felt that it might create for her with friends whose invitations she had declined on the plea that she was unable to move, was quite enough to disgust her with the face, the sound of the voice, of the young man who could say such things about her. We parted, Albertine and I, after promising to take a walk together later. I had talked to her without being any more conscious of where my words were falling, of what became of them, than if I were dropping pebbles into a bottomless pit. That our words are, as a general rule, filled, by the person to whom we address them, with a meaning which that person derives from her own substance, a meaning widely different from that which we had put into the same words when we uttered them, is a fact which the daily round of life is perpetually demonstrating. But if we find ourselves as well in the company of a person whose education (as Albertine’s was to me) is inconceivable, her tastes, her reading, her principles unknown, we cannot tell whether our words have aroused in her anything that resembles their meaning, any more than in an animal, although there are things that even an animal may be made to understand. So that to attempt any closer friendship with Albertine seemed to me like placing myself in contact with the unknown, if not the impossible, an occupation as arduous as breaking a horse, as reposeful as keeping bees or growing roses.
“我承认他长得不难看，”阿尔贝蒂娜评论道，“但他让我感到很恶心。”我从来没想过布洛赫可能是“一个长得不难看的孩子”；他是个“长得不难看”的人。然而，仔细一想，他确实是这样。他眉头挺拔，鹰钩鼻，一副聪明绝顶、自以为聪明的样子，长着一张讨人喜欢的脸。但他没能取悦阿尔贝蒂娜。这也许在某种程度上是由于她自己的劣势，小乐队的严厉，缺乏感情，对除自身之外的一切的粗鲁。后来，当我介绍他们时，阿尔贝蒂娜对他的反感丝毫没有减少。布洛赫属于这样一个社会阶层，在“聪明人”自由自在的习俗和“不弄脏双手”的人应该表现出的良好举止之间，存在着一种特殊的妥协。这与世俗的习俗不同，但却是一种特别令人不快的世俗形式。当他被介绍给任何人时，他会带着怀疑的微笑鞠躬，同时表现出夸张的尊重，如果是对一个男人，他会用一种声音说：“很高兴见到您，先生。”它嘲笑它所说的话，尽管它意识到自己属于某个不傻的人。在牺牲了这第一时刻之后，他立即遵循并嘲笑了一种习俗（就像一月一日他会用“祝你快乐！”来迎接你一样），他会采取一种无限狡猾的神态，并会“提供微妙的话语” ”这句话常常是对的，但却“惹恼了”阿尔贝蒂娜。当我第一天告诉她他的名字叫布洛赫时，她惊呼道：“我愿意打赌他是一个犹太男孩。”相信他们会全力以赴！’此外，布洛赫后来注定会给阿尔贝蒂娜带来其他的烦恼。和许多知识分子一样，他无法用简单的方式说出简单的事情。他会为每一个陈述找到一些宝贵的限定条件，并从特殊到一般。让阿尔贝蒂娜很恼火的是，她从来不高兴别人对她所做的事情表现出兴趣，当她扭伤脚踝并保持沉默时，布洛赫这样评价她：无处不在的现象并没有停止同时出现模糊的高尔夫球场和可疑的网球场。”当然，他只是在“文学”，但这是考虑到阿尔贝蒂娜认为这可能会给她与朋友们的邀请带来困难。她拒绝了，理由是她无法动弹，这个年轻人的脸、声音和居然能对她说这样的话，这足以让她感到厌恶。我和阿尔贝蒂娜答应稍后一起去散步，然后就分手了。我和她说话时，并没有意识到我的话落到了哪里，也没有意识到它们会变成什么样子，就像我把鹅卵石扔进无底洞一样。作为一般规则，我们的言语是由我们向其说话的人填充的，该人从她自己的实质中获得了一种含义，这种含义与我们在说出相同话语时所赋予的含义有很大不同他们，是日常生活不断证明的事实。 但是，如果我们发现自己身边的人的教育程度（就像阿尔贝蒂娜对我来说）令人难以置信，她的品味、她的阅读和她的原则都是未知的，我们就无法判断我们的话语是否在她身上激起了任何与其含义相似的东西。 ，与动物相比，尽管有些事情即使是动物也可以理解。因此，在我看来，尝试与阿尔贝蒂娜建立更密切的友谊就像让自己接触到未知的事物，甚至是不可能的事物，这是一项像驯马一样艰巨的工作，又像饲养蜜蜂或种植玫瑰一样平静。

I had thought, a few hours before, that Albertine would acknowledge my bow but would not speak to me. We had now parted, after planning to make some excursion soon together. I vowed that when I next met Albertine I would treat her with greater boldness, and I had sketched out in advance a draft of all that I would say to her, and even (being now quite convinced that she was not strait-laced) of all the favours that I would demand of her. But the mind is subject to external influences, as plants are, and cells and chemical elements, and the medium in which its immersion alters it is a change of circumstances, or new surroundings. Grown different by the mere fact of her presence, when I found myself once again in Albertine’s company, what I said to her was not at all what I had meant to say. Remembering her flushed temple, I asked myself whether she might not appreciate more keenly a polite attention which she knew to be disinterested. Besides, I was embarrassed by certain things in her look, in her smile. They might equally well signify a laxity of morals and the rather silly merriment of a girl who though full of spirits was at heart thoroughly respectable. A single expression, on a face as in speech, is susceptible of divers interpretations, and I stood hesitating like a schoolboy faced by the difficulties of a piece of Greek prose.
几个小时前，我还以为阿尔贝蒂娜会向我鞠躬，但不会跟我说话。我们计划很快一起去旅行，现在已经分手了。我发誓，当我下次见到阿尔贝蒂娜时，我会更加大胆地对待她，我已经提前拟定了我要对她说的话的草稿，甚至（现在我确信她并不拘谨）我要求她提供的所有好处。但心灵会受到外部影响，就像植物、细胞和化学元素一样，而其浸入其中改变它的媒介是环境的变化或新的环境。仅仅因为她的存在，我就变得不同了，当我发现自己又回到阿尔贝蒂娜身边时，我对她说的话根本不是我想说的。想起她涨红的太阳穴，我问自己，她是否会更欣赏礼貌的关注，而她知道这种关注是无私的。此外，她的表情和笑容中的某些东西让我感到尴尬。它们同样可能象征着道德的松懈和一个虽然精神饱满但内心完全值得尊敬的女孩的愚蠢的欢乐。脸上和言语中的单一表情很容易有多种解释，我站在那里犹豫不决，就像一个面对希腊散文的困难的小学生。

On this occasion we met almost immediately the tall one, Andrée, the one who had jumped over the old banker, and Albertine was obliged to introduce me. Her friend had a pair of eyes of extraordinary brightness, like, in a dark house, a glimpse through an open door of a room into which the sun is shining with a greenish reflexion from the glittering sea.
这次我们几乎立刻就见到了那个高个子安德烈，就是那个跳过老银行家的人，阿尔贝蒂娜不得不介绍我。她的朋友有一双异常明亮的眼睛，就像在一间漆黑的房子里，透过敞开的门瞥见房间里的阳光，反射着波光粼粼的大海的绿色反射。

A party of five were passing, men whom I had come to know very well by sight during my stay at Balbec. I had often wondered who they could be. ‘They’re nothing very wonderful,’ said Albertine with a sneering laugh. ‘The little old one with dyed hair and yellow gloves has a fine touch; he knows how to draw all right, he’s the Balbec dentist; he’s a good sort. The fat one is the Mayor, not the tiny little fat one, you must have seen him before, he’s the dancing master; he’s rather a beast, you know; he can’t stand us, because we make such a row at the Casino; we smash his chairs, and want to have the carpet up when we dance; that’s why he never gives us prizes, though we’re the only girls there who can dance a bit. The dentist is a dear, I would have said how d’ye do to him, just to make the dancing master swear, but I couldn’t because they’ve got M. de Sainte-Croix with them; he’s on the General Council; he comes of a very good family, but he’s joined the Republicans, to make more money. No nice people ever speak to him now. He knows my uncle, because they’re both in the Government, but the rest of my family always cut him. The thin one in the waterproof is the bandmaster. You know him, of course. You don’t? Oh, he plays divinely. You haven’t been to Cavalleria Rusticana? I thought it too lovely! He’s giving a concert this evening, but we can’t go because it’s to be in the town hall. In the Casino it wouldn’t matter, but in the town hall, where they’ve taken down the crucifix. Andrée’s mother would have a fit if we went there. You’re going to say that my aunt’s husband is in the Government. But what difference does that make? My aunt is my aunt. That’s not why I’m fond of her. The only thing she has ever wanted has been to get rid of me. No, the person who has really been a mother to me, and all the more credit to her because she’s no relation at all, is a friend of mine whom I love just as much as if she was my mother. I will let you see her ‘photo.’’ We were joined for a moment by the golf champion and baccarat plunger, Octave. I thought that I had discovered a bond between us, for I learned in the course of conversation that he was some sort of relative, and even more a friend of the Verdurins. But he spoke contemptuously of the famous Wednesdays, adding that M. Verdurin had never even heard of a dinner-jacket, which made it a horrid bore when one ran into him in a music-hall, where one would very much rather not be greeted with ‘Well, you young rascal,’ by an old fellow in a frock coat and black tie, for all the world like a village lawyer. Octave left us, and soon it was Andrée’s turn, when we came to her villa, into which she vanished without having uttered a single word to me during the whole of our walk. I regretted her departure, all the more in that, while I was complaining to Albertine how chilling her friend had been with me, and was comparing in my mind this difficulty which Albertine seemed to find in making me know her friends with the hostility that Elstir, when he might have granted my desire, seemed to have encountered on that first afternoon, two girls came by to whom I lifted my hat, the young Ambresacs, whom Albertine greeted also.
一行五人正经过，他们是我在巴尔贝克逗留期间就已经很熟悉的人了。我常常想知道他们是谁。 “它们没什么了不起的，”阿尔贝蒂娜冷笑道。 ‘那个染着头发、戴着黄色手套的小老头，手感很好；他很会画画，他是巴尔贝克的牙医；他是个好人。那个胖子是市长，不是那个小胖子，你一定见过他，他是舞蹈老师；你知道，他简直就是一头野兽；他受不了我们，因为我们在赌场吵得那么厉害；我们砸烂他的椅子，跳舞时还想把地毯铺起来；这就是为什么他从不给我们颁发奖品，尽管我们是那里唯一会跳舞的女孩。牙医是个亲爱的人，我本来会说你对他怎么样，只是为了让舞蹈大师发誓，但我不能，因为他们有德·圣克鲁瓦先生和他们一起；他是总理事会的成员；他出身于一个非常好的家庭，但他加入了共和党，为了赚更多的钱。现在没有好人跟他说话了。他认识我叔叔，因为他们都在政府工作，但我家里的其他人总是对他不屑一顾。防水的薄款是乐队指挥。你当然认识他。你不知道吗？哦，他打球很神。您还没去过乡村骑士吗？我也觉得太可爱了！他今晚要举办一场音乐会，但我们不能去，因为要在市政厅举行。在赌场没关系，但在市政厅，他们已经拆下了十字架。如果我们去那里，安德烈的母亲会发脾气。你会说我姨妈的丈夫在政府工作。但这有什么区别呢？我的阿姨就是我的阿姨。这不是我喜欢她的原因。她唯一想要的就是摆脱我。 不，真正对我来说是母亲的人，对她来说更值得称赞，因为她根本没有亲戚，是我的一个朋友，我爱她就像她是我的母亲一样。我会让你看看她的“照片”。高尔夫冠军和百家乐柱塞奥克塔夫也加入了我们一会儿。我以为我发现了我们之间的联系，因为我在谈话中得知他是韦尔迪兰家族的某种亲戚，甚至是朋友。但他轻蔑地谈到了著名的星期三，并补充说维尔迪兰先生从未听说过晚礼服，这使得当人们在音乐厅遇到他时感到非常无聊，而人们宁愿不受到欢迎。一位穿着礼服、打着黑色领带的老家伙，像乡村律师一样对全世界说“好吧，你这个小流氓”。奥克塔夫离开了我们，很快就轮到安德烈了，当我们来到她的别墅时，她消失在别墅里，在我们的整个步行过程中没有对我说一句话。我对她的离开感到更加遗憾，同时我一边向阿尔贝蒂娜抱怨她的朋友对我有多冷漠，一边在心里比较阿尔贝蒂娜在让我认识她的朋友时所遇到的困难，以及埃尔斯蒂尔那样的敌意。当他可能满足我的愿望时，似乎是在第一个下午遇到的，两个女孩走过来，我向她们脱帽致敬，她们是年轻的安布雷萨克，阿尔贝蒂娜也向她们打招呼。

I felt that, in Albertine’s eyes, my position would be improved by this meeting. They were the daughters of a kinswoman of Mme. de Ville-parisis, who was also a friend of Mme. de Luxembourg. M. and Mme. d’Ambresac, who had a small villa at Balbec and were immensely rich, led the simplest of lives there, and always went about dressed he in an unvarying frock coat, she in a dark gown. Both of them used to make sweeping bows to my grandmother, which never led to anything further. The daughters, who were very pretty, were dressed more fashionably, but in a fashion suited rather to Paris than to the seaside. With their long skirts and large hats, they had the look of belonging to a different race from Albertine. She, I discovered, knew all about them.
我觉得，在阿尔贝蒂娜眼中，这次会面会让我的地位得到改善。她们是夫人的一位亲戚的女儿。 de Ville-parisis，他也是夫人的朋友。德卢森堡。 M.和Mme。达姆布雷萨克在巴尔贝克拥有一座小别墅，而且非常富有，他在那里过着最简单的生活，他出门总是穿着一成不变的礼服大衣，而她则穿着深色礼服。他们俩曾经向我祖母深深鞠了一躬，但这并没有带来任何进一步的结果。女儿们非常漂亮，穿得更时尚，但这种时尚更适合巴黎而不是海边。她们穿着长裙，戴着大帽子，看上去与阿尔贝蒂娜属于不同的种族。我发现她了解他们的一切。

‘Oh, so you know the little d’Ambresacs, do you? Dear me, you have some swagger friends. After all, they’re very simple souls,’ she went on as though this might account for it. ‘They’re very nice, but so well brought up that they aren’t allowed near the Casino, for fear of us—we’ve such a bad tone. They attract you, do they? Well, it all depends on what you like. They’re just little white rabbits, really. There may be something in that, of course. If little white rabbits are what appeals to you, they may supply a long-felt want. It seems, there must be some attraction, because one of them has got engaged already to the Marquis de Saint-Loup. Which is a cruel blow to the younger one, who is madly in love with that young man. I’m sure, the way they speak to you with their lips shut is quite enough for me. And then they dress in the most absurd way. Fancy going to play golf in silk frocks! At their age, they dress more showily than grown-up women who really know about clothes. Look at Mme. Elstir; there’s a well dressed woman if you like.’ I answered that she had struck me as being dressed with the utmost simplicity. Albertine laughed. ‘She does put on the simplest things, I admit, but she dresses wonderfully, and to get what you call simplicity costs her a fortune.’ Mme. Elstir’s gowns passed unnoticed by any one who had not a sober and unerring taste in matters of attire. This was lacking in me. Elstir possessed it in a supreme degree, or so Albertine told me. I had not suspected this, nor that the beautiful but quite simple objects which littered his studio were treasures long desired by him which he had followed from sale room to sale room, knowing all their history, until he had made enough money to be able to acquire them. But as to this Albertine, being as ignorant as myself, could not enlighten me. Whereas when it came to clothes, prompted by a coquettish instinct, and perhaps by the regretful longing of a penniless girl who is able to appreciate with greater disinterestedness, more delicacy of feeling, in other, richer people the things that she will never be able to afford for herself, she expressed herself admirably on the refinement of Elstir’s taste, so hard to satisfy that all women appeared to him badly dressed, while, attaching infinite importance to right proportions and shades of colour, he would order to be made for his wife, at fabulous prices, the sunshades, hats and cloaks which he had learned from Albertine to regard as charming, and which a person wanting in taste would no more have noticed than myself. Apart from this, Albertine, who had done a little painting, though without, she confessed, having any ‘gift’ for it, felt a boundless admiration for Elstir, and, thanks to his precept and example, shewed a judgment of pictures which was in marked contrast to her enthusiasm for Cavalleria Rusticana. The truth was, though as yet it was hardly apparent, that she was highly intelligent, and that in the things that she said the stupidity was not her own but that of her environment and age. Elstir’s had been a good but only a partial influence. All the branches of her intelligence had not reached the same stage of development. The taste for pictures had almost caught up the taste for clothes and all forms of smartness, but had not been followed by the taste for music, which was still a long way behind.
“哦，那么你认识小德安布雷萨克，是吗？亲爱的我，你有一些招摇的朋友。毕竟，他们的灵魂非常简单。”她继续说道，好像这可以解释这一点。 “他们非常友善，但教养很好，不允许他们靠近赌场，因为担心我们——我们的语气很糟糕。他们吸引你，是吗？好吧，这完全取决于你喜欢什么。他们只是小白兔，真的。当然，其中可能有一些东西。如果小白兔对你有吸引力，它们可能会满足你长久以来的渴望。看来，一定有什么吸引力，因为其中一人已经和圣卢侯爵订婚了。这对疯狂爱着那个年轻人的年轻人来说是一个残酷的打击。我相信，他们闭着嘴对你说话的方式对我来说已经足够了。然后他们以最荒谬的方式穿着。想要穿着丝绸连衣裙打高尔夫球！在她们这个年纪，她们穿得比真正懂得穿衣的成年女性还要华丽。看看夫人。埃尔斯蒂尔；如果你愿意的话，这里有一个穿着漂亮的女人。”我回答说，她的穿着给我留下了极其简单的印象。阿尔贝蒂娜笑了。 “我承认，她确实穿了最简单的衣服，但她穿得很漂亮，为了得到你所说的简单，她花了很多钱。”任何对着装没有清醒和准确品味的人都不会注意到埃尔斯蒂尔的礼服。这是我所欠缺的。埃尔斯蒂尔在这一点上达到了至高无上的程度，至少阿尔贝蒂娜是这么告诉我的。我没有想到这一点，也没有想到那些散落在他工作室里的美丽但相当简单的物品是他长期以来渴望的宝藏，他从一个拍卖室跟踪到另一个拍卖室，了解它们的所有历史，直到他赚到了足够的钱，能够买下它们。获取它们。 但对于这个阿尔贝蒂娜，我和我一样无知，无法启发我。而说到衣服，出于一种卖弄的本能，也许是出于一个身无分文的女孩的遗憾渴望，她能够以更大的无私、更细腻的感情来欣赏其他有钱人身上她永远无法体会到的东西。为了养活自己，她对埃尔斯蒂尔的品味表示钦佩，她很难满足，以至于所有女人在他看来都穿着糟糕，而他又极其重视正确的比例和颜色深浅，他会下令为他量身定做。他从阿尔贝蒂娜那里学来的遮阳伞、帽子和斗篷，价格惊人，他认为这些东西很迷人，而一个追求品味的人不会比我更注意到这些东西。除此之外，阿尔贝蒂娜虽然画过一点画，但她承认她没有画画的“天赋”，她对埃尔斯蒂尔怀有无限的钦佩之情，并且由于他的言传身教，她对绘画表现出了一种判断力，这种判断力是正确的。这与她对《乡村骑士》的热情形成鲜明对比。事实是，虽然目前还很难看出，但她非常聪明，而且在她所说的事情中，愚蠢不是她自己的，而是她的环境和年龄的。埃尔斯蒂尔的影响是好的，但只是局部的。她的所有智力分支都没有达到相同的发展阶段。对图片的品味几乎赶上了对衣服和各种聪明才智的品味，但对音乐的品味却远远落后。

Albertine might know all about the Ambresacs; but as he who can achieve great things is not necessarily capable of small, I did not find her, after I had bowed to those young ladies, any better disposed to make me known to her friends. ‘It’s too good of you to attach any importance to them. You shouldn’t take any notice of them; they don’t count. What on earth can a lot of kids like them mean to a man like you? Now Andrée, I must say, is remarkably clever. She is a good girl, that, though she is perfectly fantastic at times, but the others are really dreadfully stupid.’ When I had left Albertine, I felt suddenly a keen regret that Saint-Loup should have concealed his engagement from me and that he should be doing anything so improper as to choose a wife before breaking with his mistress. And then, shortly afterwards, I met Andrée, and as she went on talking to me for some time I seized the opportunity to tell her that I would very much like to see her again next day, but she replied that this was impossible, because her mother was not at all well, and she would have to stay beside her. The next day but one, when I was at Elstir’s, he told me how greatly Andrée had been attracted by me; on my protesting: ‘But it was I who was attracted by her from the start; I asked her to meet me again yesterday, but she could not.’ ‘Yes, I know; she told me all about that,’ was his reply, ‘she was very sorry, but she had promised to go to a picnic, somewhere miles from here. They were to drive over in a break, and it was too late for her to get out of it.’ Albeit this falsehood (Andrée knowing me so slightly) was of no real importance, I ought not to have continued to seek the company of a person who was capable of uttering it. For what people have once done they will do again indefinitely, and if you go every year to see a friend who, the first time, was not able to meet you at the appointed place, or was in bed with a chill, you will find him in bed with another chill which he has just caught, you will miss him again at another meeting-place at which he has failed to appear, for a single and unalterable reason in place of which he supposes himself to have various reasons, drawn from the circumstances. One morning, not long after An-dree’s telling me that she would be obliged to stay beside her mother, I was taking a short stroll with Albertine, whom I had found on the beach tossing up and catching again on a cord an oddly shaped implement which gave her a look of Giotto’s ‘Idolatry’; it was called, for that matter, ‘Diabolo,’ and is so fallen into disuse now that, when they come upon the picture of a girl playing with one, the critics of future generations will solemnly discuss, as it might be over one of the allegorical figures in the Arena, what it is that she is holding. A moment later their friend with the penurious and harsh appearance, the same one who on that first day had sneered so malevolently: ‘I do feel sorry for him, poor old man,’ when, she saw the old gentleman’s head brushed by the flying feet of Andrée, came up to Albertine with ‘Good morning,’m I disturbing you?’ She had taken off her hat, for comfort, and her hair, like a strange and fascinating-plant, lay over her brow, displaying all the delicate tracery of its foliation^ Albertine, perhaps because she resented seeing the other bare-headed, made-no reply, preserved a frigid silence in spite of which the girl stayed with us, kept apart from myself by Albertine, who arranged at one moment to be-alone with her, at another to walk with me leaving her to follow. I was obliged, to secure an introduction, to ask for it in the girl’s hearing. Then, as Albertine was uttering my name, on the face and in the blue eyes of this girl, whose expression I had thought so cruel when I heard her say: ‘Poor old man, I do feel so sorry for him,’ I saw gather and gleam a cordial, friendly smile, and she held out her hand. Her hair was golden, and not her hair only; for if her cheeks were pink and her eyes blue it was like the still roseate morning sky which sparkles everywhere with dazzling points of gold.
阿尔贝蒂娜或许对安布雷萨克家族了如指掌。但能成大事的人不一定能做小事，所以在我向那些年轻女士鞠躬之后，我并没有发现她更愿意让她的朋友们认识我。 ‘你太善良了，竟然不重视它们。你不应该注意到他们；他们不算数。对于像你这样的男人来说，这么多像他们这样的孩子到底意味着什么？我必须说，现在安德烈非常聪明。她是个好姑娘，尽管她有时表现得非常出色，但其他人却愚蠢得可怕。”当我离开阿尔贝蒂娜时，我突然感到一种强烈的遗憾，圣卢竟然向我隐瞒了他订婚的事，他应该做任何不正当的事情，比如在与情妇决裂之前选择一个妻子。然后，不久之后，我遇到了安德烈，当她继续和我交谈了一段时间时，我抓住机会告诉她我非常希望第二天再次见到她，但她回答说这是不可能的，因为她的母亲身体不太好，她必须留在她身边。第二天，只有一天，当我在埃尔斯蒂尔家时，他告诉我安德烈是多么被我吸引。我抗议道：“但从一开始就是我被她吸引的；”昨天我约她再见面，但她不能。”她告诉了我这一切，”他回答道，“她很抱歉，但她答应去离这里几英里的地方去野餐。他们要在休息时开车过去，而她想摆脱困境已经太晚了。”虽然这个谎言（安德烈对我了解甚少）并不重要，但我不应该继续寻求陪伴。有能力说出这句话的人。 人做过的事，会无限期地再做一次，如果你每年去看一个朋友，第一次没能在约定的地点见面，或者感冒躺在床上，你会发现他因刚刚感冒而躺在床上，你会在另一个聚会地点再次想念他，而他却没有出现，因为一个单一的、不可改变的原因，他认为自己有各种各样的原因，来自情况。一天早上，就在安德丽告诉我她必须留在她母亲身边后不久，我和阿尔贝蒂娜一起散步，我发现她在海滩上翻来覆去，又用一根绳子抓住了一根形状奇怪的工具。这让她看起来像乔托的“偶像崇拜”；就这一点而言，它被称为“空竹”，现在已经不再使用了，以至于当后代的批评家看到一个女孩在玩空竹的照片时，他们会严肃地讨论，因为它可能是关于一个女孩在玩空竹的照片。竞技场中的寓言人物，她手里拿着的是什么。过了一会儿，他们的朋友露出了吝啬而严厉的样子，就是那个第一天就如此恶毒地冷笑过的人：“我确实为他感到难过，可怜的老人。”当时，她看到老绅士的头被飞舞的风拂过。安德烈的脚走到阿尔贝蒂娜面前，说道：“早上好，我打扰你了吗？”为了舒服起见，她摘下了帽子，她的头发就像一株奇怪而迷人的植物，垂在额头上，展现出其叶子的精致花纹。阿尔贝蒂娜，也许是因为她讨厌看到对方光着头，阿尔贝蒂娜没有回答，保持着冷漠的沉默，但她仍然和我们在一起，阿尔贝蒂娜把我和我分开，一会儿和她单独在一起，一会儿又和我一起散步，留下她跟在后面。为了获得介绍，我不得不在女孩的听证会上提出要求。然后，当阿尔贝蒂娜在这个女孩的脸上和蓝眼睛中说出我的名字时，当我听到她说：“可怜的老人，我确实为他感到难过时，我觉得她的表情是如此残酷。”她聚拢过来，露出诚恳、友善的微笑，然后伸出了手。她的头发是金色的，而且不仅仅是她的头发；因为如果她的脸颊是粉红色的，眼睛是蓝色的，那就像是静止的玫瑰色早晨的天空，到处都闪烁着耀眼的金光。

At once kindled by her flame, I said to myself that this was a child who when in love grew shy, that it was for my sake, from love for me that she had remained with us, despite Albertine’s rebuffs, and that she must have rejoiced in the opportunity to confess to me at last, by that smiling, friendly gaze, that she would be as kind to me as she was terrible to other people. Doubtless she had noticed me on the beach, when I still knew nothing of her, and had been thinking of me ever since; perhaps it had been to win my admiration that she mocked at the old gentleman, and because she had not succeeded in getting to know me that on the following days she appeared so morose. From the hotel I had often seen her, in the evenings, walking by herself on the beach. Probably in the hope of meeting me. And now, hindered as much by Albertine’s presence as she would have been by that of the whole band, she had evidently attached herself to us, braving the increasing coldness of her friend’s attitude, only in the hope of outstaying her, of being left alone with me, when she might make an appointment with me for some time when she would find an excuse to slip away without either her family’s or her friends’ knowing that she had gone, and would meet me in some safe place before church or after golf. It was all the more difficult to see her because Andrée had quarrelled with her and now detested her. ‘I have put up far too long with her terrible dishonesty,’ she explained to me, ‘her baseness; I can’t tell you all the vile insults she has heaped on me. I have stood it all because of the others. But her latest effort was really too much!’ And she told me of some foolish thing that this girl had done, which might indeed have injurious consequences to Andrée herself.
我立刻被她的火焰点燃，对自己说，这是一个恋爱时变得害羞的孩子，她是为了我，出于对我的爱，才不顾阿尔贝蒂娜的拒绝，留在我们身边，而且她一定是她很高兴终于有机会用那微笑、友善的目光向我坦白，她对我很友善，就像她对其他人很糟糕一样。毫无疑问，当我对她一无所知时，她就在海滩上注意到了我，从那时起她就一直在想念我。也许她是为了赢得我的钦佩，才嘲笑那位老先生，也因为她没有成功地了解我，所以接下来的日子里，她显得那么闷闷不乐。晚上，我经常在旅馆里看到她独自在海滩上散步。大概是希望能遇见我吧。现在，阿尔贝蒂娜的出现和整个乐队的出现都对她造成了阻碍，她显然已经依附于我们，冒着她朋友日益冷淡的态度，只希望能比她待得更久，独自一人。和我在一起，她可能会和我约一段时间，她会找个借口溜走，而她的家人或朋友都不知道她已经走了，并会在教堂前或打高尔夫球后在某个安全的地方与我见面。见到她更加困难，因为安德烈和她吵过架，现在又讨厌她。 “我已经忍受她可怕的不诚实行为太久了，”她向我解释道，“她的卑鄙；我无法告诉你她对我进行的所有卑鄙侮辱。因为其他人，我才忍受了这一切。但她最近的努力实在是太多了！”她告诉我这个女孩做了一些愚蠢的事情，这确实可能会给安德烈本人带来有害的后果。

But those private words promised me by Gisèle’s confiding eyes for the moment when Albertine should have left us by ourselves, were destined never to be spoken, because after Albertine, stubbornly planted between us, had answered with increasing curtness, and finally had ceased to respond at all to her friend’s remarks, Gisèle at length abandoned the attempt and turned back. I found fault with Albertine for having been so disagreeable. ‘It will teach her to be more careful how she behaves. She’s not a bad kid, but she’d talk the head off a donkey. She’s no business, either, to go poking her nose into everything. Why should she fasten herself on to us without being asked? In another minute, I’d have told her to go to blazes. Besides I can’t stand her going about with her hair like that; it’s such bad form.’ I gazed at Albertine’s cheeks as she spoke, and asked myself what might be the perfume, the taste of them: this time they were not cool, but glowed with a uniform pink, violet-tinted, creamy, like certain roses whose petals have a waxy gloss. I felt a passionate longing for them such as one feels sometimes for a particular flower. ‘I hadn’t noticed it,’ was all that I said. ‘You stared at her hard enough; anyone would have said you wanted to paint her portrait,’ she scolded, not at all softened by the fact that it was at herself that I was now staring so fixedly. ‘I don’t believe you would care for her, all the same. She’s not in the least a flirt. You like little girls who flirt with you, I know. Anyhow, she won’t have another chance of fastening on to us and being sent about her business; she’s going off to-day to Paris.’ ‘Are the rest of your friends going too?’ ‘No; only she and ‘Miss,’ because she’s got an exam, coming; she’s got to stay at home and swot for it, poor kid. It’s not much fun for her, I don’t mind telling you. Of course, you may be set a good subject, you never know. But it’s a tremendous risk. One girl I know was asked: Describe an accident that you have witnessed. That was a piece of luck. But I know another girl who got: State which you would rather have as a friend, Alceste or Philinte. I’m sure I should have dried up altogether! Apart from everything else, it’s not a question to set to girls. Girls go about with other girls; they’re not supposed to have gentlemen friends.’ (This announcement, which shewed that I had but little chance of being admitted to the companionship of the band, froze my blood.) ‘But in any case, supposing it was set to boys, what on earth would you expect them to say to a question like that? Several parents wrote to the Gaulois, to complain of the difficult questions that were being set. The joke of it is that in a collection of prize-winning essays they gave two which treated the question in absolutely opposite ways. You see, it all depends on which examiner you get. One would like you to say that Philinte was a flatterer and a scoundrel, the other that you couldn’t help admiring Alceste, but that he was too cantankerous, and that as a friend you ought to choose Philinte. How can you expect a lot of unfortunate candidates to know what to say when the professors themselves can’t make up their minds. But that’s nothing. They get more difficult every year. Gisèle will want all her wits about her if she’s to get through.’ I returned to the hotel. My grandmother was not there. I waited for her for some time; when at last she appeared, I begged her to allow me, in quite unexpected circumstances, to make an expedition which might keep me away for a couple of days. I had luncheon with her, ordered a carriage and drove to the station. Gisèle would shew no surprise at seeing me there. After we had changed at Doncières, in the. Paris train, there would be a carriage with a corridor, along which, while the governess dozed, I should be able to lead Gisèle into dark corners, and make an appointment to meet her on my return to Paris, which I would then try to put forward to the earliest possible date. I would travel with her as far as Caen or Evreux, whichever she preferred, and would take the next train back to Balbec. And yet, what would she have thought of me had she known that I had hesitated for a long time between her and her friends, that quite as much as with her I had contemplated falling in love with Albertine, with the bright-eyed girl, with Rosemonde. I felt a pang of remorse now that a bond of mutual affection was going to unite me with Gisèle. I could, moreover, truthfully have assured her that Albertine no longer interested me. I had seen her that morning as she swerved aside, almost turning her back on me, to speak to Gisèle. On her head, which was bent sullenly over her bosom, the hair that grew at the back, different from and darker even than the rest, shone as though she had just been bathing. ‘Like a dying duck in a thunderstorm!’ I thought to myself, this view of her hair having let into Albertine’s body a soul entirely different from that implied hitherto by her glowing complexion and mysterious gaze. That shining cataract of hair at the back of her head had been for a moment or two all that I was able to see of her, and continued to be all that I saw in retrospect. Our memory is like a shop in the window of which is exposed now one, now another photograph of the same person. And as a rule the most recent exhibit remains for some time the only one to be seen. While the coachman whipped on his horse I sat there listening to the words of gratitude and affection which Gisèle was murmuring in my ear, born, all of them, of her friendly smile and outstretched hand, the fact being that in those periods of my life in which I was not actually, but desired to be in love, I carried in my mind not only an ideal form of beauty once seen, which I recognised at a glance in every passing stranger who kept far enough from me for her confused features to resist any attempt at identification, but also the moral phantom—ever ready to be incarnate—of the woman who was ‘going to fall in love with me, to take up her cues in the amorous comedy which I had had written out in my mind from my earliest boyhood, and in which every nice girl seemed to me to be equally desirous of playing, provided that she had also some of the physical qualifications required. In this play, whoever the new star might be whom I invited to create or to revive the leading part, the plot, the incidents, the lines themselves preserved an unalterable form.
然而，当阿尔贝蒂娜本该离开我们时，吉赛尔那双充满信任的眼睛向我许诺的那些私下的话却注定永远不会说出来，因为阿尔贝蒂娜固执地夹在我们中间，回答得越来越简短，最后不再回答。吉赛尔完全不顾朋友的评论，最终放弃了这一尝试，转身返回。我责怪阿尔贝蒂娜如此令人讨厌。 “这会教会她更加小心自己的行为。她不是个坏孩子，但她却能把驴子说得头破血流。她也无权去探究一切。为什么她不经询问就将自己固定在我们身上？再过一分钟，我就会告诉她去吧。此外，我无法忍受她留着这样的头发。阿尔贝蒂娜说话时，我凝视着她的脸颊，问自己这可能是什么香水，它们的味道：这次它们不冷，而是泛着均匀的粉红色、紫罗兰色、奶油色，就像某些玫瑰的花瓣具有蜡状光泽。我对它们怀有一种强烈的渴望，就像有时对一朵特定的花的渴望一样。 “我没有注意到，”我只说了这么一句话。 “你盯着她看的够仔细了；任何人都会说你想画她的肖像，”她斥责道，我现在如此专注地盯着她自己，这一事实并没有让她软化。 “尽管如此，我还是不相信你会关心她。她一点也不调情。我知道你喜欢和你调情的小女孩。无论如何，她不会再有机会依附于我们并被派去处理她的事务了； “你其他朋友也去吗？她今天要去巴黎。”' '不;只有她和‘小姐’，因为她要考试了；她必须待在家里，为之奋斗，可怜的孩子。我不介意告诉你，这对她来说没什么乐趣。当然，你可能会被设定一个好主题，你永远不知道。但这是一个巨大的风险。我认识的一个女孩被问到：描述一下你目睹的一场事故。那是一件幸运的事。但我认识另一个女孩，她得到了： 说明你更愿意将哪一个作为朋友，Alceste 或 Philinte。我确信我应该完全干涸！抛开其他一切不谈，这不是一个可以向女孩提出的问题。女孩们和其他女孩在一起；他们不应该有绅士朋友。”（这个公告表明我几乎没有机会被接纳为乐队的同伴，我的血液都冻结了。）“但无论如何，假设它被设置为男孩，你到底希望他们对这样的问题说什么？一些家长写信给高卢夫妇，抱怨所提出的难题。有趣的是，在一本获奖论文集中，他们给出了两篇以完全相反的方式处理这个问题的论文。你看，这完全取决于你遇到的考官。一个想让你说菲林特是个阿谀奉承者，一个无赖，另一个让你忍不住钦佩阿尔塞斯特，但他太脾气暴躁，作为朋友你应该选择菲林特。当教授们自己都拿不定主意时，你怎么能指望很多不幸的候选人知道该说什么。但那不算什么。他们一年比一年困难。如果吉赛尔想要渡过难关，她会拼尽全力。”我回到酒店。我的祖母不在那儿。 我等了她一会儿；当她终于出现时，我恳求她允许我在非常意外的情况下进行一次探险，这可能会让我离开几天。我和她一起吃了午饭，订了一辆马车，开往车站。吉赛尔看到我在那里并没有表现出惊讶。我们在Doncières换了衣服之后，在。巴黎的火车上，会有一辆带有走廊的车厢，沿着走廊，当家庭女教师打瞌睡时，我应该能够带领吉赛尔进入黑暗的角落，并预约在我返回巴黎时与她见面，然后我会尽力去见她。提出尽可能早的日期。我会和她一起旅行到卡昂或埃夫勒，无论她喜欢哪一个，然后乘坐下一班火车返回巴尔贝克。然而，如果她知道我在她和她的朋友之间犹豫了很长时间，我也曾考虑过爱上阿尔贝蒂娜，爱上那个眼睛明亮的女孩，她会怎么看我呢？与罗斯蒙德。现在我感到一阵悔恨，因为相互感情的纽带将把我和吉赛尔结合在一起。而且，我可以如实地向她保证，我对阿尔贝蒂娜不再感兴趣。那天早上我看到她突然转向一边，几乎背对着我，去和吉赛尔说话。她闷闷不乐地垂在胸前的头上，长在后面的头发与其他地方不同，甚至比其他地方颜色更深，闪闪发亮，就像刚洗过澡一样。 “就像雷雨中一只垂死的鸭子！”我心里想，她的头发让阿尔贝蒂娜的身体注入了一个与她容光焕发的肤色和神秘的目光所暗示的灵魂完全不同的灵魂。 她后脑勺那一头闪亮的白内障头发曾有一两分钟是我能看到的她的全部，现在回想起来，这仍然是我看到的她的全部。我们的记忆就像一家商店，橱窗里时而展示一张，时而展示另一张同一个人的照片。一般来说，最近的展览在一段时间内仍然是唯一可供参观的展览。当车夫鞭策他的马时，我坐在那儿，听着吉赛尔在我耳边低声诉说的感激和爱意之言，所有这些都是源于她友好的微笑和伸出的手，事实是，在我生命的那些时期我实际上并没有恋爱，但渴望恋爱，我的脑海里不仅有一种曾经见过的理想的美丽形式，我一眼就认出了每一个路过的陌生人，他们离我足够远，让她混乱的面容变得模糊。抵制任何认同的尝试，但也抵制道德幻影——随时准备化身——那个“将要爱上我，在我已经在脑海中写下的爱情喜剧中接受她的暗示”的女人从我很小的时候起，在我看来，每个漂亮的女孩都同样渴望玩耍，只要她也具备一些所需的身体条件。这部剧里，无论我邀请谁来创作或复活主角，情节、事件、台词本身都保持着一种不变的形式。

Within the next few days, in spite of the reluctance that Albertine had shewn from introducing me to them, I knew all the little band of that first afternoon (except Gisèle, whom, owing to a prolonged delay at the level crossing by the station and a change in the time-table, I had not succeeded in meeting on the train, which had been gone some minutes before I arrived, and to whom as it happened I never gave another thought), and two or three other girls as well to whom at my request they introduced me. And thus, my expectation of the pleasure which I should find in a new girl springing from another girl through whom I had come to know her, the latest was like one of those new varieties of rose which gardeners get by using first a rose of another kind. And as I passed from blossom to blossom along this flowery chain, the pleasure of knowing one that was different would send me back to her to whom I was indebted for it, with a gratitude in which desire was mingled fully as much as in my new expectation. Presently I was spending all my time among these girls.
在接下来的几天里，尽管阿尔贝蒂娜不愿意把我介绍给他们，但我还是认识了第一天下午那一小群人（除了吉赛尔，她由于在车站平交道口耽误了很长时间，时刻表有变，我没能在火车上见面，火车在我到达前几分钟就已经开走了，碰巧我再也没有想到过她），还有另外两三个女孩应我的要求，他们介绍了我。因此，我对从另一个女孩那里诞生的新女孩的期望，我是通过她认识她的，最新的就像是园丁们通过首先使用另一种玫瑰而获得的新品种玫瑰之一。种类。当我沿着这条花链从一朵花走到另一朵花时，认识一朵不同的花的快乐会让我回到我所感激的她身边，带着感激之情，其中的欲望与我的新花一样充分地混合在一起。期待。目前我所有的时间都在这些女孩中间度过。

Alas! in the freshest flower it is possible to discern those just perceptible signs which to the instructed mind indicate already what will be, by the desiccation or fructification of the flesh that is to-day in bloom, the ultimate form, immutable and already predestinate, of the autumnal seed. The eye rapturously follows a nose like a wavelet that deliriously curls the water’s face at daybreak and seems not to move, to be capturable by the pencil, because the sea is so calm then that one does not notice its tidal flow. Human faces seem not to change while we are looking at them, because the revolution which they perform is too slow for us to perceive it. But we have only to see, by the side of any of those girls, her mother or her aunt, to realise the distance over which, obeying the gravitation of a type that is, generally speaking, deplorable, her features will have travelled in less than thirty years, and must continue to travel until the sunset hour, until her face, having vanished altogether below the horizon, catches the light no more. I knew that, as deep, as ineluctable as is their Jewish patriotism or Christian atavism in those who imagine themselves to be the most emancipated of their race, there dwelt beneath the rosy inflorescence of Albertine, Rosemonde, Andrée, unknown to themselves, held in reserve until the circumstances should arise, a coarse nose, a protruding jaw, a bust that would create a sensation when it appeared, but was actually in the wings, ready to ‘come on,’ just as it might be a burst of Dreyfusism, or clericalism, sudden, unforeseen, fatal, some patriotic, some feudal form of heroism emerging suddenly when the circumstances demand it from a nature anterior to that of the man himself, by means of which he thinks, lives, evolves, gains strength himself or dies, without ever being able to distinguish that nature from the successive phases which in turn he takes for it. Even mentally, we depend a great deal more than we think upon natural laws, and our mind possesses already, like some cryptogamous plant, every little peculiarity that we imagine ourselves to be selecting. For we can see only the derived ideas, without detecting the primary cause (Jewish blood, French birth or whatever it may be) that inevitably produced them, and which at a given moment we expose. And perhaps, while the former appear to us to be the result of deliberate thought, the latter that of an imprudent disregard for our own health, we take from our family, as the papilionaceae take the form of their seed, as well the ideas by which we live as the malady from which we shall die.
唉!在最新鲜的花朵中，我们可以辨别出那些可感知的迹象，对于受过教育的心灵来说，这些迹象已经表明，通过今天盛开的果肉的干燥或结果，最终的形式，不变的和已经注定的，秋天的种子。眼睛欣喜若狂地追随鼻子，就像小波一样，在黎明时分疯狂地卷曲水面，似乎一动不动，可以用铅笔捕捉到，因为当时的大海是如此平静，人们没有注意到它的潮汐流动。当我们看着人的时候，他们的面孔似乎没有变化，因为他们所进行的革命太慢了，我们无法察觉。但我们只需看看，在这些女孩中的任何一个，她的母亲或她的姑妈身边，就能意识到，在服从一种一般来说是可悲的类型的引力的情况下，她的容貌将在更短的时间内移动多远。三十多年了，她必须继续旅行，直到日落时分，直到她的脸完全消失在地平线以下，再也见不到阳光。 我知道，在阿尔贝蒂娜、罗斯蒙德、安德烈的玫瑰色花序下，隐藏着深沉而不可避免的犹太爱国主义或基督教返祖主义，这些人自以为是自己种族中最解放的人，但他们自己并不知道，他们在保留到情况出现为止，粗鼻子，突出的下巴，半身像出现时会引起轰动，但实际上是在翅膀上，准备“上场”，就像德雷福斯主义的爆发一样，或教权主义，突然的，不可预见的，致命的，某种爱国的，某种封建形式的英雄主义突然出现，当环境要求它来自先于人本身的本性时，他通过这种方式思考，生活，进化，获得力量自己或死后，却无法将这种性质与他所采取的连续阶段区分开来。即使在精神上，我们对自然法则的依赖也比我们想象的要多得多，而且我们的思想已经像某种隐花植物一样，拥有我们想象自己正在选择的每一个小特性。因为我们只能看到派生的想法，而没有发现不可避免地产生这些想法的主要原因（犹太血统、法国血统或其他可能是什么），并且在特定时刻我们将其暴露出来。也许，虽然前者在我们看来是深思熟虑的结果，后者是对我们自己健康的轻率漠视的结果，但我们从我们的家庭那里汲取了一些想法，就像蝶形花科植物以种子的形式一样，我们所生活的疾病就像我们将死于的疾病一样。

As on a plant whose flowers open at different seasons, I had seen, expressed in the form of old ladies, on this Balbec shore, those shrivelled seed-pods, those flabby tubers which my friends would one day be. But what matter? For the moment it was their flowering-time. And so when Mme. de Villeparisis asked me to drive with her I sought an excuse to be prevented. I never went to see Elstir unless accompanied by my new friends. I could not even spare an afternoon to go to Doncières, to pay the visit I had promised Saint-Loup. Social engagements, serious discussions, even a friendly conversation, had they usurped the place allotted to my walks with these girls, would have had the same effect on me as if, when the luncheon bell rang, I had been taken not to a table spread with food but to turn the pages of an album. The men, the youths, the women, old or mature, whose society we suppose that we shall enjoy, are borne by us only on an unsubstantial plane surface, because we are conscious of them only by visual perception restricted to its own limits; whereas it is as delegates from our other senses that our eyes dart towards young girls; the senses follow, one after another, in search of the various charms, fragrant, tactile, savoury, which they thus enjoy even without the aid of fingers and lips; and able, thanks to the art of transposition, the genius for synthesis in which desire excels, to reconstruct beneath the hue of cheeks or bosom the feel, the taste, the contact that is forbidden them, they give to these girls the same honeyed consistency as they create when they stand rifling the sweets of a rose-garden, or before a vine whose clusters their eyes alone devour.
就像在不同季节开花的植物一样，我在巴尔贝克海岸上以老妇人的形式看到了那些枯萎的豆荚，那些松软的块茎，有一天我的朋友们也会变成这样。但又有什么关系呢？眼下正是它们的花期。所以当女士。德维尔帕里西斯让我和她一起开车，我找了个借口被阻止。除非有我的新朋友陪同，否则我从不去看埃尔斯蒂尔。我什至抽不出一个下午的时间去东西埃，去拜访我答应过的圣卢。社交活动、严肃的讨论，甚至是友好的谈话，如果它们侵占了我和这些女孩一起散步的空间，对我的影响就好像当午餐钟声响起时，我没有被带到餐桌旁一样与食物，但翻相册的页面。我们认为我们应该享受他们的社会的男人、青年、女人，无论是老人还是成熟的人，都只是在一个非实体的平面上被我们所承载，因为我们只能通过仅限于其自身界限的视觉感知来意识到他们；然而，作为我们其他感官的代表，我们的目光却投向了年轻的女孩；感官一个接一个地跟随，寻找各种魅力，芳香的、触觉的、咸味的，即使没有手指和嘴唇的帮助，他们也能享受这些魅力。凭借换位的艺术，以及欲望所擅长的综合天才，她们能够在脸颊或胸部的色调下重建被禁止的感觉、味道和接触，她们赋予这些女孩同样甜蜜的一致性正如他们站在玫瑰园里扫糖果时所创造的那样，或者当他们站在一棵藤蔓前时所创造的，而藤蔓的簇只有他们的眼睛吞噬着。

If it rained, although the weather had no power to daunt Albertine, who was often to be seen in her waterproof spinning on her bicycle through the driving showers, we would Spend the day in the Casino, where on such days it would have seemed to me impossible not to go. I had the greatest contempt for the young Ambresacs, who had never set foot in it. And I willingly joined my friends in playing tricks on the dancing master. As a rule we had to listen to admonition from the manager, or from some of his staff, usurping dictatorial powers, because my friends, even Andrée herself, whom on that account I had regarded when I first saw her as so dionysiac a creature, whereas in reality she was delicate, intellectual, and this year far from well, in spite of which her actions were controlled less by the state of her health than by the spirit of that age which overcomes every other consideration and confounds in a general gaiety the weak with the strong, could not enter the outer hall of the rooms without starting to run, jumping over all the chairs, sliding back along the floor, their balance maintained by a graceful poise of their outstretched arms, singing the while, mingling all the arts, in that first bloom of youth, in the manner of those poets of ancient days for whom the different ‘kinds’ were not yet separate, so that in an epic poem they would introduce rules of agriculture with theological doctrine.
如果下雨，尽管天气无法吓倒阿尔贝蒂娜，人们经常看到她骑着她的防水自行车穿过阵雨，但我们会在赌场度过一天，在这样的日子里，那里似乎我不可能不去。我对年轻的安布雷萨克怀有极大的蔑视，因为他们从未涉足过这里。我也心甘情愿地和朋友们一起捉弄舞蹈大师。通常，我们必须听取经理或他的一些员工的警告，篡夺独裁权力，因为我的朋友们，甚至安德烈本人，因此，当我第一次看到她时，我就将她视为如此酒神般的生物，而事实上，她是个娇弱、聪明的人，今年的情况也很不好，尽管如此，她的行为更多的是受那个时代精神的控制，而不是她的健康状况，这种精神压倒了所有其他考虑因素，并在普遍的欢乐中混淆了这一点。弱者与强者，进入房间的外厅就开始奔跑，跳过所有的椅子，沿着地板向后滑行，他们的平衡靠伸出的手臂保持优雅的姿势，一边唱歌，一边与所有的人混合在一起。艺术，在青春的第一次绽放中，以那些古代诗人的方式，对他们来说，不同的“种类”还没有分开，因此他们会在一首史诗中引入带有神学教义的农业规则。

This Andrée who had struck me when I first saw them as the coldest of them all, was infinitely more refined, more loving, more sensitive than Albertine, to whom she displayed the caressing, gentle affection of an elder sister. At the Casino she would come across the floor to sit down by me, and knew instinctively, unlike Albertine, to refuse my invitation to dance, or even, if I was tired, to give up the Casino and come to me instead at the hotel. She expressed her friendship for me, for Albertine, in terms which were evidence of the most exquisite understanding of the things of the heart, which may have been partly due to the state of her health. She had always a merry smile of excuse for the childish behaviour of Albertine, who expressed with a crude violence the irresistible temptation held out to her by the parties and picnics to which she had not the sense, like Andrée, resolutely to prefer staying and talking with me. When the time came for her to go off to a luncheon party at the golf-club, if we were all three together she would get ready to leave us, then, coming up to Andrée: ‘Well, Andrée, what are you waiting for now? You know we are lunching at the golf-club.’ ‘No; I’m going to stay and talk to him,’ replied Andrée, pointing to me. ‘But you know, Mme. Durieux invited you,’ cried Albertine, as if Andree’s intention to remain with me could be explained only by ignorance on her part where else and by whom she had been bidden. ‘Look here, my good girl, don’t be such an idiot,’ Andrée chid her. Albertine did not insist, fearing a suggestion that she too should stay with me. She tossed her head. ‘Just as you like,’ was her answer, uttered in the tone one uses to an invalid whose self-indulgence is killing him by inches, ‘I must fly; I’m sure your watch is slow,’ and off she went. ‘She is a dear girl, but quite impossible,’ said Andrée, bathing her friend in a smile at once caressing and critical. If in this craze for amusement Albertine might be said to echo something of the old original Gilberte, that is because a certain similarity exists, although the type evolves, between all the women we love, a similarity that is due to the fixity of our own temperament, which it is that chooses them, eliminating all those who would not be at once our opposite and our complement, fitted that is to say to gratify our senses and to wring our heart. They are, these women, a product of our temperament, an image inversely projected, a negative of our sensibility. So that a novelist might, in relating the life of his hero, describe his successive love-affairs in almost exactly similar terms, and thereby give the impression not that he was repeating himself but that he was creating, since an artificial novelty is never so effective as a repetition that manages to suggest a fresh truth. He ought, moreover, to indicate in the character of the lover a variability which becomes apparent as the story moves into fresh regions, into different latitudes of life. And perhaps he would be stating yet another truth if while investing all the other persons of his story with distinct characters he refrained from giving any to the beloved. We understand the characters of people who do not interest us; how can we ever grasp that of a person who is an intimate part of our existence, whom after a little we no longer distinguish in any way from ourselves, whose motives provide us with an inexhaustible supply of anxious hypotheses which we perpetually reconstruct. Springing from somewhere beyond our understanding, our curiosity as to the woman whom we love overleaps the bounds of that woman’s character, which we might if we chose but probably will not choose to stop and examine. The object of our uneasy investigation is something more essential than those details of character comparable to the tiny particles of epidermis whose varied combinations form the florid originality of human flesh. Our intuitive radiography pierces them, and the images which it photographs for us, so far from being those of any single face, present rather the joyless universality of a skeleton.
当我第一次见到她们时，我就觉得这个安德烈是她们中最冷漠的一个，她比阿尔贝蒂娜更加文雅、更加可爱、更加敏感，她对阿​​尔贝蒂娜表现出一种姐姐般的爱抚和温柔的感情。在赌场，她会穿过地板在我身边坐下，与阿尔贝蒂娜不同，她本能地知道要拒绝我的跳舞邀请，甚至，如果我累了，她会放弃赌场，到酒店来找我。 。她表达了对我、对阿尔贝蒂娜的友谊，所用的语言证明了她对内心事物的最敏锐的理解，这可能部分归因于她的健康状况。她总是对阿尔贝蒂娜的幼稚行为微笑着为她辩解，阿尔贝蒂娜粗鲁地表达了聚会和野餐对她的不可抗拒的诱惑，而她却没有像安德烈那样坚决地选择留下来聊天。与我一起。当她要去高尔夫俱乐部参加午餐聚会时，如果我们三个人一起，她就会准备离开我们，然后走到安德烈面前：“好吧，安德烈，你还在等什么”现在？你知道我们正在高尔夫俱乐部吃午饭。”我要留下来和他谈谈。”安德烈指着我回答道。 “但是你知道，夫人。杜里厄邀请了你，”阿尔贝蒂娜喊道，仿佛安德烈打算留在我身边，只能解释为她不知道她在其他地方，也不知道是谁邀请她的。 “听着，我的好女孩，别这么白痴，”安德烈责备她。阿尔贝蒂娜没有坚持，担心有人建议她也应该留在我身边。她摇摇头。 “随你的便，”她用一种对待自我放纵的病人的语气回答道，“我必须飞；我必须飞；我必须飞。”我确信你的表走慢了。”然后她就走了。 “她是一个可爱的女孩，但完全不可能，”安德烈说，对她的朋友微笑着，既爱抚又批评。如果在这种娱乐热潮中，阿尔贝蒂娜可以说是与古老的希尔贝特相呼应，那是因为我们所爱的所有女人之间虽然类型不断演变，但仍然存在一定的相似性，这种相似性是由于我们自己的固定性而产生的。正是气质选择了他们，排除了所有那些既不适合我们的对立面又不适合我们的人，即满足我们的感官并折磨我们的心灵。这些女人是我们气质的产物，是我们反向投射的形象，是我们情感的负片。因此，小说家在讲述主人公的生活时，可能会用几乎完全相同的术语描述他连续不断的爱情故事，从而给人留下这样的印象：他不是在重复自己，而是在创造，因为人为的新奇从来都不是如此。有效的重复能够暗示一个新的事实。此外，他应该在情人的性格中指出一种变化，当故事进入新的领域、进入生活的不同纬度时，这种变化就会变得明显。如果他在为他的故事中的所有其他人赋予独特的性格时，如果他不向所爱的人赋予任何特征，也许他会陈述另一个事实。 我们了解那些我们不感兴趣的人的性格；我们如何才能理解一个人的存在，他是我们存在的亲密组成部分，过了一会儿，我们就不再以任何方式将他与我们自己区分开来，他的动机为我们提供了无穷无尽的焦虑假设，我们不断地重建这些假设。我们对所爱的女人的好奇心源于我们无法理解的地方，超越了她性格的界限，如果我们选择，我们可能会这样做，但可能不会选择停下来审视。我们不安的调查对象是比那些类似于表皮微小颗粒的性格细节更重要的东西，它们的不同组合形成了人类肉体的绚丽原创性。我们直觉的射线照相术穿透了它们，它为我们拍摄的图像远不是任何单一面孔的图像，而是呈现出骷髅的无趣的普遍性。

Andrée, being herself extremely rich while the other was penniless and an orphan, with real generosity lavished on Albertine the full benefit of her wealth. As for her feelings towards Gisèle, they were not quite what I had been led to suppose. News soon reached us of the young student, and when Albertine handed round the letter she had received, a letter intended by Gisèle to give an account of her journey and to report her safe arrival to the little band, pleading laziness as an excuse for not having written yet to the rest, I was surprised to hear Andrée (for I imagined an irreparable breach between them) say: ‘I shall write to her to-morrow, because if I wait for her to write I may have to wait for years, she’s such a slacker.’ And, turning to myself, she added: ‘You saw nothing much in her, evidently; but she’s a jolly nice girl, and besides I’m really very fond of her.’ From which I concluded that Andrée’s quarrels were apt not to last very long.
安德烈本人非常富有，而对方却身无分文，还是个孤儿，她非常慷慨地把她的财富的全部利益慷慨地赐给了阿尔贝蒂娜。至于她对吉赛尔的感情，并不完全是我想象的那样。我们很快就收到了这位年轻学生的消息，当阿尔贝蒂娜把她收到的信递给我们时，吉赛尔打算在这封信中讲述她的旅程，并向小乐队报告她的安全抵达，并以懒惰为借口不去。在给其他人写信之后，我惊讶地听到安德烈（因为我想象他们之间存在不可挽回的裂痕）说：“我明天就会写信给她，因为如果我等她写信，我可能要等很多年，她真是个懒鬼。”然后，她转过头对自己补充道：“显然，你在她身上没有看到什么；但她是一个非常好的女孩，而且我真的很喜欢她。”由此我得出结论，安德烈的争吵不会持续很长时间。

Except on these rainy days, as we had always arranged to go on our bicycles along the cliffs, or on an excursion inland, an hour or so before it was time to start I would go upstairs to make myself smart and would complain if Françoise had not laid out all the things that I wanted. Now even in Paris she would proudly, angrily straighten a back which the years had begun to bend, at the first word of reproach, she so humble, she so modest and charming when her self-esteem was flattered. As this was the mainspring of her life: her satisfaction, her good humour were in direct ratio to the difficulty of the tasks imposed on her. Those which she had to perform at Balbec were so easy that she shewed almost all the time a discontent which was suddenly multiplied an hundredfold, with the addition of an ironic air of offended dignity when I complained, on my way down to join my friends, that my hat had not been brushed or my ties sorted. She who was capable of taking such endless pains, without in consequence assuming that she had done anything at all, on my simply remarking that a coat was not in its proper place, not only did she boast of the care with which she had ‘put it past sooner than let it go gathering the dust,’ but, paying a formal tribute to her own labours, lamented that it was little enough of a holiday that she was getting at Balbec, and that we would not find another person in the whole world who would consent to put up with such treatment. ‘I can’t think how anyone can leave things lying about the way you do; you just try and get anyone else to find what you want in such a mix-up. The devil himself would give it up as a bad job.’ Or else she would adopt a regal mien, scorching me with her fiery glance, and preserve a silence that was broken as soon as she had fastened the door behind her and was outside in the passage, which would then reverberate with utterances which I guessed to be insulting, though they remained as indistinct as those of characters in a play whose opening lines are spoken in the wings, before they appear on the stage. And even if nothing was missing and Françoise was in a good temper, still she made herself quite intolerable when I was getting ready to go out with my friends. For, drawing upon a store of stale witticisms at their expense which, in my need to be talking about the girls, I had made in her hearing, she put on an air of being about to reveal to me things of which I should have known more than she had there been any truth in her statements, which there never was, Françoise having misunderstood what she had heard. She had, like most people, her own ways; a person is never like a straight highway, but surprises us with the strange, unavoidable windings of his course through life, by which, though some people may not notice them, we find it a perpetual annoyance to be stopped and hindered. Whenever I arrived at the stage of ‘Where is my hat?’ or uttered the name of Andrée or Albertine, I was forced by Françoise to stray into endless and absurd side-tracks which greatly delayed my progress. So too when I asked her to cut me the sandwiches of cheese or salad, or sent her out for the cakes which I was to eat while we rested on the cliffs, sharing them with the girls, and which the girls ‘might very well have taken turns to provide, if they had not been so close,’ declared Françoise, to whose aid there came at such moments a whole heritage of atavistic peasant rapacity and coarseness, and for whom one would have said that the soul of her late enemy Eulalie had been broken into fragments and reincarnate, more attractively than it had ever been in Saint-Eloi’s, in the charming bodies of my friends of the little band. I listened to these accusations with a dull fury at finding myself brought to a standstill at one of those places beyond which the well-trodden country path that was Françoise’s character became impassable, though fortunately never for very long. Then, my hat or coat found and the sandwiches ready, I sailed out to find Albertine, Andrée, Rosemonde, and any others there might be, and on foot or on our bicycles we would start.
除了在这些下雨天，因为我们总是安排骑自行车沿着悬崖，或者去内陆游览，在出发前一个小时左右，我会上楼让自己聪明起来，如果弗朗索瓦丝有的话，我会抱怨没有列出我想要的所有东西。现在，即使在巴黎，只要听到第一句责备的话，她就会骄傲地、愤怒地挺直岁月已经开始弯曲的脊背，当她的自尊心受到奉承时，她是那么谦虚，她是那么谦虚和迷人。因为这是她生活的主要动力：她的满足感、她的幽默感与她所承担的任务的难度成正比。她在巴尔贝克必须表演的那些戏是如此简单，以至于她几乎总是表现出一种不满，这种不满突然增加了一百倍，当我在下楼去见朋友的路上抱怨时，她还带着一种被冒犯的讽刺神情，我的帽子没有刷过，领带没有整理好。她能够承受如此无尽的痛苦，而不会因此认为她做了任何事情，只要我简单地评论一件外套没有放在适当的位置，她不仅夸口说她“把衣服放得非常小心”。 ”但是，她向自己的劳动表示正式敬意，感叹她在巴尔贝克度过的假期还不够多，而且我们在整个过程中找不到另一个人世界上谁会同意忍受这种待遇。 “我想不出怎么会有人像你一样对事情撒谎；你只是试图让其他人在这样的混乱中找到你想要的东西。魔鬼本人也会认为这是一份糟糕的工作而放弃它。’否则她就会摆出一种王者风范，用她火热的目光灼烧着我，然后保持沉默，当她把门关在身后，走到外面的过道里时，这种沉默就被打破了，然后我猜想，这会回荡着一些话语。侮辱性的，尽管他们仍然像戏剧中的人物一样模糊，在他们出现在舞台上之前，他们的开场白是在侧翼说的。即使没有遗漏任何东西，而且弗朗索瓦丝的脾气也很好，但当我准备和朋友出去时，她仍然表现得很令人难以忍受。因为，在我需要谈论女孩们的时候，我在她的耳边说了一堆陈腐的俏皮话，以牺牲她们为代价，她装出一副要向我透露我应该知道的事情的样子。她的说法比她更真实，但事实并非如此，弗朗索瓦丝误解了她所听到的内容。和大多数人一样，她有自己的方式。一个人从来都不像一条笔直的高速公路，而是以他生命历程中奇怪的、不可避免的曲折让我们惊讶，尽管有些人可能没有注意到它们，但我们发现被阻止和阻碍是一种永久的烦恼。每当我到了“我的帽子在哪里？”的阶段，或者说出安德烈或阿尔贝蒂娜的名字时，我就被弗朗索瓦丝逼着走入无休无止的荒唐岔道，极大地耽误了我的进步。 当我请她给我切奶酪三明治或沙拉，或者派她去拿蛋糕时，我要在悬崖上休息时吃这些蛋糕，与女孩们分享，而女孩们很可能会吃这些蛋糕。轮流提供，如果他们不是那么接近的话，”弗朗索瓦丝宣称，在这种时刻，她的援助来自返祖农民的贪婪和粗俗，对她来说，人们会说她已故敌人尤拉莉的灵魂已经破碎成碎片并转世，比在圣埃洛伊的时候更有吸引力，在我的小乐队朋友们迷人的身体里。我听着这些指控，心中隐隐感到愤怒，因为我发现自己在其中一个地方陷入了停滞，弗朗索瓦丝饰演的那条人们常走的乡间小路就变得无法通行，不过幸运的是，这种情况并没有持续很长时间。然后，我找到了帽子或外套，三明治也准备好了，我就出发去寻找阿尔贝蒂娜、安德烈、罗斯蒙德，以及其他可能存在的人，然后步行或骑自行车出发。

In the old days I should have preferred our excursion to be made in bad weather. For then I still looked to find in Balbec the ‘Cimmerians’ land,’ and fine days were a thing that had no right to exist there, an intrusion of the vulgar summer of seaside holiday-makers into that ancient region swathed in eternal mist. But now, everything that I had hitherto despised, shut out of my field of vision, not only effects of sunlight upon sea and shore, but even the regattas, the race-meetings, I would have sought out with ardour, for the reason for which formerly I had wanted only stormy seas, which was that these were now associated in my mind, as the others had been, with an aesthetic idea. Because I had gone several times with my new friends to visit Elstir, and, on the days when the girls were there, what he had selected to shew us were drawings of pretty women in yachting dress, or else a sketch made on a race-course near Balbec. I had at first shyly admitted to Elstir that I had not felt inclined to go to the meetings that were being held there. ‘You were wrong,’ he told me, ‘it is such a pretty sight, and so well worth seeing. For one thing, that peculiar animal, the jockey, on whom so many eager eyes are fastened, who in the paddock there looks so grim, a colourless face between his brilliant jacket and cap, one body and soul with the prancing horse he rides, how interesting to analyse his professional movements, the bright splash of colour he makes, with the horse’s coat blending in it, as they stream down the course. What a transformation of every visible object in that luminous vastness of a racecourse where one is constantly surprised by fresh lights and shades which one sees only there. How charming the women can look there, too! The first day’s racing was quite delightful, and there were women there exquisitely dressed, in the misty light of a Dutch landscape, in which one could feel rising to cloud the sun itself the penetrating coldness of the water. Never have I seen women arriving in carriages, or standing with glasses to their eyes in so extraordinary a light, which was due, I suppose, to the moisture from the sea. I should simply have loved to paint it. I came home from the races quite mad, and so keen to get to work! ‘After which he became more enthusiastic still over the yacht-races, and I realised that regattas, social fixtures where well-dressed women might be seen bathed in the greenish light of a marine race-course, might be for a modern artist as interesting a subject as were the revels which they so loved to depict for a Veronese or Carpaccio. When I suggested this to Elstir, ‘Your comparison is all the more true,’ he replied, ‘since, from the position of the city in which they painted, those revels were to a great extent aquatic. Except that the beauty of the shipping in those days lay as a rule in its solidity, in the complication of its structure. They had water-tournaments, as we have here, held generally in honour of some Embassy, such as Carpaccio shews us in his Legend of Saint Ursula. The vessels were massive, built up like architecture, and seemed almost amphibious, like lesser Venices set in the heart of the greater, when, moored to the banks by hanging stages decked with crimson satin and Persian carpets, they bore their freight of ladies in cherry-red brocade and green damask close under the balconies incrusted with many-coloured marbles from which other ladies leaned to gaze at them, in gowns with black sleeves slashed with white, stitched with pearls or bordered with lace. You cannot tell where the land ends and the water begins, what is still the palace or already the vessel, the caravel, the galeas, the Bucintoro.’ Albertine had listened with the keenest interest to these details of costume, these visions of elegance that Elstir was describing to us. ‘Oh, I should so like to see that lace you speak of; it’s so pretty, the Venice-point,’ she cried. ‘Besides, I should love to see Venice.’ ‘You may, perhaps, before very long, be able,’ Elstir informed her, ‘to gaze upon the marvellous stuffs which they used to wear. Hitherto one has seen them only in the works of the Venetian painters, or very rarely among the treasures of old churches, except now and then when a specimen has come into the sale-room. But I hear that a Venetian artist, called Fortuny, has recovered the secret of the craft, and that before many years have passed women will be able to walk abroad, and better still to sit at home in brocades as sumptuous as those that Venice adorned, for her patrician daughters, with patterns brought from the Orient. But I don’t know that I should much care for that, that it wouldn’t be too much of an anachronism for the women of to-day, even when they parade at regattas, for, to return to our modern pleasure-craft, the times have completely changed since ‘Venice, Queen of the Adriatic.’ The great charm of a yacht, of the furnishings of a yacht, of yachting dress, is their simplicity, as just things for the sea, and I do so love the sea. I must confess to you that I prefer the fashions of to-day to those of Veronese’s and even of Carpaccio’s time. What there is so attractive about our yachts—and the smaller yachts especially, I don’t like the huge ones, they’re too much like ships; yachts are like women’s hats, you must keep within certain limits—is the unbroken surface, simple, gleaming, grey, which under a cloudy, leaden sky takes on a creamy softness. The cabin in which we live ought to make us think of a little café. And women’s clothes on board a yacht are the same sort of thing; what really are charming are those light garments, uniformly white, of cloth or linen or nankeen or drill, which in the sunlight and against the blue of the sea shew up with as dazzling a whiteness as a spread sail. You very seldom see a woman, for that matter, who knows how to dress, and yet some of them are quite wonderful. At the races, Mlle. Léa had a little white hat and a little white sunshade, simply enchanting. I don’t know what I wouldn’t give for that little sunshade.’ I should have liked very much to know in what respect this little sunshade differed from any other, and for other reasons, reasons of feminine vanity, Albertine was still more curious. But, just as Françoise used to explain the excellence of her soufflés by ‘It’s the way you do them,’ so here the difference lay in the cut. ‘It was,’ Elstir explained, ‘quite tiny, quite round, like a Chinese umbrella.’ I mentioned the sunshades carried by various ladies, but it was not like any of them. Elstir found them all quite hideous. A man of exquisite taste, singularly hard to please, he would isolate some minute detail which was the whole difference between what was worn by three-quarters of the women he saw, and horrified him, and a thing which enchanted him by its prettiness; and—in contrast to its effect on myself, whose mind any display of luxury at once sterilised—stimulated his desire to paint ‘so as to make something as attractive.’ ‘Here you see a young lady who has guessed what the hat and sunshade were like,’ he said to me, pointing to Albertine whose eyes shone with envy. ‘How I should love to be rich, to have a yacht!’ she said to the painter. ‘I should come to you to tell me how to run it. What lovely trips I’d take. And what fun it would be to go to Cowes for the races. And a motor-car! Tell me, do you think the ladies’ fashions for motoring pretty?’ ‘No”; replied Elstir, ‘but that will come in time. You see, there are very few firms at present, one or two only, Callot—although they go in rather too freely for lace—Doucet, Cheruit, Paquin sometimes. The others are all horrible.’ ‘Then, is there a vast difference between a Callot dress and one from any ordinary shop?’ I asked Albertine. ‘Why, an enormous difference, my little man! I beg your pardon! Only, alas! what you get for three hundred francs in an ordinary shop will cost two thousand there. But there can be no comparison; they look the same only to people who know nothing at all about it.’ ‘Quite so,’ put in Elstir; ‘though I should not go so far as to say that it is as profound as the difference between a statue from Rheims Cathedral and one from Saint-Augustin. By the way, talking of cathedrals,’ he went on, addressing himself exclusively to me, because what he was saying had reference to an earlier conversation in which the girls had not taken part, and which for that matter would not have interested them at all, ‘I spoke to you the other day of Balbec Church as a great cliff, a huge breakwater built of the stone of the country; now look at this”; he handed me a water-colour. ‘Look at these cliffs (it’s a sketch I did close to here, at the Creuniers); don’t these rocks remind you of a cathedral?’ And indeed one would have taken them for soaring red arches. But, painted on a roasting hot day, they seemed to have crumbled into dust, made volatile by the heat which had drunk up half the sea, distilled over the whole surface of the picture almost into a gaseous state. On this day on which the sunlight had, so to speak, destroyed reality, reality concentrated itself in certain dusky and transparent creatures which, by contrast, gave a more striking, a closer impression of life: the shadows. Ravening after coolness, most of them, deserting the scorched open spaces, had fled for shelter to the foot of the rocks, out of reach of the sun; others, swimming gently upon the tide, like dolphins, kept close under the sides of the moving vessels, whose hulls they extended upon the pale surface of the water with their glossy blue forms. It was perhaps the thirst for coolness which they conveyed that did most to give me the sensation of the heat of this day and made me exclaim how much I regretted not knowing the Creuniers. Albertine and Andrée were positive that I must have been there hundreds of times. If so I had been there without knowing it, never suspecting that one day the sight of these rocks was to inspire me with such a thirst for beauty, not perhaps exactly natural beauty such as I had been seeking hitherto among the cliffs of Balbec, but rather architectural. Above all, I who, having come here to visit the kingdom of the storm, had never found, on any of my drives with Mme. de Villeparisis, when often we saw it only from afar, painted in a gap between the trees, the ocean sufficiently real, sufficiently liquid, giving a sufficient impression that it was hurling its massed forces against the shore, and would have liked to see it lie motionless only under a wintry shroud of fog, I could never have believed that I should now be dreaming of a sea which was nothing more than a whitish vapour that had lost both consistency and colour. But of such a sea Elstir, like the people who sat musing on board those vessels drowsy with the heat, had so intensely felt the enchantment that he had succeeded in transcribing, in fixing for all time upon the painted sheet the imperceptible reflux of the tide, the throb of one happy moment; and one suddenly became so enamoured, at the sight of this magic portrait, that one could think of nothing else than to range the world over, seeking to recapture the vanished day in its instantaneous, slumbering beauty.
在过去，我宁愿我们的旅行在恶劣的天气下进行。那时我仍然在巴尔贝克寻找“西梅里安人的土地”，而美好的日子在那里是不存在的，是海边度假者的粗俗夏季侵入了那个笼罩在永恒薄雾中的古老地区。但现在，我迄今为止所鄙视的一切，都被排除在我的视野之外，不仅是阳光照射在大海和海岸上的效果，甚至是帆船赛、赛马会，我都会满怀热情地去寻找，因为以前我只想要波涛汹涌的大海，现在这些在我的脑海里和其他人一样与审美观念联系在一起。因为我和我的新朋友去过埃尔斯蒂尔好几次，而当女孩们在那里的时候，他选择给我们看的都是穿着游艇礼服的漂亮女人的画作，或者是在比赛中画的素描——当然在巴尔贝克附近。起初，我害羞地向埃尔斯蒂尔承认，我不想参加在那里举行的会议。 “你错了，”他告诉我，“这是如此美丽的景象，非常值得一看。”一方面，骑师这个奇特的动物，有那么多热切的目光注视着他，在围场里，他看上去那么冷酷，他那闪亮的夹克和帽子之间有一张毫无血色的脸，身体和灵魂与他骑着的跃马融为一体，分析他的专业动作是多么有趣，当他们沿着球场流淌时，他所发出的明亮的色彩与马的皮毛融为一体。在广阔的赛马场中，每一个可见的物体都发生了多么大的变化，人们不断地对只有在那里才能看到的新鲜的灯光和阴影感到惊讶。那里的女人看起来多么迷人啊！ 第一天的比赛相当令人愉快，在荷兰风景的朦胧光线下，那里有穿着精美的女士，人们可以感受到升起的太阳本身和水的刺骨的寒冷。我从来没有见过乘坐马车抵达的妇女，或者戴着眼镜站着的妇女，她们的眼睛呈现出如此非凡的光芒，我想，这是由于海水的潮湿所致。我应该只是喜欢画它。我从比赛回到家非常生气，非常渴望开始工作！ “此后，他对游艇比赛变得更加热情，我意识到，赛船会这种社交活动，可以看到穿着考究的女性沐浴在海洋赛马场的绿光下，对于现代艺术家来说可能同样有趣他们非常喜欢为委罗内塞或生牛肉片描绘狂欢的主题。当我向埃尔斯蒂尔提出这个建议时，“你的比较更真实，”他回答道，“因为，从他们绘画的城市的位置来看，那些狂欢在很大程度上是水生的。”只不过当时的航运之美通常在于其坚固性和结构的复杂性。他们举办水上锦标赛，就像我们在这里举办的那样，通常是为了纪念某个大使馆而举行的，例如卡帕乔在他的《圣乌苏拉传奇》中向我们展示的那样。 这些船只巨大，像建筑一样建造，看起来几乎是两栖的，就像小威尼斯坐落在大威尼斯的中心，当它们通过铺有深红色缎子和波斯地毯的悬挂舞台停泊在岸上时，它们在船上载着女士们。樱桃红的锦缎和绿色的锦缎紧挨着镶满彩色大理石的阳台，其他女士们从阳台上倾身凝视着她们，她们穿着黑色袖子的礼服，袖子上有白色的开叉，缝有珍珠或镶着蕾丝。你分不清哪里是陆地的尽头，哪里是水的起点，哪里仍然是宫殿，哪里已经是船只、轻快帆船、加莱亚帆船、布辛托罗帆船。”阿尔贝蒂娜怀着极大的兴趣聆听着这些服装细节，这些优雅的景象埃尔斯蒂尔正在向我们描述。 “噢，我真想看看你说的那条蕾丝；它太漂亮了，威尼斯风格的，”她喊道。 “此外，我很想去看看威尼斯。” “也许，不久之后，”埃尔斯蒂尔告诉她，“你可能会看到他们过去穿的奇妙的东西。”迄今为止，人们只能在威尼斯画家的作品中看到它们，或者很少在古老教堂的珍品中看到它们，除非偶尔有标本进入拍卖室。但我听说一位名叫福尔图尼的威尼斯艺术家已经恢复了这门手艺的秘密，而且在许多年后，女性将能够走出国门，最好是坐在家里，穿着像威尼斯装饰的那样华丽的锦缎。 ，为她的贵族女儿们设计，图案来自东方。 但我不知道我是否应该太在意这一点，对于当今的女性来说，即使她们在帆船赛上游行，这也不会太不合时宜，因为，回到我们现代的游乐工艺自从《威尼斯，亚得里亚海的女王》以来，时代已经完全改变了。游艇、游艇的陈设、游艇服饰的最大魅力就在于它们的简单，就像大海的东西一样，我非常喜欢海。我必须向你承认，我更喜欢今天的时尚，而不是委罗内塞甚至卡帕乔时代的时尚。我们的游艇有什么吸引人的地方——尤其是小型游艇，我不喜欢大型游艇，它们太像船了；游艇就像女人的帽子，你必须保持在一定的限度内——完整的表面，简单，闪闪发光，灰色，在多云、铅灰色的天空下呈现出奶油般的柔软。我们住的小屋应该让我们想起一家小咖啡馆。游艇上的女装也是同样的道理。真正迷人的是那些清一色的轻薄衣服，无论是布的、亚麻的、棉布的还是斜纹布的，在阳光的照射下，在蔚蓝的大海的衬托下，呈现出一种耀眼的白色，就像张开的帆一样。就此而言，你很少见到懂得穿衣的女人，但其中有些人却相当出色。在比赛中，女士。莉亚戴着一顶白色小帽子，戴着一个白色小遮阳伞，简直迷人。我不知道我愿意为那个小遮阳伞付出什么。”我很想知道这个小遮阳伞在哪些方面与其他遮阳伞不同，而出于其他原因，出于女性虚荣心的原因，阿尔贝蒂娜还是更喜欢这个小遮阳伞。好奇的。但是，正如弗朗索瓦丝过去常常用“这就是你做蛋奶酥的方式”来解释她的蛋奶酥的卓越之处一样，这里的区别也在于切工。 “它是，”埃尔斯蒂尔解释说，“很小，很圆，就像一把中国伞。”我提到了不同女士携带的遮阳伞，但它与她们中的任何一个都不一样。埃尔斯蒂尔发现它们都很丑陋。作为一个品味高雅、很难取悦的男人，他会找出一些微小的细节，这些细节是他所见过的四分之三的女人所穿的衣服与令他着迷的衣服之间的全部区别，这让他感到恐惧；而且——与它对我的影响形成鲜明对比，我的头脑中任何奢华的展示都会立刻被消毒——刺激了他绘画的欲望，“以便让一些东西变得有吸引力。”“在这里你看到一位年轻的女士，她猜出了帽子和遮阳伞是什么就像，”他指着阿尔贝蒂娜对我说，阿尔贝蒂娜的眼睛里闪烁着嫉妒的光芒。 “我多么希望能够变得富有，拥有一艘游艇！”她对画家说道。 ‘我应该来找你，告诉我如何运作它。我会进行多么愉快的旅行啊。去考斯参加比赛该多有趣啊。还有一辆汽车！告诉我，你认为女士开车的时尚漂亮吗？埃尔斯蒂尔回答道：“不过那会及时到来的。”你看，目前很少有公司，只有一两家，Callot——尽管他们在花边领域相当自由——有时Doucet、Cheruit、Paquin。 “那么，卡洛特的裙子和普通商店里的衣服有什么区别吗？”我问阿尔贝蒂娜。 ‘哎呀，差别太大了，我的小家伙！请再说一遍！只是，唉！在普通商店里卖三百法郎的东西，在那里要卖两千法郎。但没有可比性；它们只对那些对此一无所知的人来说看起来是一样的。” “正是如此，”埃尔斯蒂尔插话道。 “尽管我不应该说它与兰斯大教堂的雕像和圣奥古斯丁的雕像之间的区别那么深刻。顺便说一句，谈论大教堂，”他继续说道，只对我说话，因为他所说的是指早些时候的一次谈话，女孩们没有参加，就这一点而言，她们不会感兴趣。所有，“前几天我在巴尔贝克教堂对你们讲话时，把它当作一座巨大的悬崖，一座用乡村石头建造的巨大防波堤；现在看看这个”；他递给我一幅水彩画。 “看看这些悬崖（这是我在克罗尼耶附近画的草图）；这些岩石难道不会让你想起一座大教堂吗？”事实上，人们会把它们误认为是高耸的红色拱门。但是，在炎热的天气里作画，它们似乎已经碎成了灰尘，被吞没了半个大海的热量所挥发，在画面的整个表面上几乎被蒸馏成气态。在阳光可以说摧毁了现实的这一天，现实集中在某些昏暗而透明的生物身上，相比之下，它们给人一种更引人注目、更接近的生命印象：阴影。它们中的大多数人为了避暑而捕食，离开了被烧焦的空地，逃到岩石脚下避难，远离阳光。另一些则像海豚一样在潮汐上轻轻游动，紧贴着移动的船只的侧面，它们的船体以其光滑的蓝色形状延伸到苍白的水面上。也许正是他们所传达的对凉爽的渴望，最让我感受到了这一天的炎热，让我感叹我是多么后悔没有认识克罗尼耶人。 阿尔贝蒂娜和安德烈确信我一定已经去过那里数百次了。如果是这样，我在不知不觉中就到了那里，从未怀疑有一天这些岩石的景象会激发我对美的渴望，也许不完全是我迄今为止在巴尔贝克悬崖中寻找的自然美，但相当有建筑感。最重要的是，我来到这里参观风暴王国，在与夫人的任何一次驾车旅行中从未发现过。 de Villeparisis，当我们经常只能从远处看到它时，画在树木之间的缝隙中，海洋足够真实，足够流动，给人一种足够的印象，它正在将其集中的力量投向海岸，并且希望看到它我一动不动地躺在冬日的雾气笼罩下，我永远无法相信我现在梦到的大海只不过是一片白色的蒸汽，失去了稠度和颜色。但是，埃尔斯蒂尔，就像那些坐在船上沉思的人一样，在炎热的天气里昏昏欲睡，他如此强烈地感受到了这样的海洋的魅力，他成功地将潮水的难以察觉的回流永远记录在画板上。 ，幸福时刻的悸动；看到这幅神奇的肖像，人们突然变得如此着迷，除了走遍世界，试图重新捕捉那瞬间消失的、沉睡的美丽之外，别无他法。

So that if before these visits to Elstir, before I had set eyes on one of his sea-pictures in which a young woman in a dress of white serge or linen, on the deck of a yacht flying the American flag, had duplicated a white linen dress and coloured flag in my imagination which at once bred in me an insatiable desire to visit the spot and see there with my own eyes white linen dresses and flags against the sea, as though no such experience had ever yet befallen me, always until then I had taken care when I stood by the sea to expel from my field of vision, as well as the bathers in the foreground, the yachts with their too dazzling sails that were like seaside costumes, everything that prevented me from persuading myself that I was contemplating the immemorial flood of ocean which had been moving with the same mysterious life before the appearance of the human race; and had grudged even the days of radiant sunshine which seemed to me to invest with the trivial aspect of the world’s universal summer this coast of fog and tempest, to mark simply an interruption, equivalent to what in music is known as a rest; now on the other hand it was the bad days that appeared to me to be some disastrous accident, a thing that could no longer find any place for itself in the world of beauty; I felt a keen desire to go out and recapture in reality what had so powerfully aroused my imagination, and I hoped that the weather would be propitious enough for me to see from the summit of the cliff the same blue shadows as were in Elstir’s picture.
因此，如果在访问埃尔斯蒂尔之前，在我看到他的一幅海景画之前，在这幅画中，一位穿着白色哔叽或亚麻布连衣裙的年轻女子，在一艘悬挂美国国旗的游艇的甲板上，复制了一张白色的照片。亚麻衣服和彩色旗帜在我的想象中立刻产生了一种永不满足的渴望，想去参观那个地方，亲眼看看那儿白色的亚麻衣服和旗帜映衬在大海上，好像从来没有这样的经历降临到我身上，直到然后，当我站在海边时，我小心翼翼地把视野中的一切驱逐出去，还有前景中的沐浴者，那些帆帆过于耀眼，就像海边服装的游艇，所有阻止我说服自己的东西。正在思考远古的海洋洪水，在人类出现之前，海洋就以同样神秘的生命流动着；甚至对灿烂阳光的日子也感到不满，在我看来，阳光似乎在这片雾气和暴风雨的海岸上投入了世界普遍夏季的微不足道的一面，只是标志着一种中断，相当于音乐中所谓的休息；另一方面，现在那些糟糕的日子对我来说似乎是一场灾难性的事故，一种在美丽的世界里再也找不到自己的位置的东西；我强烈地渴望走出去，在现实中重新捕捉那些如此强烈地激发了我的想象力的东西，我希望天气足够好，让我能够从悬崖顶上看到与埃尔斯蒂尔照片中相同的蓝色阴影。

Nor, as I went along, did I still make a frame about my eyes with my hands as in the days when, conceiving nature to be animated by a life anterior to the first appearance of man, and inconsistent with all those wearisome perfections of industrial achievement which had hitherto made me yawn with boredom at Universal Exhibitions or in the milliners’ windows, I endeavoured to include only that section of the sea over which there was no steamer passing, so that I might picture it to myself as immemorial, still contemporary with the ages in which it had been set apart from the land, or at least with the first dawn of life in Greece, which enabled me to repeat in their literal meaning the lines of ‘Father Leconte’ of which Bloch was so fond:
当我继续前行时，我也不再像以前那样用手在眼睛周围画出一个框架，那时，我认为自然是由人类第一次出现之前的生命所赋予的活力，并且与所有那些令人厌烦的工业完美不一致。迄今为止，这项成就让我在环球展览或女帽商的橱窗里无聊地打哈欠，我努力只包括那片没有轮船经过的海域，这样我就可以把它想象成远古的，仍然是当代的在它与土地分离的时代，或者至少在希腊生命的第一个黎明的时候，这使我能够按字面意思重复布洛赫非常喜欢的“勒孔特神父”的诗句：

’Gone are the Kings, gone are their towering prows,
“国王们都消失了，他们高耸的船头也消失了，

Vanished upon the raging deep, alas,
唉，消失在汹涌的深海中，

The long-haired warrior heroes of Hellas.’
希腊的长发战士英雄。

I could no longer despise the milliners, now that Elstir had told me that the delicate touches by which they give a last refinement, a supreme caress to the ribbons or feathers of a hat after it is finished, would be as interesting to him to paint as the muscular action of the jockeys themselves (a statement which had delighted Albertine). But I must wait until I had returned—for milliners, to Paris—for regattas and races to Balbec, where there would be no more now until next year-. Even a yacht with women in white linen garments was not to be found.
我不能再鄙视女帽商了，因为埃尔斯蒂尔告诉我，他们最后的精炼所采用的细腻触感，帽子完成后对丝带或羽毛的极致爱抚，对他来说画画也会很有趣。作为骑师本身的肌肉动作（这句话让阿尔贝蒂娜很高兴）。但我必须等到我回来——为了女帽商，回到巴黎——为了参加巴尔贝克的帆船赛和比赛，那里直到明年才会再有。甚至连一艘载着穿着白色亚麻衣服的妇女的游艇也找不到。

Often we encountered Bloch’s sisters, to whom I was obliged to bow since I had dined with their father. My new friends did not know them. ‘I am not allowed to play with Israelites,’ Albertine explained. Her way of pronouncing the word—‘Issraelites’ instead of ‘Izraelites’—would in itself have sufficed to shew, even if one had not heard the rest of the sentence, that it was no feeling of friendliness towards the chosen race that inspired these young Frenchwomen, brought up in God-fearing homes, and quite ready to believe that the Jews were in the habit of massacring Christian children. ‘Besides, they’re shocking bad form, your friends,’ said Andrée with a smile which implied that she knew very well that they were no friends of mine. ‘Like everything to do with the tribe,’ went on Albertine, in the sententious tone of one who spoke from personal experience. To tell the truth, Bloch’s sisters, at once overdressed and half naked, with their languishing, bold, blatant, sluttish air did not create the best impression. And one of their cousins, who was only fifteen, scandalised the Casino by her unconcealed admiration for Mlle. Lea, whose talent as an actress M. Bloch senior rated very high, but whose tastes were understood to lead her not exactly in the direction of the gentlemen.
我们经常遇到布洛赫的姐妹，因为我和她们的父亲一起吃饭，所以我不得不向她们鞠躬。我的新朋友不认识他们。 “我不被允许和以色列人一起玩，”阿尔贝蒂娜解释道。她发音这个词的方式——“Issraelites”而不是“Izraelites”——本身就足以表明，即使人们没有听到这句话的其余部分，激发这些人的动机并不是对所选种族的友好感情。年轻的法国妇女在敬畏上帝的家庭中长大，她们很容易相信犹太人有屠杀基督徒儿童的习惯。 “而且，你们的朋友们，他们的行为太恶劣了，”安德烈微笑着说道，这意味着她很清楚他们不是我的朋友。 “就像与部落有关的一切一样，”阿尔贝蒂娜用一种来自个人经历的俏皮语气继续说道。说实话，布洛赫的姐妹们，衣着过于华丽，半裸着，一副颓然、大胆、张扬、放荡的样子，并没有给人留下最好的印象。他们的一位表亲，年仅十五岁，对小姐毫不掩饰的钦佩，令赌场感到震惊。莉娅作为演员的才华受到布洛赫先生的高度评价，但她的品味被认为并不完全引导她走向绅士们的方向。

Some days we took our refreshment at one of the outlying farms which catered to visitors. These were the farms known as Les Ecorres, Marie-Thérèse, La Croix d’Heuland, Bagatelle, Californie and Marie-Antoinette. It was the last that had been adopted by the little band.
有几天，我们在一个为游客服务的边远农场享用茶点。这些农场被称为 Les Ecorres、Marie-Thérèse、La Croix d’Heuland、Bagatelle、Californie 和 Marie-Antoinette。这是小乐队采用的最后一个。

But at other times, instead of going to a farm, we would climb to the highest point of the cliff, and, when we had reached it and were seated on the grass, would undo our parcel of sandwiches and cakes. My friends preferred the sandwiches, and were surprised to see me eat only a single chocolate cake, sugared with gothic tracery, or an apricot tart. This was because, with the sandwiches of cheese or of green-stuff, a form of food that was novel to me and knew nothing of the past, I had nothing in common. But the cakes understood, the tarts were gossips. There were in the former an insipid taste of cream, in the latter a fresh taste of fruit which knew all about Combray, and about Gilberte, not only the Gilberte of Combray but her too of Paris, at whose tea-parties I had found them again. They reminded me of those cake-plates of the Arabian Nights pattern, the subjects on which were such a distraction to my aunt Léonie when Françoise brought her up, one day, Aladdin or the Wonderful Lamp, another day Ali-Baba, or the Sleeper Awakes, or Sinbad the Sailor embarking at Bassorah with all his treasure. I should dearly have liked to see them again, but my grandmother did not know what had become of them, and thought moreover that they were just common plates that had been bought in the village. No matter, in that grey, midland Combray scene they and their pictures were set like many-coloured jewels, as in the dark church were the windows with their shifting radiance, as in the dusk of my bedroom were the projections cast by the magic-lantern, as in the foreground of the view of the railway-station and the little local line the buttercups from the Indies and the Persian lilacs, as were my great-aunt’s shelves of old porcelain in the sombre dwelling of an elderly lady in a country town.
但在其他时候，我们不会去农场，而是爬到悬崖的最高点，当我们到达悬崖并坐在草地上时，就会打开我们的三明治和蛋糕包裹。我的朋友们更喜欢三明治，他们惊讶地发现我只吃一块巧克力蛋糕，上面加了哥特式窗饰，或者一个杏子馅饼。这是因为，奶酪三明治或绿色食品三明治这种对我来说很新奇、对过去一无所知的食物，我没有任何共同点。但蛋糕明白，馅饼却是八卦。前者有一种淡而无味的奶油味道，后者有一种新鲜的水果味道，了解贡布雷和希尔贝特的一切，不仅是贡布雷的希尔贝特，还有巴黎的她，我在巴黎的茶会上找到了她们。再次。它们让我想起了《一千零一夜》图案的蛋糕盘，当弗朗索瓦丝抚养我的姑妈莱奥妮时，这些主题让她分心，有一天是阿拉丁或神灯，另一天是阿里巴巴或沉睡者醒来，或者水手辛巴达带着他所有的财宝登上巴索拉。我很想再见到它们，但祖母不知道它们变成了什么样子，而且认为它们只是村里买来的普通盘子。 不管怎样，在贡布雷中部的灰色场景中，他们和他们的照片就像五彩缤纷的珠宝一样，就像在黑暗的教堂里，窗户的光芒不断变化，就像在我卧室的黄昏里，魔法投射出来的投影一样——灯笼，就像在火车站景色的前景和当地的小线一样，来自印度的毛茛和波斯紫丁香，就像我姨婆在一个国家的一位老太太阴暗的住所里摆满旧瓷器的架子一样镇。

Stretched out on the cliff I would see before me nothing but grassy meadows and beyond them not the seven heavens of the Christian cosmogony but two stages only, one of a deeper blue, the sea, and over it another more pale. We ate our food, and if I had brought with me also some little keepsake which might appeal to one or other of my friends, joy sprang with such sudden violence into her translucent face, flushed in an instant, that her lips had not the strength to hold it in, and to allow it to escape parted in a shout of laughter. They had gathered close round me, and between their faces which were almost touching one another the air that separated them traced azure pathways such as might have been cut by a gardener wishing to clear the ground a little so as to be able himself to move freely through a thicket of roses.
躺在悬崖上，我眼前除了绿草如茵的草地什么也看不到，草地之外，也不是基督教宇宙论中的七层天堂，而是只有两层，一层是更深的蓝色，是大海，另一层是更苍白的蓝色。我们吃着食物，如果我还带了一些小纪念品，可能会吸引我的一个或另一个朋友，喜悦突然猛烈地涌上她那半透明的脸，一瞬间就红了，她的嘴唇没有力气了。抓住它，让它逃走，在一阵笑声中分开。他们紧紧地围着我，在他们几乎贴在一起的脸之间，隔开他们的空气划出一条蔚蓝的小路，就像一个园丁想要清理一点地面以便自己能够自由活动的园丁所开辟的一样。穿过一片玫瑰丛。

When we had finished eating we would play games which until then I should have thought boring, sometimes such childish games as King of the Castle, or Who Laughs First; not for a kingdom would I have renounced them now; the rosy dawn of adolescence, with which the faces of these girls were still aglow, and from which I, young as I was, had already emerged, shed its light on everything round about them and, like the fluid painting of some of the Primitives, brought out the most insignificant details of their daily lives in relief against a golden background. Even the faces of the girls were, for the most part, clouded with this misty effulgence of a dawn from which their actual features had not yet emerged. One saw only a charming sheet of colour beneath which what in a few years’ time would be a profile was not discernible. The profile of to-day had nothing definite about it, and could be only a momentary resemblance to some deceased member of the family to whom nature had paid this commemorative courtesy. It comes so soon, the moment when there is nothing left to wait for, when the body is fixed in an immobility which holds no fresh surprise in store, when one loses all hope on seeing—as on a tree in the height of summer leaves already brown—round a face still young hair that is growing thin or turning grey; it is so short, that radiant morning time that one comes to like only the very youngest girls, those in whom the flesh, like a precious leaven, is still at work. They are no more yet than a stream of ductile matter, moulded ever afresh by the fleeting impression of the moment. You would say that each of them was in turn a little statuette of childish gaiety, of a child grown earnest, coaxing, surprised, taking its pattern from an expression frank and complete, but fugitive. This plasticity gives a wealth of variety and charm to the pretty attentions which a little girl pays to us. Of course, such attentions are indispensable in the woman also, and she whom we do not attract, or who fails to let us see that we have attracted her, tends to assume in our eyes a somewhat tedious uniformity. But even these pretty attentions, after a certain age, cease to send gentle ripples over a face which the struggle for existence has hardened, has rendered unalterably militant or ecstatic. One—owing to the prolonged strain of the obedience that subjects wife to husband—will seem not so much a woman’s face as a soldier’s; another, carved by the sacrifices which a mother has consented to make, day after day, for her children, will be the face of an apostle. A third is, after a stormy passage through the years, the face of an ancient mariner, upon a body of which its garments alone indicate the sex. Certainly the attentions that a woman pays us can still, so long as we are in love with her, scatter fresh charms over the hours that we spend in her company. But she is not then for us a series of different women. Her gaiety remains external to an unchanging face. Whereas adolescence is anterior to this complete solidification; and from this it follows that we feel, in the company of young girls, the refreshing sense that is afforded us by the spectacle of forms undergoing an incessant process of change, a play of unstable forces which makes us think of that perpetual re-creation of the primordial elements of nature which we contemplate when we stand by the sea.
吃完饭后，我们会玩一些游戏，直到那时我才觉得很无聊，有时是一些幼稚的游戏，比如《城堡之王》或《谁先笑》；现在我不会为了一个王国而放弃他们；青春期的玫瑰色黎明，这些女孩的脸庞仍然红润，而我，尽管我还年轻，已经从中脱颖而出，将其光芒照亮了她们周围的一切，就像一些原始人的流体画一样，在金色的背景下浮雕出他们日常生活中最微不足道的细节。就连女孩们的脸，也大半都笼罩着黎明般的朦胧光辉，她们的真面目还没有显现出来。人们只看到一层迷人的色彩，几年后的轮廓将变得难以辨认。今天的轮廓没有任何明确的内容，可能只是与大自然给予这种纪念性礼遇的某个已故家庭成员有短暂的相似之处。它来得太快了，那一刻已经没有什么可等待的了，当身体一动不动，没有新的惊喜等待着，当一个人对看到的一切失去了希望——就像在夏天叶子茂盛的一棵树上一样已经是棕色的——脸上的头发还很年轻，正在变得稀疏或变成灰色；那个阳光明媚的早晨时间如此短暂，以至于人们只喜欢最年轻的女孩，她们的肉体就像珍贵的酵母一样，仍在发挥作用。它们只不过是一股延展性物质，被瞬间的短暂印象重新塑造。 你可能会说，他们每个人都是一个充满童趣的小雕像，一个孩子变得认真、哄骗、惊讶的小雕像，其模式取材于一种坦率、完整但又难以捉摸的表情。这种可塑性赋予小女孩对我们的美丽关注丰富的多样性和魅力。当然，这种关注对女人来说也是必不可少的，而那些我们没有吸引到的女人，或者没有让我们看到我们吸引了她的女人，往往会在我们眼中呈现出一种有些乏味的千篇一律的样子。但即使是这些漂亮的关注，到了一定年龄后，也不再会在一张因生存斗争而变得冷酷、变得不可改变的好斗或狂喜的脸上激起温柔的涟漪。由于妻子对丈夫的长期服从，一张脸看起来与其说是一张女人的脸，不如说是一张士兵的脸。另一张是由一位母亲日复一日同意为她的孩子做出的牺牲所雕刻的，这将是一位使徒的脸。第三张是在经历了岁月的风雨岁月之后，一位古代水手的脸，在他的身体上，仅靠衣服就可以看出性别。当然，只要我们还爱着一个女人，她对我们的关注仍然可以在我们陪伴她的时光中散发出新鲜的魅力。但对于我们来说，她并不是一系列不同的女性。她那张不变的脸上依然洋溢着快乐。而青春期是在这种完全固化之前；由此可见，在年轻女孩的陪伴下，我们感受到了一种令人耳目一新的感觉，这种感觉是形式的奇观经历着不断的变化过程，不稳定的力量的发挥，使我们想到永恒的再创造当我们站在海边时，我们会思考自然的原始元素。

It was not merely a social engagement, a drive with Mme. de Villeparisis, that I would have sacrificed to the ‘Ferret’ or ‘Guessing Games’ of my friends. More than once, Robert de Saint-Loup had sent word that, since I was not coming to see him at Doncières, he had applied for twenty-four hours’ leave, which he would spend at Balbec. Each time I wrote back that he was on no account to come, offering the excuse that I should be obliged to be away myself that very day, when I had some duty call to pay with my grandmother on family friends in the neighbourhood. No doubt I fell in his estimation when he learned from his aunt in what the ‘duty call’ consisted, and who the persons were who combined to play the part of my grandmother. And yet I had not been wrong, perhaps, after all, in sacrificing not only the vain pleasures of the world but the real pleasure of friendship to that of spending the whole day in this green garden. People who enjoy the capacity—it is true that such people are artists, and I had long been convinced that I should never be that—are also under an obligation to live for themselves. And friendship is a dispensation from this duty, an abdication of self. Even conversation, which is the mode of expression of friendship, is a superficial digression which gives us no new acquisition. We may talk for a lifetime without doing more than indefinitely repeat the vacuity of a minute, whereas the march of thought in the solitary travail of artistic creation proceeds downwards, into the depths, in the only direction that is not closed to us, along which we are free to advance—though with more effort, it is true—towards a goal of truth. And friendship is not merely devoid of virtue, like conversation, it is fatal to us as well. For the sense of boredom which it is impossible not to feel in a friend’s company (when, that is to say, we must remain exposed on the surface of our consciousness, instead of pursuing our voyage of discovery into the depths) for those of us in whom the law of development is purely internal—that first impression of boredom our friendship impels us to correct when we are alone again, to recall with emotion the words uttered by our friend, to look upon them as a valuable addition to our substance, albeit we are not like buildings to which stones can be added from without, but like trees which draw from their own sap the knot that duly appears on their trunks, the spreading roof of their foliage. I was lying to myself, I was interrupting the process of growth in that direction in which I could indeed really be enlarged and made happy, when I congratulated myself on being liked, admired, by so good, so clever, so rare a creature as Saint-Loup, when I focussed my mind, not upon my own obscure impressions which duty bade me unravel, but on the words uttered by my friend, in which, when I repeated them to myself—when I had them repeated to me by that other self who dwells in us and on to whom we are always so ready to transfer the burden of taking thought,—I strove to make myself find a beauty very different from that which I used to pursue in silence when I was really alone, but one that would enhance the merit of Robert, of myself, of my life. In the life which a friend like this provided for me, I seemed to myself to be comfortably preserved from solitude, nobly desirous of sacrificing myself for him, in fact quite incapable of realising myself. Among the girls, on the other hand, if the pleasure which I enjoyed was selfish, at least it was not based on the lie which seeks to make us believe that we are not irremediably alone, and which, when we talk to another person, prevents us from admitting that it is no longer we who speak, that we are fashioning ourselves in the likeness of strangers and not of our own ego, which is quite different from them. The words that passed between the girls of the little band and myself were not of any interest; they were, moreover, but few, broken by long spells of silence on my part. All of which did not prevent me from finding, in listening to them when they spoke to me, as much pleasure as in gazing at them, in discovering in the voice of each one of them a brightly coloured picture. It was with ecstasy that I caught their pipings. Love helps us to discern things, to discriminate. Standing in a wood, the lover of birds at once distinguishes the notes of the different species, which to ordinary people sound the same. The lover of girls knows that human voices vary even more. Each one possesses more notes than the richest instrument of music. And the combinations in which the voice groups those notes are as inexhaustible as the infinite variety of personalities. When I talked with any one of my friends I was conscious that the original, the unique portrait of her individuality had been skilfully traced, tyranically imposed on my mind as much by the inflexions of her voice as by those of her face, and that these were two separate spectacles which rendered, each in its own plane, the same single reality. No doubt the lines of the voice, like those of the face, were not yet definitely fixed; the voice had still to break, as the face to change. Just as children have a gland the secretion in which enables them to digest milk, a gland which is not found in grown men and women, so there were in the twitterings of these girls notes which women’s voices no longer contain. And on this instrument with its greater compass they played with their lips, shewing all the application, the ardour of Bellini’s little angel musicians, qualities which also are an exclusive appanage of youth. Later on these girls would lose that note of enthusiastic conviction which gave a charm to their simplest utterances, whether it were Albertine who, in a tone of authority, repeated puns to which the younger ones listened with admiration, until that wild impulse to laugh caught them all with the irresistible violence of a sneeze, or Andrée who began to speak of their work in the schoolroom, work even more childish seemingly than the games they played, with a gravity essentially puerile; and their words changed in tone, like the lyrics of ancient times when poetry, still hardly differentiated from music, was declaimed upon the different notes of a scale. In spite of which, the girls’ voices already gave a quite clear indication of the attitude that each of these little people had adopted towards life, an attitude so personal that it would be speaking in far too general terms to say of one: ‘She treats everything as a joke,’ of another: ‘She jumps from assertion to assertion,’ of a third: ‘She lives in a state of expectant hesitation.’ The features of our face are hardly more than gestures which force of habit has made permanent. Nature, like the destruction of Pompeii, like the metamorphosis of a nymph into a tree, has arrested us in an accustomed movement. Similarly, our intonations embody our philosophy of life, what a person says to himself about things at any given moment. No doubt these peculiarities were to be found not only in the girls. They were those of their parents. The individual is a part of something that is more generally diffused than himself. By this reckoning, our parents furnish us not only with those habitual gestures which are the outlines of our face and voice, but also with certain mannerisms in speech, certain favourite expressions, which, almost as unconscious as an intonation, almost as profound, indicate likewise a definite point of view towards life. It is quite true, since we are speaking of girls, that there are certain of these expressions which their parents do not hand on to them until they have reached a certain age, as a rule not before they are women. These are kept in reserve. Thus, for instance, if you were to speak of the pictures of one of Elstir’s friends, Andrée, whose hair was still ‘down,’ could not yet make use, personally, of the expression which her mother and elder sister employed: ‘It appears, the man is quite charming!’ But that would come in due course, when she was allowed to go to the Palais-Royal. And already, since her first communion, Albertine had begun to say, like a friend of her aunt: ‘I’m sure I should find that simply terrible!’ She had also had given to her, as a little present, the habit of repeating whatever you had just been saying to her, so as to appear to be interested, and to be trying to form an opinion of her own. If you said that an artist’s work was good, or his house nice, ‘Oh, his work is good, is it?’ ‘Oh, his house is nice, is it?’ Last of all, and even more general than the family heritage, was the rich layer imposed by the native province from which they derived their voices and of which indeed their intonations smacked. When Andrée sharply struck a solemn note she could not prevent the Perigordian string of her vocal instrument from giving back a resonant sound quite in harmony, moreover, with the Meridional purity of her features; while to the incessant pranks of Rosemonde the substance of her North-Country face and voice responded, whatever her mood at the time, in the accent of their province. Between that province and the temperament of the little girl who dictated these inflexions, I caught a charming dialogue. A dialogue, not in any sense a discord. It would not have been possible to separate the girl herself and her native place. She was herself; she was still it also. Moreover this reaction of locally procured materials on the genius who utilises them and to whose work their reaction imparts an added freshness, does not make the work any less individual, and whether it be that of an architect, a cabinet-maker or a composer, it reflects no less minutely the most subtle shades of the artist’s personality, because he has been compelled to work in the millstone of Senlis or the red sandstone of Strasbourg, has respected the knots peculiar to the ash-tree, has borne in mind, when writing his score, the resources, the limitations, the volume of sound, the possibilities of flute or alto voice.
这不仅仅是一次社交活动，也不仅仅是一次与夫人的共同努力。 de Villeparisis，我会牺牲给我朋友的“雪貂”或“猜谜游戏”。罗伯特·德·圣卢不止一次地传话说，由于我不去东西埃见他，他已经申请了二十四小时的假期，他将在巴尔贝克度过。每次我回信说他不会来了，借口是我当天必须离开，因为我要和祖母一起去拜访附近的家人朋友。毫无疑问，当他从姨妈那里得知“职责”的含义以及扮演我祖母角色的人是谁时，我对他的评价就受到了认可。然而，也许我并没有错，因为我不仅牺牲了世上虚无的快乐，而且还牺牲了友谊的真正乐趣，以在这个绿色花园里度过一整天。享受这种能力的人——确实，这样的人是艺术家，而我一直坚信我永远不应该成为艺术家——也有义务为自己而活。友谊是对这种责任的免除，是对自我的放弃。甚至连谈话这种表达友谊的方式也只是肤浅的题外话，没有给我们带来新的收获。我们可能会谈论一生，而不会做更多的事情，而只是无限期地重复一分钟的空虚，而在艺术创作的孤独辛苦中，思想的前进是向下进行的，进入深处，沿着唯一对我们不封闭的方向，沿着它我们可以自由地朝着真理的目标前进——尽管确实要付出更多的努力。而友谊不仅像谈话一样缺乏美德，它对我们来说也是致命的。 对于我们这些人来说，在朋友的陪伴下不可能不感受到无聊感（也就是说，我们必须保持暴露在我们意识的表面，而不是追求我们的探索之旅深入深处）在他们身上，发展法则纯粹是内在的——我们的友谊给我们带来的第一印象是无聊，当我们再次独处时，会促使我们改正，带着情感回忆我们朋友所说的话，把它们视为对我们物质的宝贵补充，尽管我们不像建筑物，可以从外部添加石头，但就像树木从自己的汁液中汲取结节，适当地出现在树干上，叶子的屋顶上。当我庆幸自己被如此优秀、如此聪明、如此罕见的生物喜欢、钦佩时，我在对自己撒谎，我正在打断我确实可以真正成长和快乐的方向的成长过程。圣卢，当我把注意力集中在我的朋友所说的话上时，我的注意力不是集中在我自己的模糊印象上，这些印象是责任要求我解开的。居住在我们内心的另一个自我，我们总是准备好将思考的重担转移到他身上——我努力让自己找到一种与我在真正孤独时默默追求的美丽截然不同的美丽，但是这将提高罗伯特、我自己和我一生的价值。在这样的朋友为我提供的生活中，我觉得自己很舒服，远离孤独，高尚地渴望为他牺牲自己，但实际上却完全没有能力实现自己。 另一方面，在女孩中，如果我所享受的快乐是自私的，那么至少它不是基于谎言，这种谎言试图让我们相信我们并不是无可挽回的孤独，而且当我们与另一个人交谈时，阻止我们承认说话的不再是我们，我们正在以陌生人的形象而不是我们自己的自我来塑造自己，这与他们完全不同。我和小乐队的女孩们之间的谈话毫无意义；此外，他们虽然很少，但被我长时间的沉默所打破。所有这些并没有阻止我在听他们对我说话时发现与凝视他们一样的乐趣，在他们每个人的声音中发现一幅色彩鲜艳的图画。我欣喜若狂地听到了他们的笛声。爱帮助我们辨别事物、辨别事物。站在树林里，鸟类爱好者立刻就能辨别出不同物种的声音，而对普通人来说，这些声音听起来是一样的。喜欢女孩的人都知道，人的声音变化更大。每一种乐器所拥有的音符都比最丰富的乐器还要多。声音对这些音符进行分组的组合就像无穷无尽的个性一样无穷无尽。当我和我的任何一个朋友交谈时，我都意识到她个性的原始、独特的肖像已经被巧妙地描绘出来，通过她声音的变化和她脸上的变化一样强加在我的脑海里，而且这些是两个独立的景观，它们在各自的平面上呈现出同一个现实。毫无疑问，声音的线条，就像脸部的线条一样，还没有完全确定。声音仍需破裂，脸色仍需改变。 正如儿童有一种腺体，其分泌物使他们能够消化牛奶，而成年男女中没有这种腺体，因此，这些女孩的叽叽喳喳声中也有女性声音中不再包含的音符。在这把具有更大罗盘的乐器上，他们用嘴唇演奏，展现了贝利尼小天使音乐家的热情和热情，这些品质也是年轻人独有的属性。后来，这些姑娘们就失去了那种使她们最简单的话语充满魅力的热情信念，无论是阿尔贝蒂娜以权威的语气重复双关语，年轻的姑娘们都钦佩地听着，直到她们狂笑的冲动被抓住。他们都带着不可抗拒的打喷嚏的暴力，或者安德烈开始谈论他们在教室里的工作，工作看起来比他们玩的游戏还要幼稚，严肃本质上是幼稚的；他们的话语的语气也发生了变化，就像古代的歌词一样，当时的诗歌与音乐几乎没有区别，是在音阶的不同音符上朗诵的。尽管如此，女孩们的声音已经清楚地表明了这些小人物对生活的态度，这种态度是如此个人化，以至于用过于笼统的术语来形容一个人：“她对待一切都像个笑话”，另一个人说：“她从一个断言跳到另一个断言”，第三个人说：“她生活在一种期待的犹豫状态中。”我们脸上的特征只不过是习惯的力量所做出的手势。永恒的。大自然，就像庞贝古城的毁灭，就像仙女变成一棵树一样，以一种习以为常的动作逮捕了我们。 同样，我们的语调体现了我们的生活哲学，即一个人在任何特定时刻对自己说的话。毫无疑问，这些特点不仅仅存在于女孩身上。他们是他们父母的人。个人是比他自己更广泛扩散的事物的一部分。由此看来，我们的父母不仅为我们提供了那些习惯性的手势，即我们的面部和声音的轮廓，而且还为我们提供了某些言语习惯，某些最喜欢的表达方式，它们几乎像语调一样无意识，几乎同样深刻，表明同样对生活也有明确的看法。确实，既然我们谈论的是女孩，那么某些表达方式是她们的父母直到她们达到一定年龄（通常在她们成为女性之前）才传授给她们的。这些都是保留的。因此，举例来说，如果你要谈论埃尔斯蒂尔的一位朋友的照片，安德烈的头发仍然是“垂下来”的，她个人还无法使用她母亲和姐姐所使用的表达方式：“它看起来，这个男人很有魅力！”但这会在适当的时候到来，当她被允许去皇家宫殿时。自从第一次圣餐以来，阿尔贝蒂娜就开始像她姨妈的朋友一样说：“我确信我会觉得这简直太可怕了！”她还养成了这样的习惯，作为一份小礼物：重复你刚才对她说的话，以显得很感兴趣，并试图形成她自己的观点。如果你说一个艺术家的作品很好，或者他的房子很好，‘哦，他的作品很好，是吗？’‘哦，他的房子很好，是吗？最后，甚至比家族传统更普遍的是，他们的声音和语调都来自于他们的家乡，从而赋予了他们丰富的层次。当安德烈尖锐地演奏出庄严的音符时，她无法阻止她的乐器的佩里戈尔弦发出共鸣的声音，而且与她面容的子午纯洁性非常和谐；而对于罗斯蒙德不断的恶作剧，无论她当时的心情如何，她的北方面孔和声音都会用他们省的口音做出回应。在那个省份和那个决定这些变化的小女孩的气质之间，我捕捉到了一段迷人的对话。对话，绝不是不和谐。不可能将女孩本人和她的家乡分开。她就是她自己；她也还是这样。此外，本地采购的材料对使用它们的天才的反应，以及它们的反应给他们的作品带来了额外的新鲜感，并没有使作品变得不那么个性化，无论是建筑师、橱柜制造商还是作曲家，它同样细致地反映了艺术家个性中最微妙的阴影，因为他被迫在桑利斯的磨石或斯特拉斯堡的红砂岩上工作，尊重白蜡树特有的节，记住，当写他的乐谱、资源、局限性、音量、长笛或中音的可能性。

All this I realised, and yet we talked so little. Whereas with Mme. de Villeparisis or Saint-Loup I should have displayed by my words a great deal more pleasure than I should actually have felt, for I used always to be worn out when I parted from them; when, on the other hand, I was lying on the grass among all these girls, the plenitude of what I was feeling infinitely outweighed the paucity, the infrequency of our speech, and brimmed over from my immobility and silence in floods of happiness, the waves of which rippled up to die at the feet of these young roses.
这一切我都意识到了，但我们却聊得很少。而Mme。德·维尔帕里西斯或圣卢，我本来应该通过言语表现出比我实际感受到的更多的快乐，因为当我与他们分开时，我总是感到疲惫不堪。另一方面，当我躺在草地上，周围都是这些女孩时，我所感受到的充实感远远超过了我们说话的匮乏和不频繁，并且从我的不动和沉默中充满了幸福的洪流，波涛汹涌，最终死在这些年轻玫瑰的脚下。

For a convalescent who rests all day long in a flower-garden or orchard, a scent of flowers or fruit does not more completely pervade the thousand trifles that compose his idle hours than did for me that colour, that fragrance in search of which my eyes kept straying towards the girls, and the sweetness of which finally became incorporated in me. So it is that grapes grow sugary in sunshine. And by their slow continuity these simple little games had gradually wrought in me also, as in those who do nothing else all day but lie outstretched by the sea, breathing the salt air and growing sunburned, a relaxation, a blissful smile, a vague sense of dizziness that had spread from brain to eyes.
对于一个整天在花园或果园里休息的康复者来说，花香或水果的香味并不比我眼睛所寻找的那种颜色、那种香味更完全地弥漫在构成他闲暇时间的成千上万的琐事中。不断地向着女孩子们的方向走去，而其中的甜蜜终于融入了我的体内。所以，葡萄在阳光下才会变得含糖。这些简单的小游戏通过它们缓慢的连续性，也逐渐在我身上产生了一种放松，一种幸福的微笑，一种模糊的感觉，就像那些整天躺在海边，呼吸着咸味的空气，晒伤的人一样，什么都不做。头晕从大脑蔓延到眼睛。

Now and then a pretty attention from one or another of them would stir in me vibrations which dissipated for a time my desire for the rest. Thus one day Albertine had suddenly asked: ‘Who has a pencil?’ Andrée had provided one, Rosemonde the paper; Albertine had warned them: ‘Now, young ladies, you are not to look at what I write.’ After carefully tracing each letter, supporting the paper on her knee, she had passed it to me with: ‘Take care no one sees.’ Whereupon I had unfolded it and read her message, which was: ‘I love you.’
时不时地，他们中的一个或另一个人的相当关注会激起我的振动，这暂时消散了我对休息的渴望。因此有一天，阿尔贝蒂娜突然问：“谁有一支铅笔？”安德烈提供了一支，罗斯蒙德则提供了纸。阿尔贝蒂娜警告过她们：“现在，年轻的女士们，你们不准看我写的东西。”她把纸放在膝盖上，仔细地描画完每封信后，把信递给我，并说道：“小心别让别人看到。” ” 于是我打开它并读到了她的信息，内容是：“我爱你。

‘But we mustn’t sit here scribbling nonsense,’ she cried, turning impetuously, with a sudden gravity of demeanour, to Andrée and Rosemonde.
“但我们不能坐在这里乱写乱画，”她大声喊道，突然神情严肃地转向安德烈和罗斯蒙德。

‘I ought to shew you the letter I got from Gisèle this morning. What an idiot I am; I’ve had it all this time in my pocket—and you can’t think how important it may be to us.’ Gisèle had been moved to copy out for her friend, so that it might be passed on to the others, the essay which she had written in her certificate examination. Albertine’s fears as to the difficulty of the subjects set had been more than justified by the two from which Gisèle had had to choose. The first was: ‘Sophocles, from the Shades, writes to Racine to console him for the failure of Athalie”; the other: ‘Suppose that, after the first performance of Esther, Mme. de Sévigné is writing to Mme. de La Fayette to tell her how much she regretted her absence.’ Now Gisèle, in an excess of zeal which ought to have touched the examiners’ hearts, had chosen the former, which was also the more difficult of the two subjects, and had handled it with such remarkable skill that she had been given fourteen marks, and had been congratulated by the board. She would have received her ‘mention’ if she had not ‘dried up’ in the Spanish paper. The essay, a copy of which Gisèle had now sent her, was immediately read aloud to us by Albertine, for, having presently to pass the same examination, she was anxious to have an opinion from Andrée, who was by far the cleverest of them all and might be able to give her some good ‘tips.’ ‘She did have a bit of luck!’ was Albertine’s comment.’It’s the very subject her French mistress made her swot up while she was here.’ The letter from Sophocles to Racine, as drafted by Gisèle, ran as follows: ‘My dear friend, You must pardon me the liberty of addressing you when I have not the honour of your personal acquaintance, but your latest tragedy, Athalie, shews, does it not, that you have made the most thorough study of my own modest works. You have not only put poetry in the mouths of the protagonists, or principal persons of the drama, but you have written other, and, let me tell you without flattery, charming verses for the choruses, a feature which was not too bad, according to all one hears, in Greek Tragedy, but is a complete novelty in France. Nay more, your talent always so fluent, so finished, so winning, so fine, so delicate, has here acquired an energy on which I congratulate you. Athalie, Joad—these are figures which your rival Corneille could have wrought no better. The characters are virile, the plot simple and strong. You have given us a tragedy in which love is not the keynote, and on this I must offer you my sincerest compliments. The most familiar proverbs are not always the truest. I will give you an example:
“我应该给你看今天早上我从吉赛尔那里收到的信。我真是个白痴啊！我一直把它放在口袋里，你无法想象它对我们来说有多重要。”吉赛尔很感动地为她的朋友复印了一份，这样它就可以传递给其他人，即她在证书考试中写的论文。阿尔贝蒂娜对所设科目的难度的担心在吉赛尔必须从中选择的两个科目中得到了充分的证明。第一条是：“来自阴影区的索福克勒斯写信给拉辛，安慰他阿塔莉的失败”；另一个：“假设，在《埃丝特》第一次演出之后，夫人。德塞维涅正在写信给夫人。 “请德拉斐特告诉她，她对自己的缺席感到多么遗憾。”现在，吉赛尔出于过度的热情，本应感动考官的心，但她选择了前者，这也是两个科目中较难的一个，并且她以如此出色的技巧处理了这件事，因此获得了十四分，并受到了董事会的祝贺。如果她没有在西班牙报纸上“枯竭”，她就会得到“提及”。吉赛尔寄给她的那篇文章立即被阿尔贝蒂娜大声朗读给我们听，因为她很快就通过了同样的考试，急切地想听听安德烈的意见，而安德烈是他们中最聪明的一个。 ” “她确实有一点运气！”阿尔贝蒂娜评论道。“这正是她在这里时她的法国情妇给她提出的主题。” 索福克勒斯写给拉辛的信由吉赛尔起草，内容如下：“我亲爱的朋友，当我没有荣幸与您私交时，请您原谅我向您讲话的自由，但您最近的悲剧阿塔莉表明了这一点：是吗，您已经对我自己的朴素作品进行了最彻底的研究。你不仅把诗放在主角或戏剧的主要人物的嘴里，而且你还写了其他的，而且，让我毫不客气地告诉你，合唱团的迷人诗句，这一点还不错，根据在希腊悲剧中，大家都听说过，但在法国却完全是新鲜事。不仅如此，你的才华总是如此流畅、如此完美、如此成功、如此优秀、如此精致，在这里获得了一种我向你表示祝贺的能量。阿塔莉、乔德——这些人物是你的对手高乃依不可能做得更好的。人物性格阳刚，情节简单而有力。你给我们带来了一场没有爱情基调的悲剧，对此我必须向你致以最诚挚的敬意。最熟悉的谚语并不总是最真实的。 我给你举个例子：

’This passion treat, which makes the poet’s art
’这种激情的享受，使得诗人的艺术

Fly, as on wings, straight to the listener’s heart.’
像展翅飞翔一样，直达听众的内心。”

You have shewn us that the religious sentiment in which your choruses are steeped is no less capable of moving us. The general public may have been puzzled at first, but those who are best qualified to judge must give you your due. I have felt myself impelled to offer you all my congratulations, to which I would add, my dear brother poet, an expression of my very highest esteem.’ Albertine’s eyes, while she was reading this to us, had not ceased to sparkle. ‘Really, you’d think she must have cribbed it somewhere!’ she exclaimed, as she reached the end. ‘I should never have believed that Gisèle could hatch out anything like as good! And the poetry she brings in! Where on earth can she have got that from?’ Albertine’s admiration, with a change, it is true, of object, but with no loss—an increase, rather—of intensity, combined with the closest attention to what was being said, continued to make her eyes ‘start from her head’ all the time that Andrée (consulted as being the biggest of the band and more knowledgeable than the others) first of all spoke of Gisèle’s essay with a certain irony, then with a levity of tone which failed to conceal her underlying seriousness proceeded to reconstruct the letter in her own way. ‘It is not badly done,’ she told Albertine, ‘but if I were you and had the same subject set me, which is quite likely, as they do very often set that, I shouldn’t do it in that way. This is how I would tackle it. Well, first of all, if I had been Gisèle, I should not have let myself get tied up, I should have begun by making a rough sketch of what I was going to write on a separate piece of paper. On the top line I should state the question and give an account of the subject, then the general ideas to be worked into the development. After that, appreciation, style, conclusion. In that way, with a summary to refer to, you know where you are. But at the very start, where she begins her account of the subject, or, if you like, Titine, since it’s a letter we’re speaking of, where she comes to the matter, Gisèle has gone off the rails altogether. Writing to a person of the seventeenth century, Sophocles ought never to have said, ‘My dear friend.’’ ‘Why, of course, she ought to have said, ‘My dear Racine,’’ came impetuously from Albertine. ‘That would have been much better.’ ‘No,’ replied Andrée, with a trace of mockery in her tone, ‘she ought to have put ‘Sir.’ In the same way, to end up, she ought to have thought of something like, ‘Suffer me, Sir,’ (at the very most, ‘Dear Sir’) to inform you of the sense of high esteem with which I have the honour to be your servant.’ Then again, Gisèle says that the choruses in Athalie are a novelty. She is forgetting Esther, and two tragedies that are not much read now but happen to have been analysed this year by the Professor himself, so that you need only mention them, since he’s got them on the brain, and you’re bound to pass. I mean Les Juives, by Robert Gamier, and Montchrestien’s L’Aman.’ Andrée quoted these titles without managing quite to conceal a secret sense of benevolent superiority, which found expression in a smile, quite a delightful smile, for that matter. Albertine could contain herself no—longer. ‘Andrée, you really are a perfect marvel,’ she cried. ‘You must write down those names for me. Just fancy, what luck it would be if I got on to that, even in the oral, I should bring them in at once and make a colossal impression.’ But in the days that followed, every time that Albertine begged Andrée just to tell her again the names of those two plays so that she might write them down, her blue-stocking friend seemed most unfortunately to have forgotten them, and left her none the wiser. ‘And another thing,’ Andrée went on with the faintest note in her voice of scorn for companions so much younger than herself, though she relished their admiration and attached to the manner in which she herself would have composed the essay a greater importance than she wanted us to think, ‘Sophocles in the Shades must be kept well-informed of all that goes on. He must know, therefore, that it was not before the general public but before the King’s Majesty and a few privileged courtiers that Athalie was first played. What Gisèle says in this connexion of the esteem of qualified judges is not at all bad, but she might have gone a little further. Sophocles, now that he is immortal, might quite well have the gift of prophecy and announce that, according to Voltaire, Athalie is to be the supreme achievement not of Racine merely but of the human mind.’ Albertine was drinking in every word. Her eyes blazed. And it was with the utmost indignation that she rejected Rosemonde’s suggestion that they should begin to play. ‘And so,’ Andrée concluded, in the same easy, detached tone, blending a faint sneer with a certain warmth of conviction, ‘if Gisèle had noted down properly, first of all, the general ideas that she was going to develop, it might perhaps have occurred to her to do what I myself should have done, point out what a difference there is between the religious inspiration of Sophocles’s choruses and Racine’s. I should have made Sophocles remark that if Racine’s choruses are instinct with religious feeling like those of the Greek Tragedians, the gods are not the same. The God of Joad has nothing in common with the god of Sophocles. And that brings us quite naturally, when we have finished developing the subject, to our conclusion: What does it matter if their beliefs are different? Sophocles would hesitate to insist upon such a point. He would be afraid of wounding Racine’s convictions, and so, slipping in a few appropriate words on his masters at Port-Royal, he prefers to congratulate his disciple on the loftiness of his poetic genius.’
你向我们表明，你的合唱中所蕴含的宗教情感同样能够感动我们。公众一开始可能会感到困惑，但最有资格评判的人一定会给予你应有的评价。我感到自己不得不向您表示我所有的祝贺，我亲爱的诗人兄弟，我还要补充一句，这是我最崇高的敬意。 “真的，你会认为她一定是在某个地方抄袭了它！”当她到达终点时，她惊呼道。 “我从来不相信吉赛尔能孵化出这么好的东西！”还有她带来的诗歌！她到底从哪里得到这些？”阿尔贝蒂娜的钦佩，确实，对象发生了变化，但并没有失去——相反，强度有所增加，再加上对所说内容的最密切关注，继续说道为了让她的眼睛始终“从她的头脑中开始”，安德烈（被认为是乐队中最大的人，比其他人更有知识）首先以某种讽刺的方式谈到吉赛尔的文章，然后用一种轻浮的语气，未能掩饰她潜在的严肃性，继续以她自己的方式重建这封信。 “这件事做得还不错，”她对阿尔贝蒂娜说，“但如果我是你，给我设定了同样的主题——很可能，就像他们经常设定的那样，我就不应该那样做。”这就是我要解决的方法。好吧，首先，如果我是吉赛尔，我就不应该让自己陷入困境，我应该先在一张单独的纸上画出我要写的内容的粗略草图。在第一行，我应该陈述问题并说明主题，然后是开发中要考虑的总体想法。 之后是欣赏、风格、结论。这样，有了总结可供参考，你就知道自己在哪里了。但从一开始，当她开始讲述这个主题时，或者，如果你喜欢的话，蒂廷，因为我们正在谈论的是一封信，当她谈到这个问题时，吉赛尔就完全偏离了轨道。索福克勒斯在写信给一个十七世纪的人时，根本不应该说：“我亲爱的朋友。”“当然，她应该说：“我亲爱的拉辛。”阿尔贝蒂娜语气急躁地说。 “那会好得多。” “不，”安德烈回答道，语气中带着一丝嘲讽，“她应该说‘先生’。同样，为了结束，她应该想到诸如“请原谅我，先生”（至多是“亲爱的先生”）来告诉您我有幸成为您的仆人的崇高敬意。”吉赛尔再次说道，副歌部分在阿塔莉（Athalie）来说，这是一件新鲜事。她忘记了以斯帖，还有两部悲剧，现在读得不多，但恰好今年教授本人分析过，所以你只需要提到它们，因为他已经把它们记在脑子里了，你一定会通过。我指的是罗伯特·加米尔（Robert Gamier）的《Les Juives》和蒙克里斯斯蒂安（Montchrestien）的《阿曼》（L'Aman）。安德烈引用了这些标题，却没有完全掩饰一种秘密的仁慈的优越感，这种优越感通过微笑表达出来，就这一点来说，是一种非常令人愉快的微笑。阿尔贝蒂娜再也无法控制自己了。 “安德烈，你真是一个完美的奇迹，”她喊道。 ‘你必须帮我写下这些名字。想象一下，如果我能明白这一点，那该多好啊，即使是在口头上，我也应该立即把它们带进来，给人留下深刻的印象。但在接下来的日子里，每当阿尔贝蒂娜恳求安德烈再告诉她那两部戏剧的名字，以便她把它们写下来时，她的女才女朋友似乎很不幸地把它们忘记了，没有给她留下任何东西。越聪明。 “还有一件事，”安德烈继续说道，她的声音里带着一丝对比她年轻得多的同伴的蔑视，尽管她很享受他们的钦佩，并且认为她自己写这篇文章的方式比她更重要。希望我们思考，‘阴影中的索福克勒斯必须充分了解正在发生的一切。因此，他必须知道，阿塔莉首先不是在公众面前表演，而是在国王陛下和一些特权朝臣面前表演。吉赛尔在谈到尊重合格法官时所说的话一点也不坏，但她可能走得更远了一点。索福克勒斯现在已经不朽了，他很可能拥有预言的天赋，并宣布，根据伏尔泰的说法，阿塔莉不仅是拉辛的最高成就，而且是人类心灵的最高成就。她的眼睛闪闪发光。她极其愤慨地拒绝了罗斯蒙德关于他们应该开始比赛的建议。 “所以，”安德烈用同样轻松、超然的语气总结道，混合着淡淡的冷笑和某种温暖的信念，“如果吉赛尔首先正确地记下了她将要发展的总体想法，那么她也许会想到做我自己应该做的事情，指出索福克勒斯合唱团和拉辛合唱团的宗教灵感之间有多么不同。 我应该让索福克勒斯评论说，如果拉辛的合唱像希腊悲剧作家那样是本能的、带有宗教情感的，那么诸神就不一样了。约德的神与索福克勒斯的神没有任何共同之处。当我们完成这个主题的发展后，这很自然地给我们带来了我们的结论：如果他们的信仰不同又有什么关系呢？索福克勒斯对于坚持这一点犹豫不决。他担心会伤害拉辛的信念，因此，他在皇家港的老师们身上插上了几句适当的话，他更愿意祝贺他的弟子崇高的诗歌天才。’

Admiration and attention had so heated Albertine that great drops were rolling down her cheeks. Andrée preserved the unruffled calm of a female dandy. ‘It would not be a bad thing either to quote some of the opinions of famous critics,’ she added, before they began their game. ‘Yes,’ put in Albertine, ‘so I’ve been told. The best ones to quote, on the whole, are Sainte-Beuve and Merlet, aren’t they?’ ‘Well, you’re not absolutely wrong,’ Andrée told her, ‘Merlet and Sainte-Beuve are by no means bad. But you certainly ought to mention Deltour and Gascq-Desfossés.’ She refused, however, despite Albertine’s entreaties, to write down these two unfamiliar names.
钦佩和关注使阿尔贝蒂娜如此激动，以至于大滴大滴的泪珠从她的脸颊上滚落下来。安德烈保持着花花公子般的沉着冷静。 “引用一些著名评论家的观点也不是什么坏事，”她在游戏开始前补充道。 “是的，”阿尔贝蒂娜插嘴道，“别人是这么告诉我的。”总的来说，最值得引用的是圣伯夫和梅莱，不是吗？” “嗯，你并没有完全错，”安德烈告诉她，“梅莱和圣伯夫绝不是坏人。但你当然应该提到德尔图尔和加斯克-德福塞。”然而，尽管阿尔贝蒂娜苦苦哀求，她还是拒绝写下这两个陌生的名字。

Meanwhile I had been thinking of the little page torn from a scribbling block which Albertine had handed me. ‘I love you,’ she had written. And an hour later, as I scrambled down the paths which led back, a little too vertically for my liking, to Balbec, I said to myself that it was with her that I would have my romance.
与此同时，我一直在想阿尔贝蒂娜递给我的那张从涂鸦板上撕下的小纸页。 “我爱你，”她写道。一个小时后，当我爬上通往巴尔贝克的小路时，我对自己说，只有和她在一起，我才会拥有我的浪漫。

The state of being indicated by the presence of all the signs by which we are accustomed to recognise that we are in love, such as the orders which I left in the hotel not to awaken me whoever might ask to see me, unless it were one or other of the girls, the beating of my heart while I waited for her (whichever of them it might be that I was expecting) and on those mornings my fury if I had not succeeded in finding a barber to shave me, and must appear with the disfigurement of a hairy chin before Albertine, Rosemonde or Andrée, no doubt this state, recurring indifferently at the thought of one or another, was as different from what we call love as is from human life the life of the zoophytes, where an existence, an individuality, if we may term it, is divided up among several organisms. But natural history teaches us that such an organization of animal life is indeed to be observed, and that our own life, provided only that we have outgrown the first phase, is no less positive as to the reality of states hitherto unsuspected by us, through which we have to pass, and can then abandon them altogether. Such was for me this state of love divided among several girls at once. Divided—say rather undivided, for more often than not what was so delicious to me, different from the rest of the world, what was beginning to become so precious to me that the hope of finding it again on the morrow was the greatest happiness in my life, was rather the whole of the group of girls, taken as they were all together on those afternoons on the cliffs, during those lifeless hours, upon that strip of grass on which were laid those forms, so exciting to my imagination, of Albertine, Rosemonde, Andrée; and that without my being able to say which of them it was that made those scenes so precious to me, which of them I was most anxious to love. At the start of a new love as at its ending, we are not exclusively attached to the object of that love, but rather the desire to be loving from which it will presently emerge (and, later on, the memory which it leaves behind) wanders voluptuously through a zone of interchangeable charms—simply natural charms, it may be, gratification of appetite, enjoyment of one’s surroundings—which are so far harmonised among themselves that it does not in the presence of any one of them feel itself out of place. Besides, as my perception of them was not yet dulled by familiarity, I had still the faculty of seeing them, that is to say of feeling a profound astonishment every time that I found myself in their presence. No doubt this astonishment is to some extent due to the fact that the other person on such occasions presents himself in a fresh aspect; but so great is the multiformity of each of us, so abundant the wealth of lines of face and body, lines so few of which leave any trace, once we have parted from the other person, on the arbitrary simplicity of our memory. As our mind has selected some peculiarity that had struck us, has isolated it, exaggerated it, making of a woman who has appeared to us tall, a sketch in which her figure is absurdly elongated, or of a woman who has seemed to be pink-cheeked and golden-haired a pure ‘Harmony in pink and gold,’ so, the moment that woman is once again standing before us, all the other forgotten qualities which restore the balance of that one remembered feature at once assail us, in their confused complexity, diminishing her height, paling her cheeks, and substituting for what we have come to her solely to seek other peculiarities which we remember now that we did notice the first time, and fail to understand how we can so far have forgotten to look out for again. We thought we remembered; it was a peahen, surely; we go to see it and find a peony. And this inevitable astonishment is not the only one; for, side by side with it comes another, born of the difference, not now between the stereotyped forms of memory and reality, but between the person whom we saw last time and him who appears to us to-day from another angle and shews us another aspect. The human face is indeed, like the face of the God of some Oriental theogony, a whole cluster of faces, crowded together but on different surfaces so that one does not see them all at once.
一种我们习惯于承认我们相爱的所有迹象的存在所表明的状态，例如我留在酒店的命令，无论谁想见我，都不要叫醒我，除非是一个人或其他女孩，当我等待她时，我的心在跳动（无论我在等谁），在那些早晨，如果我没有成功找到理发师给我刮胡子，并且必须出现，我会感到愤怒阿尔贝蒂娜、罗斯蒙德或安德烈面前毛茸茸的下巴毁容了，毫无疑问，这种状态，一想到其中一个或另一个，就冷漠地反复出现，与我们所说的爱情不同，就像人类的生活与动物的生活不同一样，在植物中，存在，如果我们可以称之为个体的话，它被划分为几个有机体。但自然历史告诉我们，动物生命的这种组织确实是值得观察的，而我们自己的生命，只要我们已经超越了第一阶段，对于迄今为止我们尚未怀疑过的状态的现实来说，通过我们必须通过这一点，然后才能完全放弃它们。对我来说，这就是同时分配给几个女孩的爱的状态。 分开——说得更确切些，因为更多时候，对我来说如此美味的东西，与世界其他地方不同，对我来说开始变得如此珍贵，以至于希望明天能再次找到它，这就是最大的幸福。我的生活，更像是一群女孩的全部，在那些下午，在悬崖上，在那些毫无生机的时刻，在那片草地上，那些形状让我的想象力如此激动人心，被拍摄为她们在一起的样子。阿尔贝蒂娜、罗斯蒙德、安德烈；我无法说出是哪一个让那些场景对我如此珍贵，哪一个是我最渴望去爱的。在一段新的爱情开始时和结束时，我们并不完全依恋那个爱的对象，而是对爱的渴望，它很快就会从中出现（以及后来它留下的记忆）纵情地漫步在一个充满可互换魅力的区域——可能只是自然的魅力，满足食欲，享受周围的环境——到目前为止，这些魅力彼此之间是和谐的，以至于在其中任何一个人在场的情况下，它都不会感到格格不入。 。此外，由于我对他们的感知还没有因熟悉而变得迟钝，所以我仍然有能力看到他们，也就是说，每当我发现自己在他们面前时，我都会感到深深的惊讶。毫无疑问，这种惊讶在某种程度上是由于对方在这种场合以一种新鲜的面貌出现的。但我们每个人的多样性是如此之大，面部和身体的线条如此丰富，而一旦我们与对方分开，在我们任意简单的记忆中留下任何痕迹的线条却如此之少。 当我们的头脑选择了一些让我们印象深刻的奇特之处时，将其孤立起来，夸大了它，制作了一个在我们看来很高的女人，一幅她的身材被荒谬地拉长的素描，或者一个看起来粉红色的女人——脸颊金黄的头发是一种纯粹的“粉红色和金色的和谐”，所以，当那个女人再次站在我们面前时，所有其他被遗忘的品质立即袭击了我们，这些品质恢复了那个记忆中的特征的平衡。混乱的复杂性，降低了她的身高，苍白了她的脸颊，并取代了我们来到她这里只是为了寻找其他特征，我们现在记得我们确实第一次注意到这些特征，并且无法理解我们迄今为止如何忘记了看再次出去。我们以为我们记得；肯定是一只孔雀。我们去看它，发现一朵牡丹。这种不可避免的惊讶并不是唯一的。因为，与它并存的另一个人，是由差异而生的，现在不是记忆和现实的刻板形式之间的差异，而是我们上次看到的人和今天从另一个角度出现在我们面前并向我们展示的人之间的差异。另一个方面。人的脸确实就像某些东方神学中神的脸一样，是一整套脸，挤在一起但在不同的表面上，因此人们无法同时看到它们。

But to a great extent our astonishment springs from the other person’s presenting to us also a face that is the same as before. It would require so immense an effort to reconstruct everything that has been imparted to us by things other than ourselves—were it only the taste of a fruit—that no sooner is the impression received than we begin imperceptibly to descend the slope of memory and, without noticing anything, in a very short time, we have come a long way from what we actually felt. So that every fresh encounter is a sort of rectification, which brings us back to what we really did see. We have no longer any recollection of this, to such an extent does what we call remembering a person consist really in forgetting him. But so long as we can still see at the moment when the forgotten aspect appears, we recognise it, we are obliged to correct the straying line; thus the perpetual and fruitful surprise which made so salutary and invigorating for me these daily outings with the charming damsels of the sea shore, consisted fully as much in recognition as in discovery. When there is added to this the agitation aroused by what these girls were to me, which was never quite what I had supposed, and meant that my expectancy of our next meeting resembled not so much my expectancy the time before as the still throbbing memory of our latest conversation, it will be realised that each of our excursions made a violent interruption in the course of my thoughts and moved them clean out of the direction which, in the solitude of my own room, I had been able to trace for them at my leisure. That plotted course was forgotten, had ceased to exist, when I returned home buzzing like a hive of bees with remarks which had disquieted me when I heard them and were still echoing in my brain. The other person is destroyed when we cease to see him; after which his next appearance means a fresh creation of him, different from that which immediately preceded it, if not from them all. For the minimum variation that is to be found in these creations is duality. If we have in mind a strong and searching glance, a bold manner, it is inevitably, next time, by a half-languid profile, a sort of dreamy gentleness, overlooked by us in our previous impression, that we shall be, on meeting him again, astonished, that is to say almost solely struck. In confronting our memory with the new reality it is this that will mark the extent of our disappointment or surprise, will appear to us like the revised version of an earlier reality warning us that we had not remembered it correctly. In its turn, the facial aspect neglected the time before, and for that very reason the most striking this time, the most real, the most documentary, will become a matter for dreams and memories. It is a languorous and rounded profile, a gentle, dreamy expression which we shall now desire to see again. And then, next time, such resolution, such strength of character as there may be in the piercing eyes, the pointed nose, the tight lips, will come to correct the discrepancy between our desire and the object to which it has supposed itself to correspond. It is understood, of course, that this loyalty to the first and purely physical impressions which I formed afresh at each encounter with my friends did not involve only their facial appearance, since the reader has seen that I was sensible also of their voices, more disquieting still, perhaps (for not only does a voice offer the same strange and sensuous surfaces as a face, it issues from that unknown, inaccessible region the mere thought of which sets the mind swimming with unattainable kisses), their voices each like the unique sound of a little instrument into which the player put all her artistry and which was found only in her possession. Traced by a casual inflexion, a sudden deep chord in one of their voices would astonish me when I recognised after having forgotten it. So much so that the corrections which after every fresh meeting I was obliged to make so as to ensure absolute accuracy were as much those of a tuner or singing-master as a draughtsman’s.
但在很大程度上，我们的惊讶源于对方向我们展示了一张与以前相同的面孔。要重建我们以外的事物赋予我们的一切——如果只是水果的味道——需要付出巨大的努力，以至于一旦收到印象，我们就开始不知不觉地走下记忆的斜坡，在没有注意到任何事情的情况下，在很短的时间内，我们已经远离了我们实际的感受。因此，每一次新的遭遇都是一种纠正，它让我们回到我们真正看到的东西。我们对此已经没有任何记忆了，所谓记住一个人，实际上就是忘记他了。但只要我们在被遗忘的一面出现的那一刻仍然能够看到、认识到它，我们就有义务纠正偏离的线；因此，每天与迷人的海滨少女一起外出游玩，给我带来的永久而富有成果的惊喜，既是发现，也是发现，对我来说是有益和充满活力的。再加上这些女孩对我来说所引起的不安，这从来都不是我想象的那样，这意味着我对我们下次见面的期望与其说是我之前的期望，不如说是我仍然悸动的记忆我们最近的一次谈话中，我们会意识到，我们的每一次旅行都严重打断了我的思维过程，并将它们完全移离了我在自己房间的孤独中能够追踪的方向。我的闲暇。当我像蜂巢一样嗡嗡作响地回到家时，那条计划好的路线被遗忘了，已经不复存在了，当我听到这些言论时，这些言论让我感到不安，但这些言论仍然在我的脑海中回响。 当我们不再见到另一个人时，他就被毁灭了；此后，他的下一次出现意味着他的全新创造，与之前的不同，即使不是全部。因为在这些创作中可以发现的最小变化就是二元性。如果我们心中有一种强烈而敏锐的目光，一种大胆的态度，下次见面时，我们就不可避免地会通过半慵懒的侧影，一种梦幻般的温柔，而这在我们之前的印象中被我们忽视了。他再次感到惊讶，也就是说，几乎完全震惊了。当我们的记忆面对新的现实时，这将标志着我们失望或惊讶的程度，对我们来说就像早期现实的修订版本，警告我们我们没有正确记住它。反过来，面部方面以前被忽视了，因此这次最引人注目、最真实、最纪实的，将成为梦想和记忆的事物。这是一种慵懒而圆润的轮廓，一种温柔而梦幻的表情，我们现在希望再次看到它。然后，下一次，锐利的眼睛、尖尖的鼻子、紧闭的嘴唇中可能存在的这种决心、这种性格力量，将会纠正我们的欲望和它自以为对应的对象之间的差异。 。 当然，可以理解的是，这种对我每次与朋友见面时重新形成的第一印象和纯粹的身体印象的忠诚不仅仅涉及他们的面部表情，因为读者已经看到我对他们的声音也很敏感，更多也许仍然令人不安（因为声音不仅提供了与面孔相同的奇怪和感性的表面，而且它来自那个未知的、难以接近的区域，仅仅想到这个区域就会让心灵在难以企及的吻中畅游），他们的声音每一个都像独特的一种小乐器的声音，演奏者将她所有的艺术才华都投入其中，而这种乐器只有她自己拥有。当我忘记了之后，当我认出他们的声音时，他们的声音中突然出现了一种深沉的和弦，伴随着随意的语调变化，这让我大吃一惊。以至于在每次新的会议之后，我都必须进行修正，以确保绝对的准确性，就像调音师或歌唱大师和制图师一样。

As for the harmonious cohesion in which had been neutralised for some time, by the resistance that each brought to bear against the expansion of the others, the several waves of sentiment set in motion in me by these girls, it was broken in Albertine’s favour one afternoon when we were playing the game of ‘ferret.’ It was in a little wood on the cliff. Stationed between two girls, strangers to the little band, whom the band had brought in its train because we wanted that day to have a bigger party than usual, I gazed enviously at Albertine’s neighbour, a young man, saying to myself that if I had been in his place I could have been touching my friend’s hands all those miraculous moments which might perhaps never recur, and that this would have been but the first stage in a great advance. Already, by itself, and even without the consequences which it would probably have involved, the contact of Albertine’s hands would have been delicious to me. Not that I had never seen prettier hands than hers. Even in the group of her friends, those of Andrée, slender hands and much more finely modelled, had as it were a private life of their own, obedient to the commands of their mistress, but independent, and used often to strain out before her like a leash of thoroughbred greyhounds, with lazy pauses, long dreams, sudden stretchings of a joint, seeing which Elstir had made a number of studies of these hands. And in one of them, in which you saw Andrée warming her hands at the fire, they had, with the light behind them, the gilded transparency of two autumn leaves. But, plumper than these, the hands of Albertine would yield for a moment, then resist the pressure of the hand that clasped them, giving a sensation that was quite peculiar to themselves. The act of pressing Albertine’s hand had a sensual sweetness which was in keeping somehow with the rosy, almost mauve colouring of her skin. That pressure seemed to allow you to penetrate into the girl’s being, to plumb the depths of her senses, like the ringing sound of her laughter, indecent as may be the cooing of doves or certain animal cries. She was the sort of woman with whom shaking hands affords so much pleasure that one feels grateful to civilisation for having made of the handclasp a lawful act between young men and girls when they meet. If the arbitrary code of good manners had replaced the clasp of hands by some other gesture, I should have gazed, day after day, at the unattainable hands of Albertine with a curiosity to know the feel of them as ardent as was my curiosity to learn the savour of her cheeks. But in the pleasure of holding her hand unrestrictedly in mine, had I been next to her at ‘ferret’ I did not envisage that pleasure alone; what avowals, declarations silenced hitherto by my bashfulness, I could have conveyed by certain pressures of hand on hand; on her side, how easy it would have been for her, in responding by other pressures, to shew me that she accepted; what complicity, what a vista of happiness stood open! My love would be able to make more advance in a few minutes spent thus by her side than it had yet made in all the time that I had known her. Feeling that they would last but a short time, were rapidly nearing their end, since presumably we were not going on much longer with this game, and that once it was over I should be too late, I could not keep in my place for another moment. I let myself deliberately be caught with the ring, and, having gone into the middle, when the ring passed I pretended not to see it but followed its course with my eyes, waiting for the moment when it should come into the hands of the young man next to Albertine, who herself, pealing with helpless laughter, and in the excitement and pleasure of the game, was blushing like a rose. ‘Why, we really are in the Fairy Wood!’ said Andrée to me, pointing to the trees that grew all round, with a smile in her eyes which was meant only for me and seemed to pass over the heads of the other players, as though we two alone were clever enough to double our parts, and make, in connexion with the game we were playing, a remark of a poetic nature. She even carried the delicacy of her fancy so far as to sing half-unconsciously: ‘The Ferret of the Wood has passed this way, Sweet Ladies; he has passed by this way, the Ferret of Fairy Wood!’ like those people who cannot visit Trianon without getting up a party in Louis XVI costume, or think in effective to have a song sung to its original setting. I should no doubt have been sorry that I could see no charm in this piece of mimicry, had I had time to think of it. But my thoughts were all elsewhere. The players began to shew surprise at my stupidity in never getting the ring. I was looking at Albertine, so pretty, so indifferent, so gay, who, though she little knew it, was to be my neighbour when at last I should catch the ring in the right hands, thanks to a stratagem which she did not suspect, and would certainly have resented if she had. In the heat of the game her long hair had become loosened, and fell in curling locks over her cheeks on which it served to intensify, by its dry brownness, the carnation pink. ‘You have the tresses of Laura Dianti, of Eleanor of Guyenne, and of her descendant so beloved of Chateaubriand. You ought always to wear your hair half down like that,’ I murmured in her ear as an excuse for drawing close to her. Suddenly the ring passed to her neighbour. I sprang upon him at once, forced open his hands and seized it; he was obliged now to take my place inside the circle, while I took his beside Albertine. A few minutes earlier I had been envying this young man, when I saw that his hands as they slipped over the cord were constantly brushing against hers. Now that my turn was come, too shy to seek, too much moved to enjoy this contact, I no longer felt anything save the rapid and painful beating of my heart. At one moment Albertine leaned towards me, with an air of connivance, her round and rosy face, making a show of having the ring, so as to deceive the ferret, and keep him from looking in the direction in which she was just going to pass it. I realised at once that this was the sole object of Albertine’s mysterious, confidential gaze, but I was a little shocked to see thus kindle in her eyes the image—purely fictitious, invented to serve the needs of the game—of a secret, an understanding between her and myself which did not exist, but which from that moment seemed to me to be possible and would have been divinely sweet. While I was still being swept aloft by this thought, I felt a slight pressure of Albertine’s hand against mine, and her caressing finger slip under my finger along the cord, and I saw her, at the same moment, give me a wink which she tried to make pass unperceived by the others. At once, a mass of hopes, invisible hitherto by myself, crystallised within me. ‘She is taking advantage of the game to let me feel that she really does love me,’ I thought to myself, in an acme of joy, from which no sooner had I reached it than I fell, on hearing Albertine mutter furiously: ‘Why can’t you take it? I’ve been shoving it at you for the last hour.’ Stunned with grief, I let go the cord, the ferret saw that ring and swooped down on it, and I had to go back into the middle, where I stood helpless, in despair, looking at the unbridled rout which continued to circle round me, stung by the jeering shouts of all the players, obliged, in reply, to laugh when I had so little mind for laughter, while Albertine kept on repeating: ‘People can’t play if they don’t pay attention, and spoil the game for the others. He shan’t be asked again when we’re going to play, Andrée; if he is, I don’t come.’ Andrée, with a mind above the game, still chanting her ‘Fairy Wood’ which, in a spirit of imitation, Rosemonde had taken up too, but without conviction, sought to make a diversion from Albertine’s reproaches by saying to me: ‘We’re quite close to those old Creuniers you wanted so much to see. Look, I’ll take you there by a dear little path, and we’ll leave these silly idiots to go on playing like babies in the nursery.’ As Andrée was extremely nice to me, as we went along I said to her everything about Albertine that seemed calculated to make me attractive to the latter. Andrée replied that she too was very fond of Albertine, thought her charming; in spite of which the compliments that I was paying to her friend did not seem altogether to please her. Suddenly, in the little sunken path, I stopped short, touched to the heart by an exquisite memory of my childhood. I had just recognised, by the fretted and glossy leaves which it thrust out towards me, a hawthorn-bush, flowerless, alas, now that spring was over. Around me floated the atmosphere of far-off Months of Mary, of Sunday afternoons, of beliefs, or errors long ago forgotten. I wanted to stay it in its passage. I stood still for a moment, and Andrée, with a charming divination of what was in my mind, left me to converse with the leaves of the bush. I asked them for news of the flowers, those hawthorn flowers that were like merry little girls, headstrong, provocative, pious. ‘The young ladies have been gone from here for a long time now,’ the leaves told me. And perhaps they thought that, for the great friend of those young ladies that I pretended to be, I seemed to have singularly little knowledge of their habits. A great friend, but one who had never been to see them again for all these years, despite his promises. And yet, as Gilberte had been my first love among girls, so these had been my first love among flowers. ‘Yes, I know all that, they leave about the middle of June,’ I answered, ‘but I am so delighted to see the place where they stayed when they were here. They came to see me, too, at Combray, in my room; my mother brought them when I was ill in bed. And we used to meet on Saturday evenings, too, at the Month of Mary devotions. Can they get to them from here?’ ‘Oh, of course! Why, they make a special point of having our young ladies at Saint-Denis du Désert, the church near here.’ ‘Then, if I want to see them now?’ ‘Oh, not before May, next year.’ ‘But I can be sure that they will be here?’ ‘They come regularly every year.’ ‘Only I don’t know whether it will be easy to find the place.’ ‘Oh, dear, yes! They are so gay, the young ladies, they stop laughing only to sing hymns together, so that you can’t possibly miss them, you can tell by the scent from the other end of the path.’
至于和谐的凝聚力，这种凝聚力已经被瓦解了一段时间，因为彼此对彼此的扩张产生了抵制，这些女孩在我身上激起了几波情绪，但在阿尔贝蒂娜的支持下，它被打破了。下午，我们在悬崖边的一个小树林里玩“雪貂”游戏。我站在两个女孩中间，她们对这个小乐队来说是陌生人，乐队把她们带进了队伍，因为我们希望那天能举办一个比平常更大的聚会，我羡慕地看着阿尔贝蒂娜的邻居，一个年轻人，对自己说，如果我有如果我处于他的位置，我可能会触摸我朋友的手，所有那些可能永远不会重现的奇迹般的时刻，而这只是伟大进步的第一阶段。就其本身而言，即使没有可能带来的后果，阿尔贝蒂娜双手的接触对我来说也是一种享受。并不是说我从未见过比她的手更漂亮的手。即使在她的朋友圈中，安德烈的双手纤细，造型也更加精致，似乎有自己的私人生活，听从情妇的命令，但又独立，经常在她面前竭尽全力。就像纯种灰狗的皮带一样，有懒惰的停顿，长长的梦想，关节的突然伸展，埃尔斯蒂尔对这双手做了很多研究。在其中一张照片中，你可以看到安德烈在火边暖手，在灯光的照射下，它们呈现出两片秋叶般的镀金透明感。不过，阿尔贝蒂娜的手比这些人更丰满，它会暂时屈服，然后抵抗住握住它们的手的压力，给人一种非常独特的感觉。 按下阿尔贝蒂娜的手的动作有一种肉欲的甜蜜，这与她玫瑰色、近乎紫红色的皮肤颜色相得益彰。那种压力似乎让你能够深入女孩的内心，探究她感官的深处，就像她清脆的笑声，就像鸽子的咕咕声或某些动物的叫声一样不雅。与她握手会带来如此多的乐趣，人们会感激文明，因为文明使握手成为年轻男女见面时的合法行为。如果武断的礼貌准则以某种其他姿势取代了握手，我就会日复一日地凝视着阿尔贝蒂娜那双高不可攀的双手，好奇地想知道它们的感觉，就像我对学习的好奇心一样她脸颊的味道。但在不受限制地握着她的手的快乐中，如果我在“雪貂”旁边她旁边，我不会单独想象这种快乐；迄今为止，由于我的害羞，我本可以通过一定的压力来传达哪些坦白和声明？就她而言，在应对其他压力时，她是多么容易向我表明她接受了；这是何等的同谋，何等的幸福景象！在她身边度过的几分钟里，我的爱将能够比我认识她以来所取得的进步更多。感觉他们只会持续很短的时间，很快就接近结束了，因为大概我们不会再玩这个游戏太久了，一旦结束我就太晚了，我不能再呆在自己的位置上玩另一个游戏了。片刻。 我故意让自己被戒指抓住，进入中间，当戒指经过时，我假装没有看到它，而是用眼睛追随它的轨迹，等待它落入年轻人手中的那一刻。阿尔贝蒂娜旁边有一个男人，而阿尔贝蒂娜本人则发出无助的笑声，在游戏的兴奋和快乐中，脸红得像一朵玫瑰花。 “哎呀，我们真的是在仙女森林里了！”安德烈指着周围生长的树木对我说道，她眼中带着只对我来说的微笑，似乎从其他玩家的头上掠过，就好像我们两个人足够聪明，可以加倍我们的角色，并结合我们正在玩的游戏，发表诗意的评论。她甚至还发挥自己的想象力，半自觉地唱道：“树林里的雪貂已经走过了这条路，亲爱的女士们；”他走过这条路，仙林的雪貂！”就像那些不穿着路易十六服装参加派对就不能参观特里亚农的人，或者想有效地让一首歌曲按照原来的背景演唱的人一样。如果我有时间思考的话，我无疑会感到遗憾，因为我看不出这种模仿的魅力。但我的心思全在别处。球员们开始对我从未获得戒指的愚蠢表现出惊讶。我看着阿尔贝蒂娜，她那么漂亮，那么冷漠，那么快乐，尽管她对此知之甚少，但当我最终将戒指接在右手时，多亏了她没有怀疑的计谋，她将成为我的邻居。 ，如果她这样做的话肯定会感到不满。在比赛的激烈过程中，她的长发变得松散，卷曲的头发垂落在脸颊上，干燥的棕色使康乃馨的粉红色更加浓郁。 “你有劳拉·迪安蒂（Laura Dianti）的头发，吉耶纳的埃莉诺（Eleanor of Guyenne）的头发，以及夏多布里昂（Chateaubriand）深爱的她的后裔的头发。你应该永远把头发梳成这样。”我在她耳边低声说道，以此作为靠近她的借口。突然，戒指传给了她的邻居。我立刻扑向他，强行张开他的双手，抓住了他。现在他不得不在圈子里代替我的位置，而我则代替他坐在阿尔贝蒂娜旁边。几分钟前，我还在羡慕这个年轻人，当我看到他的手滑过绳子时，不断地擦过她的手。现在轮到我了，我太害羞而不敢寻求，太感动而无法享受这种接触，除了心脏快速而痛苦的跳动之外，我不再有任何感觉。阿尔贝蒂娜一会儿向我倾身，一副纵容的样子，她圆圆的、红润的脸，假装带着戒指，以欺骗雪貂，不让他看她正要去的方向。交上来。我立刻意识到，这就是阿尔贝蒂娜神秘而私密的目光的唯一目标，但我有点震惊地看到，她的眼中燃起了一个秘密、一个秘密的形象——纯粹是虚构的，是为了满足游戏的需要而发明的。她和我之间的理解并不存在，但从那一刻起，我觉得这种理解是可能的，而且会是神圣的甜蜜。当我还沉浸在这样的想法中时，我感觉到阿尔贝蒂娜的手轻轻地压住了我的手，她爱抚的手指顺着绳子滑到了我的手指下，我看见她同时向我使了个眼色，她对我眨了眨眼睛。试图在不被其他人察觉的情况下通过。迄今为止，我自己看不见的大量希望立刻在我内心结晶。 “她是在利用这个游戏，让我感觉到她是真的爱我。”我心中欣喜若狂，刚一达到这个境界，就听到阿尔贝蒂娜愤怒地嘟哝道：“为什么你不能接受？过去一个小时我一直在把它推向你。”我悲痛欲绝，松开了绳子，雪貂看到了那个环，猛扑向它，我不得不回到中间，我无助地站在那里，绝望地看着继续围绕着我的肆无忌惮的溃败，所有球员的嘲笑声都刺痛了我，当我没有心情笑时，我不得不笑起来，而阿尔贝蒂娜却不断地重复着：“人们可以如果他们不注意就不要玩，并且会破坏其他人的游戏。安德烈，我们什么时候比赛，不会再问他了；如果他是，我就不来了。”安德烈的心态高于比赛，仍在吟唱她的“仙女森林”，罗斯蒙德也本着模仿的精神，也采取了这种做法，但没有说服力，试图分散注意力。为了摆脱阿尔贝蒂娜的责备，她对我说：“我们和那些你非常想见的老克罗尼耶人很亲近。”听着，我会带你走一条可爱的小路，然后我们就让这些愚蠢的白痴继续像婴儿一样在托儿所里玩耍。”安德烈对我非常好，当我们一起走的时候，我对她说了一切关于阿尔贝蒂娜的事似乎是故意让我对后者有吸引力。安德烈回答说，她也很喜欢阿尔贝蒂娜，认为她很有魅力。尽管如此，我对她朋友的赞美似乎并不完全令她高兴。突然，在那条凹陷的小路上，我停了下来，童年的美好回忆触动了我的心。 我刚刚从它向我伸出的那片粗糙而光滑的叶子上认出了一棵山楂树，唉，现在春天已经过去了，没有花。我周围弥漫着遥远的玛丽月、周日下午、信仰或早已被遗忘的错误的气氛。我想把它留在它的通道里。我静静地站了一会儿，安德烈对我的想法进行了迷人的占卜，让我与灌木丛的叶子交谈。我向他们打听花的消息，那些山楂花，像快乐的小女孩，任性、挑衅、虔诚。 “年轻的女士们已经离开这里很长时间了，”叶子告诉我。也许他们认为，对于我假装的那些年轻女士的好朋友来说，我似乎对她们的习惯知之甚少。他是一位很好的朋友，但尽管他做出了许多承诺，但多年来却再也没有见过他们。然而，正如吉尔贝特是我在女孩中的初恋一样，这些也是我在花中的初恋。 “是的，我知道这一切，他们大约六月中旬离开，”我回答道，“但我很高兴看到他们在这里时住过的地方。他们也来贡布雷我的房间里看望我。当我卧病在床时，我母亲带来了它们。我们也常常在周六晚上的玛丽月灵修活动中见面。他们能从这里找到他们吗？” “哦，当然！为什么，他们特意让我们的年轻女士们来到附近的圣但尼杜沙漠教堂。” “那么，我现在想见她们吗？” “哦，明年五月之前不行。” “但是我可以肯定他们会在这里吗？” “他们每年都会定期来。” “只是我不知道是否容易找到这个地方。” “哦，天哪，是的！ 她们是如此快乐，年轻的女士们，她们停止笑只是为了一起唱赞美诗，这样你就不可能错过她们，你可以从小路另一端的气味中看出。’

I caught up Andrée, and began again to sing Albertine’s praises. It was inconceivable to me that she would not repeat what I said to her friend, seeing the emphasis that I put into it. And yet I never heard that Albertine had been told. Andrée had, nevertheless, a far greater understanding of the things of the heart, a refinement of nice behaviour; finding the look, the word, the action that could most ingeniously give pleasure, keeping to herself a remark that might possibly cause pain, making a sacrifice (and making it as though it were no sacrifice at all) of an afternoon’s play, or it might be an ‘at home’ or a garden party in order to stay beside a friend who was feeling sad, and thus shew him or her that she preferred the simple company of a friend to frivolous pleasures; these were her habitual delicacies. But when one knew her a little better one would have said that it was with her as with those heroic cravens who wish not to be afraid, and whose bravery is especially meritorious, one would have said that in her true character there was none of that generosity which she displayed at every moment out of moral distinction, or sensibility, or a noble desire to shew herself a true friend. When I listened to all the charming things she was saying to me about a possible affection between Albertine and myself it seemed as though she were bound to do everything in her power to bring it to pass. Whereas, by mere chance perhaps, not even of the least of the various minor opportunities which were at her disposal and might have proved effective in uniting me to Albertine did she ever make any use, and I would not swear that my effort to make myself loved by Albertine did not—if not provoke in her friend secret stratagems destined to bring it to nought—at any rate arouse in her an anger which however she took good care to hide and against which even, in her delicacy of feeling, she may herself have fought. Of the countless refinements of goodness which Andrée shewed Albertine would have been incapable, and yet I was not certain of the underlying goodness of the former as I was to be, later on, of the latter’s. Shewing herself always tenderly indulgent to the exuberant frivolity of Albertine, Andrée would greet her with speeches, with smiles which were those of a friend, better still, she always acted towards her as a friend. I have seen her, day after day, in order to give the benefit of her own wealth, to bring some happiness to this penniless friend take, without any possibility of advantage to herself, more pains than a courtier would take who sought to win his sovereign’s favour. She was charmingly gentle always, charming in her choice of sweet, pathetic expressions, when you said to her what a pity it was that Albertine was so poor, and took infinitely more trouble on her behalf than she would have taken for a wealthy friend. But if anyone were to hint that Albertine was perhaps not quite so poor as people made out, a just discernible cloud would veil the light of Andrée’s eyes and brow; she seemed out of temper. And if you went on to say that after all Albertine might perhaps be less difficult to marry off than people supposed, she would vehemently contradict you, repeating almost angrily: ‘Oh dear, no; she will never get married! I am quite certain of it; it is a dreadful worry to me!’ In so far as I myself was concerned, Andrée was the only one of the girls who would never have repeated to me anything not very pleasant that might have been said about me by a third person; more than that, if it were I who told her what had been said she would make a pretence of not believing it, or would furnish some explanation which made the remark inoffensive; it is the aggregate of these qualities that goes by the name of tact. Tact is the attribute of those people who, if we have called a man out in a duel, congratulate us and add that there was no necessity, really; so as to enhance still further in our own eyes the courage of which we have given proof without having been forced to do lo. They are the opposite of the people who, in similar circumstances, say: ‘It must have been a horrid nuisance for you, fighting a duel, but on the other hand you couldn’t possibly swallow an insult like that, there was nothing else to be done.’ But as there, is always something to be said on both sides, if the pleasure, or at least the indifference shewn by our friends in repeating something offensive that they have heard said about us, proves that they do not exactly put themselves in our skin at the moment of speaking, but thrust in the pin-point, turn the knife-blade as though it were gold-beater’s skin and not human, the art of always keeping hidden from us what might be disagreeable to us in what they have heard said about our actions, or in the opinion which those actions have led the speakers themselves to form of us, proves that there is in the other kind of friends, in the friends who are so full of tact, a strong vein of dissimulation. It does no harm if indeed they are incapable of thinking evil, and if what is said by other people only makes them suffer as it would make us. I supposed this to be the case with Andrée, without, however, being absolutely sure.
我追上了安德烈，又开始歌颂阿尔贝蒂娜。看到我如此强调，我很难想象她不会重复我对她朋友说的话。但我从未听说有人告诉过阿尔贝蒂娜。尽管如此，安德烈对内心的事物有着更深刻的理解，也更懂得良好的行为举止。寻找最巧妙地给人带来快乐的表情、言语、动作，保留可能引起痛苦的言论，为一下午的玩耍做出牺牲（并使其看起来根本没有牺牲），或者可能是“在家”或花园聚会，以便留在感到悲伤的朋友身边，从而向他或她表明，她更喜欢朋友的简单陪伴，而不是轻浮的快乐；这些都是她惯常吃的美味佳肴。但如果对她了解一点，就会说，她就像那些不畏惧的英雄胆小鬼，他们的勇敢是特别有功劳的，人们会说，在她的真实性格中，没有这些。她每时每刻都表现出慷慨，要么是出于道德上的区别，要么是出于敏感，要么是出于想成为真正朋友的崇高愿望。当我听到她对我谈论阿尔贝蒂娜和我之间可能存在的感情时，我觉得她似乎必须竭尽全力去实现它。 然而，也许仅仅是偶然，她所拥有的、可能被证明能有效地使我与阿尔贝蒂娜结合在一起的各种次要机会，她都没有利用过，我不敢发誓，我为使自己阿尔贝蒂娜所爱的人，即使没有在她的朋友中激起注定要使之化为泡影的秘密诡计，至少也没有激起她的愤怒，尽管她很小心地隐藏着这种愤怒，但即使在她感情细腻的情况下，她也可能会反对这种愤怒。她自己也曾战斗过。安德烈向阿尔贝蒂娜展示的无数的善良是阿尔贝蒂娜无法做到的，但我并不确定前者的潜在善良，就像我后来对后者的善良一样。安德烈总是对阿尔贝蒂娜的轻浮表现出温柔的纵容，她会用朋友般的言语和微笑来迎接她，更妙的是，她总是像朋友一样对待她。我日复一日地看到她为了利用自己的财富，为了给这个身无分文的朋友带来一些幸福，在没有给自己带来任何好处的情况下，比一个试图赢得他的朝臣所付出的痛苦还要多。君主的青睐。当你对她说阿尔贝蒂娜如此贫穷，为她付出了比她为一个富有的朋友多得多的麻烦时，她总是那么迷人，她选择的甜蜜而可怜的表情令人着迷。但如果有人暗示阿尔贝蒂娜或许并不像人们想象的那么穷，那么安德烈眼睛和眉毛上的光芒就会被一层清晰可辨的乌云遮住。她看上去脾气不太好。 如果你接着说阿尔贝蒂娜也许并不像人们想象的那么难嫁人，她就会强烈反驳你，几乎是愤怒地重复道：“噢，天哪，不；”她永远不会结婚！我对此十分确定；就我自己而言，安德烈是唯一一个永远不会向我重复第三者可能对我说的任何不愉快的事情的女孩；这对我来说是一个可怕的担忧。更重要的是，如果是我告诉她所说的话，她会假装不相信，或者会提供一些解释，使这句话变得无伤大雅。这些品质的总和被称为机智。机智是那些人的品质，如果我们在决斗中叫出一个人，他们会祝贺我们，并补充说没有必要，真的；以便在我们自己眼中进一步增强勇气，我们已经证明了这一点，而并非被迫这样做。他们与那些在类似情况下说：“决斗对你来说一定是一个可怕的麻烦，但另一方面你不可能忍受这样的侮辱的人相反，没有别的事情了”待完成。但是，双方总是有话要说，如果我们的朋友在重复他们听到的关于我们的攻击性言论时表现出的高兴或至少表现出的冷漠，证明他们并没有完全将自己置于我们的立场中。说话时的皮肤，但刺入针尖，转动刀刃，就好像它是打金者的皮肤而不是人类，总是向我们隐藏他们可能不喜欢的东西的艺术听到人们谈论我们的行为，或者这些行为导致说话者自己形成我们的观点，证明在另一种朋友中，在那些如此机智的朋友中，有一种强烈的掩饰倾向。如果他们确实没有能力思考邪恶，如果其他人所说的话只会让他们像我们一样受苦，那也没什么坏处。我猜想安德烈的情况就是如此，但我并不确定。

We had left the little wood and had followed a network of overgrown paths through which Andrée managed to find her way with great skill. Suddenly, ‘Look now,’ she said to me, ‘there are your famous Creuniers, and, I say, you are in luck, it’s just the time of day, and the light is the same as when Elstir painted them.’ But I was still too wretched at having fallen, during the game of ‘ferret,’ from such a pinnacle of hopes. And so it was not with the pleasure which otherwise I should doubtless have felt that I caught sight, almost below my feet, crouching among the rocks, where they had gone for protection from the heat, of marine goddesses for whom Elstir had lain in wait and surprised them there, beneath a dark glaze as lovely as Leonardo would have painted, the marvellous Shadows, sheltered and furtive, nimble and voiceless, ready at the first glimmer of light to slip behind the stone, to hide in a cranny, and prompt, once the menacing ray had passed, to return to rock or seaweed beneath the sun that crumbled the cliffs and the colourless ocean, over whose slumbers they seemed to be watching, motionless lightfoot guardians letting appear on the water’s surface their viscous bodies and the attentive gaze of their deep blue eyes.
我们离开了小树林，沿着杂草丛生的小路网络前进，安德烈巧妙地在其中找到了路。突然，“现在看，”她对我说，“那是你们著名的克罗尼埃，我说，你们很幸运，现在正是一天中的这个时间，光线和埃尔斯蒂尔画它们时一样。”但是我还是太悲惨了，在玩“雪貂”游戏时，从这样的希望的顶峰跌落下来。因此，我一定不会感到高兴，否则我无疑会感到高兴，因为我看到了，几乎在我脚下，蹲伏在岩石之间，他们去那里避暑，埃尔斯蒂尔一直在等待着海洋女神。让他们感到惊讶的是，在如列奥纳多所描绘的那样可爱的黑暗釉下，奇妙的阴影，隐蔽而鬼祟，灵活而无声，准备在第一道微光溜到石头后面，隐藏在缝隙中，并迅速出现。一旦那道威胁性的射线过去，它们就会回到阳光下的岩石或海藻，它们粉碎了悬崖和无色的海洋，它们似乎在注视着它们的沉睡，一动不动的轻足守护者让它们粘稠的身体和专注的出现在水面上。他们深蓝色的眼睛凝视着。

We went back to the wood to pick up the other girls and go home together. I knew now that I was in love with Albertine; but, alas! I had no thought of letting her know it. This was because, since the days of our games in the Champs-Elysées, my conception of love had become different, even if the persons to whom my love was successively assigned remained practically the same. For one thing, the avowal, the declaration of my passion to her whom I loved no longer seemed to me one of the vital and necessary incidents of love, nor love itself an external reality, but simply a subjective pleasure. And as for this pleasure, I felt that Albertine would do everything necessary to furnish it, all the more since she would not know that I was enjoying it.
我们回到树林去​​接其他女孩，然后一起回家。我现在知道我爱上了阿尔贝蒂娜。可惜！我没想过要让她知道。这是因为，自从我们在香榭丽舍大街比赛以来，我的爱情观念已经不同了，尽管我先后分配的爱情对象几乎是一样的。一方面，在我看来，向我所爱的她表白、表达我的激情不再是爱情中至关重要和必要的事件之一，爱情本身也不再是一种外在的现实，而只是一种主观的快乐。至于这种快乐，我觉得阿尔贝蒂娜会尽一切努力来提供这种快乐，而且她不会知道我正在享受这种快乐。

As we walked home the image of Albertine, bathed in the light that streamed from the other girls, was not the only one that existed for me. But as the moon, which is no more than a tiny white cloud of a more definite and fixed shape than other clouds during the day, assumes her full power as soon as daylight dies, so when I was once more in the hotel it was Albertine’s sole image that rose from my heart and began to shine. My room seemed to me to have become suddenly a new place. Of course, for a long time past, it had not been the hostile room of my first night in it. All our lives we go on patiently modifying the surroundings in which we dwell; and gradually, as habit dispenses us from feeling them, we suppress the noxious elements of colour, shape and smell which were at the root of our discomfort. Nor was it any longer the room, still potent enough over my sensibility, not certainly to make me suffer, but to give me joy, the fount of summer days, like a marble basin in which, half way up its polished sides, they mirrored an azure surface steeped in light over which glided for an instant, impalpable and white as a wave of heat, a shadowy and fleeting cloud; not the room, wholly aesthetic, of the pictorial evening hours; it was the room in which I had been now for so many days that I no longer saw it. And now I was just beginning again to open my eyes to it, but this time from the selfish angle which is that of love. I liked to feel that the fine big mirror across one corner, the handsome bookcases with their fronts of glass would give Albertine, if she came to see me, a good impression of myself. Instead of a place of transit in which I would stay for a few minutes before escaping to the beach or to Rivebelle, my room became real and dear to me, fashioned itself anew, for I looked at and appreciated each article of its furniture with the eyes of Albertine.
当我们走回家时，阿尔贝蒂娜沐浴在其他女孩的光芒中的形象并不是我唯一存在的形象。但是，由于白天的月亮不过是一小片白色的云，其形状比其他云更明确、更固定，一旦日光一暗，月亮就会发挥出全部的力量，所以当我再次回到旅馆时，那是阿尔贝蒂娜的月亮。唯一的形象从我心中升起并开始闪耀。我的房间似乎突然变成了一个新地方。当然，在过去的很长一段时间里，这已经不是我第一晚入住时那个充满敌意的房间了。我们一生都在耐心地改变我们居住的环境；渐渐地，当习惯使我们感觉不到它们时，我们就会抑制颜色、形状和气味等有害元素，而这些元素是我们不适的根源。它也不再是那个房间了，仍然对我的情感有足够的影响力，不一定让我受苦，但给我快乐，夏天的源泉，就像一个大理石盆，在它抛光的侧面的一半上，它们镜像蔚蓝的表面浸透着光，在其上滑行了一瞬间，难以捉摸，白色如热浪，如阴暗而转瞬即逝的云；不是画画晚间的完全美观的房间；我已经在这个房间呆了很多天了，以至于我再也看不到它了。现在我又开始睁开眼睛看它，但这一次是从自私的角度，即爱的角度。我喜欢这样的感觉：角落里那面精致的大镜子，以及正面是玻璃的漂亮书柜，如果阿尔贝蒂娜来看我的话，会给我留下一个好印象。 我的房间不再是一个我会在逃到海滩或里维贝尔之前停留几分钟的中转地点，而是对我来说变得真实而亲切，重新塑造了自己，因为我用一种独特的方式来审视和欣赏它的每一件家具。阿尔贝蒂娜的眼睛。

A few days after the game of ‘ferret,’ when, having allowed ourselves to wander rather too far afield, we had been fortunate in finding at Maine-ville a couple of little ‘tubs’ with two seats in each which would enable us to be back in time for dinner, the keenness, already intense, of my love for Albertine, had the following effect, first of all, that it was Rosemonde and Andrée in turn that I invited to be my companion, and never once Albertine, after which, in spite of my manifest preference for Andrée or Rosemonde, I led everybody, by secondary considerations of time and distance, cloaks and so forth, to decide, as though against my wishes, that the most practical policy was that I should take Albertine, to whose company I pretended to resign myself for good or ill. Unfortunately, since love tends to the complete assimilation of another person, while other people are not comestible by way of conversation alone, Albertine might be (and indeed was) as friendly as possible to me on our way home; when I had deposited her at her own door she left me happy but more famished for her even than I had been at the start, and reckoning the moments that we had spent together as only à prelude, of little importance in itself, to those that were still to come. And yet this prelude had that initial charm which is not to be found again. I had not yet asked anything of Albertine. She could imagine what I wanted, but, not being certain of it, would suppose that I was tending only towards relations without any definite purpose, in which my friend would find that delicious vagueness, rich in surprising fulfilments of expectations, which is true romance.
“雪貂”比赛结束几天后，当我们允许自己徘徊太远的地方时，我们很幸运地在缅因维尔找到了几个小“浴缸”，每个浴缸都有两个座位，这使我们能够吃晚饭的时候回来了，我对阿尔贝蒂娜的爱已经很强烈了，产生了以下效果，首先，我依次邀请了罗丝蒙德和安德烈做我的伴侣，而阿尔贝蒂娜之后，再也没有邀请过。尽管我明显偏爱安德烈或罗丝蒙德，但我还是通过时间、距离、斗篷等次要考虑，引导大家决定，似乎违背我的意愿，最实际的政策是我应该带阿尔贝蒂娜，无论好坏，我都假装屈服于他们的陪伴。不幸的是，由于爱倾向于完全同化另一个人，而其他人不能仅通过谈话来消化，阿尔贝蒂娜在我们回家的路上可能（而且确实曾经）对我尽可能友好；但我认为，阿尔贝蒂娜可能会（而且确实曾经）对我尽可能友好。当我把她放在她家门口时，她让我很高兴，但比一开始更渴望她，并认为我们一起度过的时刻只是前奏，其本身并不重要，对那些还没有到来。然而，这段前奏却具有最初的魅力，现在再也找不到了。我还没有向阿尔贝蒂娜询问任何事情。她可以想象我想要什么，但是，不确定，她会认为我只是倾向于没有任何明确目的的关系，在这种关系中，我的朋友会发现那种美妙的模糊性，充满令人惊讶的期望满足，这才是真正的浪漫。

In the week that followed I scarcely attempted to see Albertine. I made a show of preferring Andrée. Love is born; one would like to remain, for her whom one loves, the unknown whom she may love in turn, but one has need of her, one requires contact not so much with her body as with her attention, her heart. One slips into a letter some spiteful expression which will force the indifferent reader to ask for some little kindness in compensation, and love, following an unvarying procedure, sets going with an alternating movement the machinery in which one can no longer either refrain from loving or be loved. I gave to Andrée the hours spent by the others at a party which I knew that she would sacrifice for my sake, with pleasure, and would have sacrificed even with reluctance, from a moral nicety, so as not to let either the others or herself think that she attached any importance to a relatively frivolous amusement. I arranged in this way to have her entirely to myself every evening, meaning not to make Albertine jealous, but to improve my position in her eyes, or at any rate not to imperil it by letting Albertine know that it was herself and not Andrée that I loved. Nor did I confide this to Andrée either, lest she should repeat it to her friend. When I spoke of Albertine to Andrée I affected a coldness by which she was perhaps less deceived that I by her apparent credulity. She made a show of believing in my indifference to Albertine, of desiring the closest possible union between Albertine and myself. It is probable that, on the contrary, she neither believed in the one nor wished for the other. While I was saying to her that I did not care very greatly for her friend, I was thinking of one thing only, how to become acquainted with Mme. Bontemps, who was staying for a few days near Balbec, and to whom Albertine was going presently on a short visit. Naturally I did not let Andrée become aware of this desire, and when I spoke to her of Albertine’s people, it was in the most careless manner possible. Andrée’s direct answers did not appear to throw any doubt on my sincerity. Why then did she blurt out suddenly, about that time: ‘Oh, guess who’ I’ve just seen—Albertine’s aunt!’ It is true that she had not said in so many words: ‘I could see through your casual remarks all right that the one thing you were really thinking of was how you could make friends with Albertine’s aunt.’ But it was clearly to the presence in Andrée’s mind of some such idea which she felt it more becoming to keep from me that the word ‘just’ seemed to point. It was of a kind with certain glances, certain gestures which, for all that they have not a form that is logical, rational, deliberately calculated to match the listener’s intelligence, reach him nevertheless in their true significance, just as human speech, converted into electricity in the telephone, is turned into speech again when it strikes the ear. In order to remove from Andree’s mind the idea that I was interested in Mme. Bontemps, I spoke of her from that time onwards not only carelessly but with downright malice, saying that I had once met that idiot of a woman, and trusted I should never have that experience again. Whereas I was seeking by every means in my power to meet her.
在接下来的一周里，我几乎没有试图去见阿尔贝蒂娜。我表现出更喜欢安德烈。爱是诞生的；一个人愿意为他所爱的人留下来，一个她可能会爱的未知人，但一个人需要她，一个人需要的与其说是与她的身体接触，不如说是与她的注意力、她的心灵接触。一个人在一封信中夹带一些恶意的表达，这将迫使冷漠的读者要求一些小小的善意作为补偿，而爱，遵循不变的程序，以一种交替的运动启动一种机制，在这种机制中，一个人再也无法克制不爱或不爱。被爱。我把其他人在聚会上度过的时间给了安德烈，我知道她会为了我而高兴地牺牲这些时间，而且出于道德上的善良，即使不情愿，她也会牺牲这些时间，以免让其他人或她自己我想她对这种相对琐碎的娱乐有什么重视。我这样安排，每天晚上都让她独处，目的是不让阿尔贝蒂娜嫉妒，而是为了提高我在她心目中的地位，或者至少不让阿尔贝蒂娜知道是她自己而不是安德烈来危害我的地位。我喜欢。我也没有向安德烈透露这件事，以免她向她的朋友重复这件事。当我向安德烈谈到阿尔贝蒂娜时，我表现出一种冷漠的态度，也许她不像我那样被她表面上的轻信所欺骗。她表现出相信我对阿尔贝蒂娜的冷漠，希望我和阿尔贝蒂娜有尽可能紧密的结合。相反，很可能她既不相信其中一个，也不希望另一个。当我对她说我不太关心她的朋友时，我只想着一件事，如何认识她。 邦当普斯在巴尔贝克附近逗留了几天，阿尔贝蒂娜不久前要去拜访他。当然，我没有让安德烈意识到我的这种愿望，而且当我向她谈论阿尔贝蒂娜的族人时，我的态度也是极其漫不经心的。安德烈的直接回答似乎并没有对我的诚意产生任何怀疑。那为什么她突然脱口而出：“哦，猜猜我刚刚看到了谁——阿尔贝蒂娜的姨妈！”确实，她没有说那么多：“我已经看穿了你的随口一说。”是的，你真正想到的一件事就是如何与阿尔贝蒂娜的姨妈交朋友。”但是，安德烈的脑海中显然存在着这样的想法，她觉得最好不要让我知道“只是”这个词。 ”似乎是在指出。它是一种带有某些目光、某些手势的类型，尽管它们没有逻辑、理性、刻意设计以匹配听众智力的形式，但它们的真正意义却传达给了听众，就像人类的言语被转化为语言一样。电话里的电，传到耳朵里又变成了语音。为了从安德烈的脑海中消除我对夫人感兴趣的想法。邦当斯，从那时起，我谈起她时不仅漫不经心，而且充满恶意，说我曾经见过那个白痴女人，相信我再也不会有那样的经历了。而我则想尽一切办法去见她。

I tried to induce Elstir (but without mentioning to anyone else that I had asked him) to speak to her about me and to bring us together. He promised to introduce me to her, though he seemed greatly surprised at my wishing it, for he regarded her as a contemptible woman, a born intriguer, as little interesting as she was disinterested. Reflecting that if I did see Mme. Bontemps, Andrée would be sure to hear of it sooner or later, I thought it best to warn her in advance. ‘The things one tries hardest to avoid are what one finds one cannot escape,’ I told her. ‘Nothing in the world could bore me so much as meeting Mme. Bontemps again, and yet I can’t get out of it, Elstir has arranged to invite us together.’ ‘I have never doubted it for a single instant,’ exclaimed Andrée in a bitter tone, while her eyes, enlarged and altered by her annoyance, focussed themselves upon some invisible object. These words of Andree’s were not the most recent statement of a thought which might be expressed thus: ‘I know that you are in love with Albertine, and that you are working day and night to get in touch with her people.’ But they were the shapeless fragments, easily pieced together again by me, of some such thought which I had exploded by striking it, through the shield of Andree’s self-control. Like her ‘just,’ these words had no meaning save in the second degree, that is to say they were words of the sort which (rather than direct affirmatives) inspires in us respect or distrust for another person, and leads to a rupture.
我试图说服埃尔斯蒂尔（但没有向其他任何人提及我曾邀请过他）向她谈论我并让我们走到一起。他答应把我介绍给她，尽管他似乎对我的愿望感到非常惊讶，因为他认为她是一个可鄙的女人，一个天生的阴谋家，既无趣又无私。反思如果我确实看到了女士。邦当，安德烈迟早会听到的，我认为最好提前警告她。我告诉她：“一个人最想避免的事情，却是一个人无法逃避的事情。” “世界上没有什么比见到夫人更让我厌烦的了。” “我从来没有怀疑过这一点，”安德烈用苦涩的语气喊道，她的眼睛放大了，改变了。她的烦恼，集中在一些看不见的物体上。安德烈的这些话并不是最新的思想陈述，可以这样表达：“我知道你爱上了阿尔贝蒂娜，并且你日以继夜地工作，以与她的人民取得联系。”一些这样的想法，我通过安德烈的自我控制的盾牌击打它，将其炸毁，我很容易将其重新拼凑在一起，形成无形的碎片。就像她的“正义”一样，这些词除了第二级之外没有任何意义，也就是说，它们是那种（而不是直接肯定）激发我们对另一个人的尊重或不信任并导致破裂的词。

If Andrée had not believed me when I told her that Albertine’s relatives left me indifferent, that was because she thought that I was in love with Albertine. And probably she was none too happy in the thought.
如果安德烈不相信我告诉她阿尔贝蒂娜的亲戚对我漠不关心，那是因为她认为我爱上了阿尔贝蒂娜。也许她想到这里就不太高兴。

She was generally present as a third party at my meetings with her friend. And yet there were days when I was to see Albertine by herself, days to which I looked forward with feverish impatience, which passed without bringing me any decisive result, without having, any of them, been that cardinal day whose part I immediately entrusted to the day that was to follow, which would prove no more apt to play it; thus there crumbled and collapsed, one after another, like waves of the sea, those peaks at once replaced by others.
她通常作为第三方出席我与她朋友的会面。然而，也有一些日子，我要单独见到阿尔贝蒂娜，我怀着狂热的不耐烦期盼着这些日子，但这些日子过去了，并没有给我带来任何决定性的结果，也没有成为我立即委托给她的那个重要的日子。接下来的一天，事实证明不再适合演奏它；于是，那些山峰就如同大海的波浪一样，一个接一个地崩塌塌陷，立刻被其他山峰所取代。

About a month after the day on which we had played ‘ferret’ together, I learned that Albertine was going away next morning to spend a couple of days with Mme. Bontemps, and, since she would have to start early, was coming to sleep that night at the Grand Hotel, from which, by taking the omnibus, she would be able, without disturbing the friends with whom she was staying, to catch the first train in the morning. I mentioned this to Andrée. ‘I don’t believe a word of it,’ she replied, with a look of annoyance. ‘Anyhow it won’t help you at all, for I’m quite sure Albertine won’t want to see you if she goes to the hotel by herself. It wouldn’t be ‘regulation,’’ she added, employing an epithet which had recently come into favour with her, in the sense of ‘what is done.’ ‘I tell you this because I understand Albertine. What difference do you suppose it makes to me, whether you see her or not? Not the slightest, I can assure you!’
我们一起玩“雪貂”的那天大约一个月后，我得知阿尔贝蒂娜第二天早上就要离开，去和阿尔贝蒂娜夫人待几天。邦当普斯，而且，因为她必须早起，那天晚上要在大酒店睡觉，从那里乘坐公共汽车，她将能够在不打扰与她住在一起的朋友的情况下赶上第一班早上火车。我向安德烈提到过这一点。 “我一个字都不相信，”她回答道，一脸恼怒。 “无论如何，这对你一点帮助都没有，因为我很确定阿尔贝蒂娜如果自己去旅馆的话，她不会想见你的。”这不会是‘监管’，”她补充道，用了她最近喜欢的一个绰号，意思是“做了什么”。“我告诉你这些是因为我了解阿尔贝蒂娜。你认为无论你是否见到她，这对我来说有什么区别？一点也不，我可以向你保证！

We were joined by Octave who had no hesitation in telling Andrée the number of strokes he had gone round in, the day before, at golf, then by Albertine, counting her diabolo as she walked along, like a nun telling her beads. Thanks to this pastime she could be left alone for hours on end without growing bored. As soon as she joined us I became conscious of the obstinate tip of her nose, which I had omitted from my mental pictures of her during the last few days; beneath her dark hair the vertical front of her brow controverted—and not for the first time—the indefinite image that I had preserved of her, while its whiteness made a vivid splash in my field of vision; emerging from the dust of memory, Albertine was built up afresh before my eyes. Golf gives one a taste for solitary pleasures. The pleasure to be derived from diabolo is undoubtedly one of these. And yet, after she had joined us, Albertine continued to toss up and catch her missile, just as a lady on whom friends have come to call does not on their account stop working at her crochet. ‘I hear that Mme. de Villeparisis,’ she remarked to Octave, ‘has been complaining to your father.’ I could hear, underlying the word, one of those notes that were peculiar to Albertine; always, just as I had made certain that I had forgotten them, I would be reminded of a glimpse caught through them before of Albertine’s determined and typically Gallic mien. I might have been blind, and yet have detected certain of her qualities, alert and slightly provincial, from those notes, just as plainly as from the tip of her nose. These were equivalent and might have been substituted for one another, and her voice was like what we are promised in the photo-telephone of the future; the visual image was clearly outlined in the sound. ‘She’s not written only to your father, either, she wrote to the Mayor of Balbec at the same time, to say that we must stop playing diabolo on the ‘front’ as somebody hit her in the face with one.’ ‘Yes, I was hearing about that. It’s too silly. There’s little enough to do here as it is.’ Andrée did not join in the conversation; she was not acquainted, any more than was Albertine or Octave, with Mme. de Villeparisis. She did, however, remark: ‘I can’t think why this lady should make such a song about it. O’d Mme. de Cambremer got hit in the face, and she never complained.’ ‘I will explain the difference,’ replied Octave gravely, striking a match as he spoke. ‘It’s my belief that Mme. de Cambremer is a woman of the world, and Mme. de Villeparisis is just an upstart. Are you playing golf this afternoon?’ And he left us, followed by Andrée. I was alone now with Albertine. ‘Do you see,’ she began, ‘I’m wearing my hair now the way you like—look at my ringlet. They all laugh at me and nobody knows who’ I’m doing it for. My aunt will laugh at me too. But I shan’t tell her why, either.’ I had a sidelong view of Albertine’s cheeks, which often appeared pale, but, seen thus, were flushed with a coursing stream of blood which lighted them up, gave them that dazzling clearness which certain winter mornings have when the stones sparkling in the sun seem blocks of pink granite and radiate joy. The joy that I was drawing at this moment from the sight of Albertine’s cheeks was equally keen, but led to another desire on my part, which was not to walk with her but to take her in my arms. I asked her if the report of her plans which I had heard were correct. ‘Yes,’ she told me, ‘I shall be sleeping at your hotel to-night, and in fact as I’ve got rather a chill, I shall be going to bed before dinner. You can come and sit by my bed and watch me eat, if you like, and afterwards we’ll play at anything you choose. I should have liked you to come to the station to-morrow morning, but I’m afraid it might look rather odd, I don’t say to Andrée, who is a sensible person, but to the others who will be there; if my aunt got to know, I should never hear the last of it. But we can spend the evening together, at any rate. My aunt will know nothing about that. I must go and say good-bye to Andrée. So long, then. Come early, so that we can have a nice long time together,’ she added, smiling. At these words I was swept back past the days in which I loved Gilberte to those in which love seemed to me not only an external entity but one that could be realised as a whole. Whereas the Gilberte whom I used to see in the Champs-Elysées was a different Gilberte from the one whom I found waiting inside myself when I was alone again, suddenly in the real Albertine, her whom I saw every day, whom I supposed to be stuffed with middle-class prejudices and entirely open with her aunt, there was incarnate the imaginary Albertine, she whom, when I still did not know her, I had suspected of casting furtive glances at myself on the ‘front,’ she who had worn an air of being reluctant to go indoors when she saw me making off in the other direction.
奥克塔夫也加入了我们，他毫不犹豫地告诉安德烈前一天打高尔夫球时他打了多少杆，然后阿尔贝蒂娜边走边数她的空竹，就像修女数珠子一样。多亏了这种消遣，她可以连续几个小时独自一人而不会感到无聊。她一加入我们，我就意识到她那顽固的鼻尖，在过去的几天里，我在脑海中对她的印象中忽略了它。在她的黑发下，她额头的垂直前部与我所保留的她的不确定形象相矛盾——而且这不是第一次了，而它的白色在我的视野中留下了鲜明的色彩；阿尔贝蒂娜从记忆的尘埃中浮现出来，重新出现在我的眼前。高尔夫让人尝到孤独的乐趣。从空竹中获得的乐趣无疑就是其中之一。然而，阿尔贝蒂娜加入我们之后，仍然继续翻腾并接住她的导弹，就像一位女士在朋友来拜访时并没有因为他们的缘故而停止钩针编织一样。 “我听说女士。 “德·维尔帕里西斯，”她对奥克塔夫说道，“一直在向你父亲抱怨。”我听出了这个词背后的一种阿尔贝蒂娜特有的音符；每当我确信自己已经忘记了它们时，我就会想起之前透过它们瞥见的阿尔贝蒂娜坚定而典型的高卢风范。我可能是瞎子，但从这些笔记中，就像从她的鼻尖上一样清楚地察觉到了她的某些品质，机敏而略显乡土。这些是等效的，并且可以相互替代，而她的声音就像我们在未来的光电电话中所承诺的那样；视觉形象在声音中清晰地勾勒出来。 “她也不仅仅写信给你父亲，她同时写信给巴尔贝克市长，说我们必须停止在‘前线’玩空竹，因为有人用空竹打了她的脸。”我听说过这个。这太傻了。 “这里没什么可做的。”安德烈没有加入谈话。她和阿尔贝蒂娜或奥克塔夫一样，并不熟悉夫人。德维尔帕里西斯。然而，她确实评论道：“我不明白这位女士为什么要创作这样一首关于它的歌曲。哦，夫人。 “我会解释其中的区别。”奥克塔夫边说边擦着一根火柴，严肃地回答道。 “我相信女士。德·康布勒梅 (de Cambremer) 是一位见多识广的女性，而夫人。德维尔帕里西斯只是一个暴发户。今天下午你打高尔夫球吗？”然后他就离开了我们，安德烈也跟着离开了。现在只有我和阿尔贝蒂娜在一起。 “你看到了吗，”她开始说道，“我现在的头发是你喜欢的样子——看看我的小卷发。”他们都嘲笑我，但没有人知道我是为谁而做。我姨妈也会笑我。但我也不告诉她为什么。”我侧目看了一眼阿尔贝蒂娜的脸颊，她的脸颊时常显得苍白，但这样看去，却因流淌的血流而变得通红，使它们显得明亮起来，显得明亮得令人眼花缭乱。在某些冬天的早晨，石头在阳光下闪闪发光，看起来像是粉红色的花岗岩，散发着欢乐的光芒。此刻，我从阿尔贝蒂娜的脸颊上看到的喜悦同样强烈，但又引发了我的另一个愿望，那就是不是和她一起散步，而是把她拥在怀里。我问她我听到的关于她的计划的报告是否正确。 “是的，”她告诉我，“今晚我将在你的旅馆睡觉，事实上，因为我有点冷，所以我会在晚餐前上床睡觉。如果你愿意的话，你可以坐在我的床边看我吃饭，然后我们就玩你选择的任何东西。我本来希望你明天早上来车站，但我担心这可能看起来很奇怪，我不是对安德烈这样说，他是一个明智的人，而是对其他将在那里的人说；如果我姨妈知道了，我就永远不会听到最后的消息了。但无论如何，我们可以一起度过一个晚上。我姨妈对此一无所知。我必须去跟安德烈告别。那么，就这样吧。早点来，这样我们就能一起度过一段愉快的时光。”她微笑着补充道。听了这些话，我仿佛回到了以前爱吉尔贝特的日子，那时的爱对我来说不仅是一种外在的实体，而且是一种可以作为一个整体来实现的东西。然而，我过去在香榭丽舍大街上见到的希尔贝特，与我再次独处时，在我内心等待着的那个希尔贝特是不同的，突然间，她变成了真正的阿尔贝蒂娜，我每天都见到的她，我本以为是她。充满了中产阶级的偏见，对她的姨妈完全敞开心扉，她就是想象中的阿尔贝蒂娜的化身，当我还不认识她时，我就怀疑她会偷偷地瞥一眼自己的“正面”，她穿着当她看到我朝另一个方向走去时，她表现出一种不愿进屋的表情。

I went in to dinner with my grandmother. I felt within me a secret which she could never guess. Similarly with Albertine; to-morrow her friends would be with her, not knowing what novel experience she and I had in common; and when she kissed her niece on the brow Mme. Bontemps would never imagine that I stood between them, in that arrangement of Albertine’s hair which had for its object, concealed from all the world, to give me pleasure, me who had until then so greatly envied Mme. Bontemps because, being related to the same people as her niece, she had the same occasions to don mourning, the same family visits to pay; and now I found myself meaning more to Albertine than did the aunt herself. When she was with her aunt, it was of me that she would be thinking. What was going to happen that evening, I scarcely knew. In any event, the Grand Hotel, the evening, would no longer seem empty to me; they contained my happiness. I rang for the lift-boy to take me up to the room which Albertine had engaged, a room that looked over the valley. The slightest movements, such as that of sitting down on the bench in the lift, were satisfying, because they were in direct relation to my heart; I saw in the ropes that drew the cage upwards, in the few steps that I had still to climb, only a materialisation of the machinery, the stages of my joy. I had only two or three steps to take now along the corridor before coming to that room in which was enshrined the precious substance of that rosy form—that room which, even if there were to be done in it delicious things, would keep that air of permanence, of being, to a chance visitor who knew nothing of its history, just like any other room, which makes of inanimate things the obstinately mute witnesses, the scrupulous confidants, the inviolable depositaries of our pleasure. Those few steps from the landing to Albertine’s door, those few steps which no one now could prevent my taking, I took with delight, with prudence, as though plunged into a new and strange element, as if in going forward I had been gently displacing the liquid stream of happiness, and at the same time with a strange feeling of absolute power, and of entering at length into an inheritance which had belonged to me from all time. Then suddenly I reflected that it was wrong to be in any doubt; she had told me to come when she was in bed. It was as clear as daylight; I pranced for joy, I nearly knocked over Françoise who was standing in my way, I ran, with glowing eyes, towards my friend’s room. I found Albertine in bed. Leaving her throat bare, her white nightgown altered the proportions of her face, which, flushed by being in bed or by her cold or by dinner, seemed pinker than before; I thought of the colours which I had had, a few hours earlier, displayed beside me, on the ‘front,’ the savour of which I was now at last to taste; her cheek was crossed obliquely by one of those long, dark, curling tresses, which, to please me, she had undone altogether. She looked at me and smiled. Beyond her, through the window, the valley lay bright beneath the moon. The sight of Albertine’s bare throat, of those strangely vivid cheeks, had so intoxicated me (that is to say had placed the reality of the world for me no longer in nature, but in the torrent of my sensations which it was all I could do to keep within bounds), as to have destroyed the balance between the life, immense and indestructible, which circulated in my being, and the life of the universe, so puny in comparison. The sea, which was visible through the window as well as the valley, the swelling breasts of the first of the Maineville cliffs, the sky in which the moon had not yet climbed to the zenith, all of these seemed less than a featherweight on my eyeballs, which between their lids I could feel dilated, resisting, ready to bear very different burdens, all the mountains of the world upon their fragile surface. Their orbit no longer found even the sphere of the horizon adequate to fill it. And everything that nature could have brought me of life would have seemed wretchedly meagre, the sigh of the waves far too short a sound to express the enormous aspiration that was surging in my breast. I bent over Albertine to kiss her. Death might have struck me down in that moment; it would have seemed to me a trivial, or rather an impossible thing, for life was not outside, it was in me; I should have smiled pityingly had a philosopher then expressed the idea that some day, even some distant day, I should have to die, that the external forces of nature would survive me, the forces of that nature beneath whose godlike feet I was no more than a grain of dust; that, after me, there would still remain those rounded, swelling cliffs, that sea, that moonlight and that sky! How was that possible; how could the world last longer than myself, since it was it that was enclosed in me, in me whom it went a long way short of filling, in me, where, feeling that there was room to store so many other treasures, I flung contemptuously into a corner sky, sea and cliffs. ‘Stop that, or I’ll ring the bell!’ cried Albertine, seeing that I was flinging myself upon her to kiss her. But I reminded myself that it was not for no purpose that a girl made a young man come to her room in secret, arranging that her aunt should not know—that boldness, moreover, rewards those who know how to seize their opportunities; in the state of exaltation in which I was, the round face of Albertine, lighted by an inner flame, like the glass bowl of a lamp, started into such prominence that, copying the rotation of a burning sphere, it seemed to me to be turning, like those faces of Michelangelo which are being swept past in the arrested headlong flight of a whirlwind. I was going to learn the fragrance, the flavour which this strange pink fruit concealed. I heard a sound, precipitous, prolonged, shrill. Albertine had pulled the bell with all her might.
我和祖母一起去吃饭。我感觉到我内心有一个她永远猜不到的秘密。阿尔贝蒂娜也是如此。明天她的朋友们会和她在一起，不知道我和她有什么新奇的共同经历；当她亲吻她侄女的额头时。邦当永远不会想象我站在他们中间，以阿尔贝蒂娜的头发排列，其目的是为了向世人隐藏起来，给我带来快乐，而我在此之前一直非常羡慕我夫人。邦当是因为，她和她的侄女有同样的亲戚关系，有同样的机会去哀悼，也有同样的家人探望；现在我发现我对阿尔贝蒂娜的意义比姨妈本人还要重要。当她和她姨妈在一起时，她就会想到我。那天晚上会发生什么，我几乎不知道。无论如何，大饭店这个夜晚对我来说不再显得空虚；它们承载着我的幸福。我按铃叫电梯服务员带我到阿尔贝蒂娜订的房间，一间可以俯瞰山谷的房间。最轻微的动作，比如坐在电梯里的长凳上，都是令人满意的，因为它们与我的心直接相关；我在拉着笼子向上的绳索中，在我还需要爬的几步台阶中，看到了机械的具体化，我的欢乐阶段。 现在，我沿着走廊只需要走两三步，就可以到达那个供奉着玫瑰色的珍贵物质的房间——那个房间，即使里面有美味的东西，也会保持空气。对于一个对它的历史一无所知的偶然访客来说，它是永恒的，是存在的，就像任何其他房间一样，它使无生命的东西成为固执的沉默证人，一丝不苟的知己，我们快乐的不可侵犯的保管人。从楼梯平台到阿尔贝蒂娜家门口的那几步，现在没有人能阻止我迈出的那几步，我欣喜而谨慎地走着，仿佛陷入了一种新的、陌生的元素，仿佛在前进的过程中我已经轻轻地移走了。幸福的液体流，同时还有一种奇怪的绝对力量的感觉，以及最终进入一直属于我的遗产的感觉。然后我突然意识到，有任何怀疑都是错误的。她在床上的时候叫我过来。天气晴朗如白昼。我高兴得手舞足蹈，差点撞倒挡住我去路的弗朗索瓦丝，我两眼发光，跑向我朋友的房间。我发现阿尔贝蒂娜躺在床上。她的白色睡衣裸露着喉咙，改变了她脸的比例，她的脸因上床、感冒或晚餐而泛红，看起来比以前更粉红了；我想起了几个小时前我所拥有的颜色，展示在我身边，在“前面”，我现在终于尝到了它的味道；她的脸颊上有一缕又长又黑的卷发斜斜地穿过她的脸颊，为了让我高兴，她把它完全解开了。她看着我，微笑着。在她身后，透过窗户，山谷在月光下显得明亮。 阿尔贝蒂娜裸露的喉咙，那奇异而生动的脸颊，使我如此陶醉（也就是说，对我来说，世界的现实不再是在自然界中，而是在我的感觉的洪流中，这是我所能做的一切）保持在界限之内），就好像破坏了在我存在中循环的巨大而坚不可摧的生命与相比之下如此微不足道的宇宙生命之间的平衡。透过窗户可以看到大海和山谷，缅因维尔第一座悬崖隆起的胸膛，月亮还没有爬到天顶的天空，所有这些在我的眼里都显得微不足道。眼球，我能感觉到它们在眼睑之间扩张，抵抗，准备好承受非常不同的负担，世界上所有的山脉都在它们脆弱的表面上。他们的轨道甚至连地平线都无法填满它。大自然能给我带来的一切都显得微不足道，海浪的叹息声音太短，不足以表达我胸中涌动的巨大愿望。我弯下腰去吻阿尔贝蒂娜。在那一刻，死亡可能会击倒我；对我来说，这似乎是一件微不足道的事情，或者更确切地说是一件不可能的事情，因为生命不在外面，而在我体内。如果有一位哲学家表达了这样的想法：有一天，即使是遥远的某一天，我也必须死去，自然的外在力量将使我幸存，我将不再在其神圣的脚下，我会怜悯地微笑。胜过一粒尘埃；在我之后，仍然会留下那些圆润、隆起的悬崖、那片大海、那片月光和那片天空！ 这怎么可能？世界怎么可能比我存在得更长久，因为它被封闭在我体内，在我体内，它远远没有填满我，在我体内，我感觉有空间来储存这么多其他的宝藏，我把它扔了出去。轻蔑地进入天空、大海和悬崖的角落。 “别这样，不然我就按门铃了！”阿尔贝蒂娜看到我扑到她身上要吻她时喊道。但我提醒自己，一个女孩让一个年轻人偷偷来到她的房间，并安排她的姨妈不知道，这并非无缘无故——而且，这种大胆奖励那些懂得抓住机会的人；在我欣喜若狂的状态下，阿尔贝蒂娜的圆脸被内心的火焰照亮，就像灯的玻璃碗一样，开始变得如此突出，以至于在我看来，它模仿了一个燃烧球体的旋转旋转，就像米开朗基罗的面孔在旋风的猛烈飞行中被席卷而过。我要学习这种奇怪的粉红色水果所隐藏的香味和味道。我听到一个声音，急促、漫长、尖锐。阿尔贝蒂娜用尽全身力气拉响了门铃。

*****

I had supposed that the love which I felt for Albertine was not based on the hope of carnal possession. And yet, when the lesson to be drawn from my experience that evening was, apparently, that such possession was impossible; when, after having had not the least doubt, that first day, on the beach, of Albertine’s being unchaste, and having then passed through various intermediate assumptions, I seemed to have quite definitely reached the conclusion that she was absolutely virtuous; when, on her return from her aunt’s, a week later, she greeted me coldly with: ‘I forgive you; in fact I’m sorry to have upset you, but you must never do it again,’—then, in contrast to what I had felt on learning from Bloch that one could always have all the women one liked, and as if, in place of a real girl, I had known a wax doll, it came to pass that gradually there aetached itself from her my desire to penetrate into her life, to follow her through the places in which she had spent her childhood, to be initiated by her into the athletic life; my intellectual curiosity to know what were her thoughts on this subject or that did not survive my belief that I might take her in my arms if I chose. My dreams abandoned her, once they had ceased to be nourished by the hope of a possession of which I had supposed them to be independent. Thenceforward they found themselves once more at liberty to transmit themselves, according to the attraction that I had found in her on any particular day, above all according to the chances that I seemed to detect of my being, possibly, one day, loved by her—to one or another of Albertine’s friends, and to Andrée first of all. And yet, if Albertine had not existed, perhaps I should not have had the pleasure which I began to feel more and more strongly during the days that followed in the kindness that was shewn me by Andrée. Albertine told no one of the check which I had received at her hands. She was one of those pretty girls who, from their earliest youth, by their beauty, but especially by an attraction, a charm which remains somewhat mysterious and has its source perhaps in reserves of vitality to which others less favoured by nature come to quench their thirst, have always—in their home circle, among their friends, in society—proved more attractive than other more beautiful and richer girls; she was one of those people from whom, before the age of love and ever so much more after it is reached, one asks more than they ask in return, more even than they are able to give. From her childhood Albertine had always had round her in an adoring circle four or five little girl friends, among them Andrée who was so far her superior and knew it (and perhaps this attraction which Albertine exerted quite involuntarily had been the origin, had laid the foundations of the little band). This attraction was still potent even at a great social distance, in circles quite brilliant in comparison, where if there was a pavane to be danced, they would send for Albertine rather than have it danced by another girl of better family. The consequence was that, not having a penny to her name, living a hard enough life, moreover, on the hands of M. Bontemps, who was said to be ‘on the rocks,’ and was anyhow anxious to be rid of her, she was nevertheless invited, not only to dine but to stay, by people who, in Saint-Loup’s sight, might not have had any distinction, but to Rosemonde’s mother or Andrée’s, women who though very rich themselves did not know these other and richer people, represented something quite incalculable. Thus Albertine spent a few weeks every year with the family of one of the Governors of the Bank of France, who was also Chairman of the Board of Directors of a great Railway Company. The wife of this financier entertained people of importance, and had never mentioned her ‘day’ to Andrée’s mother, who thought her wanting in politeness, but was nevertheless prodigiously interested in everything that went on in her house. Accordingly she encouraged Andrée every year to invite Albertine down to their villa, because, as she said, it was a real charity to offer a holiday by the sea to a girl who had not herself the means to travel and whose aunt did so little for her; Andrée’s mother was probably not prompted by the thought that the banker and his wife, learning that Albertine was made much of by her and her daughter, would form a high opinion of them both; still less did she hope that Albertine, good and clever as she was, would manage to get her invited, or at least to get Andrée invited, to the financier’s garden-parties. But every evening at the dinner-table, while she assumed an air of indifference slightly tinged with contempt, she was fascinated by Albertine’s accounts of everything that had happened at the big house while she was staying there, and the names of the other guests, almost all of them people whom she knew by sight or by name. True, the thought that she knew them only in this indirect fashion, that is to say did not know them at all (she called this kind of acquaintance knowing people ‘all my life’), gave Andrée’s mother a touch of melancholy while she plied Albertine with questions about them in a lofty and distant tone, speaking with closed lips, and might have left her doubtful and uneasy as to the importance of her own social position had she not been able to reassure herself, to return safely to the ‘realities of life,’ by saying to the butler: ‘Please tell the chef that he has not made the peas soft enough.’ She then recovered her serenity. And she was quite determined that Andrée was to marry nobody but a man—of the best family, of course—rich enough for her too to be able to keep a chef and a couple of coachmen. This was the proof positive, the practical indication of ‘position.’ But the fact that Albertine had dined at the banker’s house in the country with this or that great lady, and that the said great lady had invited the girl to stay with her next winter, did not invalidate a sort of special consideration which Albertine shewed towards Andrée’s mother, which went very well with the pity, and even repulsion, excited by the tale of her misfortunes, a repulsion increased by the fact that M. Bontemps had proved a traitor to the cause (he was even, people said, vaguely Panamist) and had rallied to the Government. Not that this deterred Andrée’s mother, in her passion for abstract truth, from withering with her scorn the people who appeared to believe that Albertine was of humble origin. ‘What’s that you say? Why, they’re one of the best families in the country. Simonet with a single ‘n,’ you know!’ Certainly, in view of the class of society in which all this went on, in which money plays so important a part, and mere charm makes people ask you out but not marry you, a ‘comfortable’ marriage did not appear to be for Albertine a practical outcome of the so distinguished patronage which she enjoyed but which would not have been held to compensate for her poverty. But even by themselves, and with no prospect of any matrimonial consequence, Albertine’s ‘successes’ in society excited the envy of certain spiteful mothers, furious at seeing her received like one of the family by the banker’s wife, even by Andrée’s mother, neither of whom they themselves really knew. They therefore went about telling common friends of those ladies and their own that both ladies would be very angry if they knew the facts, which were that Albertine repeated to each of them everything that the intimacy to which she was rashly admitted enabled her to spy out in the household of the other, a thousand little secrets which it must be infinitely unpleasant to the interested party to have made public. These envious women said this so that it might be repeated and might get Albertine into trouble with her patrons. But, as often happens, their machinations met with no success. The spite that prompted them was too apparent, and their only result was to make the women who had planned them appear rather more contemptible than before. Andrée’s mother was too firm in her opinion of Albertine to change her mind about her now. She looked upon her as a ‘poor wretch,’ but the best-natured girl living, and one who would do anything in the world to give pleasure.
我原以为我对阿尔贝蒂娜的爱并不是基于肉体占有的希望。然而，当我从那天晚上的经历中吸取的教训显然是，这种占有是不可能的；第一天，在海滩上，我毫不怀疑阿尔贝蒂娜是否不贞洁，然后又经过了各种中间的假设，我似乎十分肯定地得出了这样的结论：她绝对是贞洁的。一周后，当她从姨妈家回来时，她冷冷地跟我打招呼：“我原谅你；我原谅你。”事实上，我很抱歉让你心烦意乱，但你绝对不能再这样做了。”——然后，这与我从布洛赫那里得知一个人总是可以拥有所有他喜欢的女人的感受形成鲜明对比，就好像，在在一个真正的女孩的地方，我认识了一个蜡娃娃，事情是这样的，渐渐地，我的愿望从她身上消失了，我想渗透到她的生活中，跟随她穿过她度过童年的地方，从她那里开始她进入了运动生活；我的好奇心想知道她对这个问题的想法，或者我相信如果我选择的话我可以把她抱在怀里，但这种好奇心并没有延续下去。一旦我的梦想不再受到我本以为它们是独立的财产的希望的滋养，我的梦想就抛弃了她。从那时起，他们发现自己再次可以自由地传播自己，根据我在任何特定的一天在她身上发现的吸引力，尤其是根据我似乎发现我可能有一天被她爱的机会——阿尔贝蒂娜的一个或另一个朋友，首先是安德烈。 然而，如果阿尔贝蒂娜不存在，也许我就不会在安德烈对我的善意之后的日子里越来越强烈地感受到这种快乐。阿尔贝蒂娜没有告诉任何人我从她手里收到的支票。她是那些漂亮女孩中的一员，她们从很小的时候起就以她们的美貌为特色，尤其是一种吸引力，一种仍然有些神秘的魅力，其来源也许是活力的储备，其他不那么受大自然青睐的人会用这种活力来消除她们的渴望。渴望，在她们的家庭圈子里，在朋友们中间，在社会上，她们总是比其他更美丽、更富有的女孩更具吸引力；她是这样的人之一，在爱情年龄之前，以及在达到爱情年龄之后，人们所要求的比他们所要求的回报更多，甚至比他们能够给予的还要多。从孩提时代起，阿尔贝蒂娜的崇拜圈子里就有四五个小女朋友，其中安德烈是她的上级，他也知道这一点（也许阿尔贝蒂娜不由自主地产生的这种吸引力就是根源，奠定了她的地位。小乐队的基础）。即使在社交距离很远的情况下，这种吸引力仍然很强大，相比之下，在相当出色的圈子里，如果要跳孔舞曲，他们会派人去找阿尔贝蒂娜，而不是让另一个出身更好的女孩来跳。结果就是，她名下一分钱都没有，而且还压在M的手里，过着够艰苦的生活。 据说邦当普斯“触礁了”，无论如何都急于摆脱她，然而，在圣卢看来，那些人不仅邀请她吃饭，而且邀请她留下来。没有任何区别，但对于罗斯蒙德的母亲或安德烈的母亲来说，尽管她们自己非常富有，但不认识这些其他更富有的人，她们代表了一些无法估量的东西。因此，阿尔贝蒂娜每年都会与一位法国银行行长（同时也是一家大铁路公司的董事会主席）的家人一起度过几个星期。这位金融家的妻子招待重要人物，从未向安德烈的母亲提起她的“一天”，安德烈的母亲认为她缺乏礼貌，但对她家里发生的一切都非常感兴趣。因此，她每年都鼓励安德烈邀请阿尔贝蒂娜到他们的别墅来，因为正如她所说，为一个自己没有办法旅行且姨妈为她所做的事情很少的女孩提供一个海边假期是真正的慈善事业。她;安德烈的母亲可能并没有想到，银行家和他的妻子在得知阿尔贝蒂娜受到她和她的女儿的重视后，会对他们俩产生很高的评价；但他们的想法却是这样的。她更不希望阿尔贝蒂娜，尽管她善良又聪明，能够邀请她，或者至少邀请安德烈，去参加金融家的游园会。但每天晚上，在餐桌上，她虽然装出一副冷漠、略带轻蔑的神情，却对阿尔贝蒂娜讲述她在这座大房子里所发生的一切以及其他客人的名字着迷。几乎所有这些人她都见过或叫过名字。 确实，一想到她只是以这种间接的方式认识他们，也就是说根本不认识他们（她称这种认识人为“我一生”），安德烈的母亲在她不断地与人交往时感到一丝忧郁。阿尔贝蒂娜用一种崇高而疏远的语气，闭着嘴唇说话，向他们提出问题，如果她不能让自己放心，安全地回到“现实”，她可能会对自己的社会地位的重要性感到怀疑和不安。她对管家说：“请告诉厨师，他把豌豆做得不够软。”然后她恢复了平静。她下定决心，安德烈只会嫁给一个男人——当然是最好的家庭——她也足够富有，可以养一个厨师和几个车夫。这是确凿的证据，是“地位”的实际指示。但事实是，阿尔贝蒂娜曾在乡下的银行家家里与这位或那位贵妇人一起吃饭，而这位贵妇人邀请这位姑娘下次去她家住下。冬天，阿尔贝蒂娜对安德烈的母亲表现出一种特殊的关怀，这并没有使她的不幸的故事激起怜悯，甚至厌恶，这种厌恶更加强烈，事实证明邦当普斯先生已经证明了这一点。他是这项事业的叛徒（人们说他甚至有点像巴拿马主义者），并且已经团结到政府一边。但这并没有阻止安德烈的母亲对抽象真理的热情，她的蔑视使那些似乎相信阿尔贝蒂娜出身卑微的人变得枯萎。 ‘你说什么？为什么，他们是这个国家最好的家庭之一。 Simonet 带有一个“n”，你知道！当然，考虑到发生这一切的社会阶层，金钱起着如此重要的作用，仅仅有魅力就会让人约你出去，但不会娶你，“舒适”的婚姻似乎并不适合你。阿尔贝蒂娜得到了如此杰出的资助，但这种资助并不能弥补她的贫困。但即使是阿尔贝蒂娜本身，在没有任何婚姻后果的前景下，她在社会上的“成功”也引起了某些恶毒母亲的嫉妒，她们看到银行家的妻子，甚至安德烈的母亲，都像家庭成员一样对待她，感到非常愤怒。他们自己真正认识谁。因此，他们开始告诉那些女士和他们自己的共同朋友，如果她们知道事实，那就是阿尔贝蒂娜向她们每个人重复了她鲁莽地承认的亲密行为使她能够窥探到的一切，那么两位女士都会非常生气。在对方的家里，有一千个小秘密，如果公开的话，有关各方一定会非常不高兴。这些嫉妒的女人这么说，是为了让这种事重演，让阿尔贝蒂娜给她的主顾们带来麻烦。但是，正如经常发生的那样，他们的阴谋没有成功。促使他们的恶意太明显了，而他们唯一的结果就是让策划他们的女人显得比以前更加可鄙。安德烈的母亲对阿尔贝蒂娜的看法太坚定了，现在无法改变对她的看法。在她看来，她是一个“可怜的可怜虫”，但却是一个心地善良的女孩，一个愿意做世界上任何事来给别人带来快乐的女孩。

If this sort of select popularity to which Albertine had attained did not seem likely to lead to any practical result, it had stamped Andrée’s friend with the distinctive marks of people who, being always sought after, have never any need to offer themselves, marks (to be found also, and for analogous reasons, at the other end of the social scale among the leaders of fashion) which consist in their not making any display of the successes they have scored, but rather keeping them to themselves. She would never say to anyone: ‘So-and-so is anxious to meet me,’ would speak of everyone with the greatest good nature, and as if it had been she who ran after, who sought to know other people, and not they. If you spoke of a young man who, a few minutes earlier, had been, in private conversation with her, heaping the bitterest reproaches upon her because she had refused him an assignation, so far from proclaiming this in public, or betraying any resentment she would stand up for him: ‘He is such a nice boy!’ Indeed it quite annoyed her when she attracted people, because that compelled her to disappoint them, whereas her natural instinct was always to give pleasure. So much did she enjoy giving pleasure that she had come to employ a particular kind of falsehood, found among utilitarians and men who have ‘arrived.’ Existing besides in an embryonic state in a vast number of people, this form of insincerity consists in not being able to confine the pleasure arising out of a single act of politeness to a single person. For instance, if Albertine’s aunt wished her niece to accompany her to a party which was not very lively, Albertine might have found it sufficient to extract from the incident the moral profit of having given pleasure to her aunt. But being courteously welcomed by her host and hostess, she thought it better to say to them that she had been wanting to see them for so long that she had finally seized this opportunity and begged her aunt to take her to their party. Even this was not enough: at the same party there happened to be one of Albertine’s friends who was in great distress. ‘I did not like the idea of your being here by yourself. I thought it might do you good to have me with you. If you would rather come away from here, go somewhere else, I am ready to do anything you like; all I want is to see you look not so sad.’—Which, as it happened, was true also. Sometimes it happened however that the fictitious object destroyed the real. Thus, Albertine, having a favour to ask on behalf of one of her friends, went on purpose to see a certain lady who could help her. But on arriving at the house of this lady—a kind and sympathetic soul—the girl, unconsciously following the principle of utilising a single action in a number of ways, felt it to be more ingratiating to appear to have come there solely on account of the pleasure she knew she would derive from seeing the lady again. The lady was deeply touched that Albertine should have taken a long journey purely out of friendship for herself. Seeing her almost overcome by emotion, Albertine began to like the lady still better. Only, there was this awkward consequence: she now felt so keenly the pleasure of friendship which she pretended to have been her motive in coming, that she was afraid of making the lady suspect the genuineness of sentiments which were actually quite sincere if she now asked her to do the favour, whatever it may have been, for her friend. The lady would think that Albertine had come for that purpose, which was true, but would conclude also that Albertine had no disinterested pleasure in seeing her, which was not. With the result that she came away without having asked the favour, like a man sometimes who has been so good to a woman, in the hope of winning her, that he refrains from declaring his passion in order to preserve for his goodness an air of nobility. In other instances it would be wrong to say that the true object was sacrificed to the subordinate and subsequently conceived idea, but the two were so far incompatible that if the person to whom Albertine endeared herself by stating the second had known of the existence of the first, his pleasure would at once have been turned into the deepest annoyance. At a much later point in this story, we shall have occasion to see this kind of incompatibility expressed in clearer terms. Let us say for the present, borrowing an example of a completely different order, that they occur very frequently in the most divergent situations that life has to offer. A husband has established his mistress in the town where he is quartered with his regiment. His wife, left by herself in Paris, and with an inkling of the truth, grows more and more miserable, and writes her husband letters embittered by jealousy. Very well; the mistress is obliged to go up to Paris for the day. The husband cannot resist her entreaties that he will go with her, and applies for short leave, which is granted. But as he is a good-natured fellow, and hates to make his wife unhappy, he goes to her and tells her, shedding a few quite genuine tears, that, driven to desperation by her letters, he has found the means of getting away from his duties to come to her, to console her in his arms. He has thus contrived by a single journey to furnish wife and mistress alike with proofs of his affection. But if the wife were to learn the reason for which he has come to Paris, her joy would doubtless be turned into grief, unless her pleasure in seeing the faithless wretch outweighed, in spite of everything, the pain that his infidelities had caused her. Among the men who have struck me as practising with most perseverance this system of what might be called killing any number of birds with one stone, must be included M. de Norpois. He would now and then agree to act as intermediary between two of his friends who had quarrelled, which led to his being called the most obliging of men. But it was not sufficient for him to appear to be doing a service to the friend who had come to him to demand it; he would represent to the other the steps which he was taking to effect a reconciliation as undertaken not at the request of the first friend but in the interest of the second, an attitude of the sincerity of which he had never any difficulty in convincing a listener already influenced by the idea that he saw before him the ‘most serviceable of men.’ In this fashion, playing in two scenes turn about, what in stage parlance is called ‘doubling’ two parts, he never allowed his influence to be in the slightest degree imperilled, and the services which he rendered constituted not an expenditure of capital but a dividend upon some part of his credit. At the same time every service, seemingly rendered twice over, correspondingly enhanced his reputation as an obliging friend, and, better still, a friend whose interventions were efficacious, one who did not draw bows at a venture, whose efforts were always justified by success, as was shewn by the gratitude of both parties. This duplicity in rendering services was—allowing for disappointments such as are the lot of every human being—an important element of M. de Norpois’s character. And often at the Ministry he would make use of my father, who was a simple soul, while making him believe that it was he, M. de Norpois, who was being useful to my father. Attracting people more easily than she wished, and having no need to proclaim her conquests abroad, Albertine kept silence with regard to the scene with myself by her bedside, which a plain girl would have wished the whole world to know. And yet of her attitude during that scene I could not arrive at any satisfactory explanation. Taking first of all the supposition that she was absolutely chaste (a supposition with which I had originally accounted for the violence with which Albertine had refused to let herself be taken in my arms and kissed, though it was by no means essential to my conception of the goodness, the fundamentally honourable character of my friend), I could not accept it without a copious revision of its terms. It ran so entirely counter to the hypothesis which I had constructed that day when I saw Albertine for the first time. Then ever so many different acts, all acts of kindness towards myself (a kindness that was caressing, at times uneasy, alarmed, jealous of my predilection for Andrée) came up on all sides to challenge the brutal gesture with which, to escape from me, she had pulled the bell. Why then had she invited me to come and spend the evening by her bedside? Why had she spoken all the time in the language of affection? What object is there in your desire to see a friend, in your fear that he is fonder of another of your friends than of you; why seek to give him pleasure, why tell him, so romantically, that the others will never know that he has spent the evening in your room, if you refuse him so simple a pleasure and if to you it is no pleasure at all? I could not believe, all the same, that Albertine’s chastity was carried to such a pitch as that, and I had begun to ask myself whether her violence might not have been due to some reason of coquetry, a disagreeable odour, for instance, which she suspected of lingering about her person, and by which she was afraid that I might be disgusted, or else of cowardice, if for instance she imagined, in her ignorance of the facts of love, that my state of nervous exhaustion was due to something contagious, communicable to her in a kiss. She was genuinely distressed by her failure to afford me pleasure, and gave me a little gold pencil-case, with that virtuous perversity which people shew who, moved by your supplications and yet not consenting to grant you what those supplications demand, are anxious all the same to bestow on you some mark of their affection; the critic, an article from whose pen would so gratify the novelist, asks him instead to dinner; the duchess does not take the snob with her to the theatre but lends him her box on an evening when she will not be using it herself. So far are those who do least for us, and might easily do nothing, driven by conscience to do something. I told Albertine that in giving me this pencil-case she was affording me great pleasure, and yet not so great as I should have felt if, on the night she had spent at the hotel, she had permitted me to embrace her. ‘It would have made me so happy; what possible harm could it have done you? I was simply astounded at your refusing to let me do it.’ ‘What astounds me,’ she retorted, ‘is that you should have thought it astounding. Funny sort of girls you must know if my behaviour surprises you.’ ‘I am extremely sorry if I annoyed you, but even now I cannot say that I think I was in the wrong. What I feel is that all that sort of thing is of no importance, really, and I can’t understand a girl who could so easily give pleasure not consenting to do so. Let us be quite clear about it,’ I went on, throwing a sop of sorts to her moral scruples, as I recalled how she and her friends had scarified the girl who went about with the actress Lea. ‘I don’t mean to say for a moment that a girl can behave exactly as she likes, or that there’s no such thing as immorality. Take, let me see now, yes, what you were saying the other day about a girl who is staying at Balbec and her relations with an actress; I call that degrading, so degrading that I feel sure it must all have been made up by the girl’s enemies, and that there can’t be any truth in the story. It strikes me as improbable, impossible. But to let a friend kiss you, and go farther than that even—since you say that I am your friend...’ ‘So you are, but I have had friends before now, I have known lots of young men who were every bit as friendly, I can assure you. There wasn’t one of them would ever have dared to do a thing like that. They knew they’d get their ears boxed if they tried it on. Besides, they never dreamed of trying, we would shake hands in an open, friendly sort of way, like good pals, but there was never a word said about kissing, and yet we weren’t any the less friends for that. Why, if it’s my friendship you are after, you’ve nothing to complain of; I must be jolly fond of you to forgive you. But I’m sure you don’t care two straws about me, really. Own up now, it’s Andrée you’re in love with. After all, you’re quite right; she is ever so much prettier than I am, and perfectly charming! Oh! You men!’ Despite my recent disappointment, these words so frankly uttered, by giving me a great respect for Albertine, made a very pleasant impression on me. And perhaps this impression was to have serious and vexatious consequences for me later on, for it was round it that there began to form that feeling almost of brotherly intimacy, that moral core which was always to remain at the heart of my love for Albertine. A feeling of this sort may be the cause of the keenest pain. For in order really to suffer at the hands of a woman one must have believed in her completely. For the moment, that embryo of moral esteem, of friendship, was left embedded in me like a stepping-stone in a stream. It could have availed nothing, by itself, against my happiness if it had remained there without growing, in an inertia which it was to retain the following year, and still more during the final weeks of this first visit to Balbec. It dwelt in me like one of those foreign bodies which it would be wiser when all is said to expel, but which we leave where they are without disturbing them, so harmless for the present does their weakness, their isolation amid a strange environment render them.
阿尔贝蒂娜所获得的这种选择性的受欢迎程度似乎不会带来任何实际结果，但它却给安德烈的朋友打上了独特的印记，这些人总是受到追捧，从来没有必要提供自己的印记（出于类似的原因，在时尚界的领导者中也可以发现社会规模的另一端），他们不展示自己所取得的成功，而是将其保留在自己身上。她绝不会对任何人说：“某某急着要见我”，她会用最善良的态度来谈论每个人，就好像是她在追赶，在寻求认识其他人，而不是在她的身边。他们。如果你谈到一个年轻人，几分钟前，他在与她私下交谈时，因为她拒绝给他指派而对她进行了最严厉的责备，但他远没有公开宣布这一点，也没有流露出任何怨恨，她她会站出来支持他：“他真是个好孩子！”事实上，当她吸引别人时，她感到非常恼火，因为这迫使她让他们失望，而她的本能总是给人带来快乐。她太喜欢给人带来快乐，以至于她开始使用一种特殊的谎言，这种谎言在功利主义者和“到达”的男人中很常见。这种不诚实除了在大多数人中处于萌芽状态外，还存在于不诚实的人中。能够将因一次礼貌行为而产生的快乐限制在一个人身上。例如，如果阿尔贝蒂娜的姨妈希望她的侄女陪她参加一个不太热闹的聚会，阿尔贝蒂娜可能会发现，从这件事中获得为她姨妈带来欢乐的道德利益就足够了。 但受到男女主人的殷勤接待，她觉得还是应该对他们说，她想见他们已经很久了，终于抓住了这个机会，恳求姑姑带她去参加他们的聚会。但这还不够：在同一个聚会上，阿尔贝蒂娜的一位朋友碰巧陷入了极大的痛苦。 “我不喜欢你一个人在这里。我想我和你在一起可能会对你有好处。如果你愿意离开这里，去别的地方，我愿意做任何你喜欢的事情；我只想看到你看起来不那么悲伤。”——事实证明，这也是事实。然而，有时虚构的物体会破坏真实的物体。于是，阿尔贝蒂娜为了朋友的事，特意去见一位可以帮助她的女士。但当来到这位善良而富有同情心的女士家里时，女孩不自觉地遵循一举多用的原则，觉得似乎只是因为一个人才来到那里更讨人喜欢。她知道，再次见到那位女士，她一定会感到高兴。阿尔贝蒂娜纯粹是为了自己的友谊而长途跋涉，这让这位女士深受感动。阿尔贝蒂娜见她几乎激动不已，更加喜欢这位女士了。只是，出现了一个尴尬的后果：她现在如此强烈地感受到了友谊的快乐，她假装这是她来的动机，以至于她害怕让这位女士怀疑感情的真实性，而如果她现在问的话，这些感情实际上是相当真诚的。她要为她的朋友帮忙，无论是什么。 那位女士会认为阿尔贝蒂娜是为了这个目的而来的，这是事实，但她也会得出这样的结论：阿尔贝蒂娜见到她并没有无私的乐趣，但事实并非如此。结果，她没有请求帮助就走了，就像一个男人有时对一个女人很好，希望赢得她，但他却克制住自己的热情，以保持他的善良的气氛。贵族。在其他情况下，说真正的客体被牺牲给从属者并随后构想出来的想法是错误的，但到目前为止，这两者是不相容的，如果阿尔贝蒂娜通过陈述第二个客体而讨好自己的人知道了第二个客体的存在，首先，他的快乐会立刻变成最深的烦恼。在这个故事的稍后一点，我们将有机会看到这种不相容性以更清晰的方式表达出来。目前，借用一个完全不同顺序的例子，它们经常出现在生活所提供的最不同的情况下。一位丈夫在他所在的军团驻扎的城镇里娶了情妇。他的妻子独自留在巴黎，在得知真相后，她变得越来越痛苦，并充满嫉妒地给丈夫写了信。很好;女主人必须去巴黎呆一天。丈夫无法抗拒她陪她一起去的请求，并申请了短期休假，并获得批准。但由于他是一个心地善良的人，不愿意让妻子不高兴，他走到她面前，流下几滴真诚的泪水，告诉她，他被她的信逼得走投无路，已经找到了逃脱的办法。他放下了职责来到她身边，在怀里安慰她。 因此，他只用一次旅程就向妻子和情妇提供了他的爱的证据。但是，如果妻子知道他来巴黎的原因，她的喜悦无疑会变成悲伤，除非她看到这个不忠的可怜虫的快乐无论如何都超过了他的不忠给她带来的痛苦。在我印象中，德·诺普瓦先生是最坚持不懈地实践这种所谓“一石二鸟”的方法的人之一。他时不时地同意在两个吵架的朋友之间充当调解人，这使他被称为最乐于助人的人。但对于他来说，仅仅表现出在为前来向他提出要求的朋友提供服务是不够的；他还需要更多的帮助。他会向对方表明他为实现和解而采取的步骤，这不是应第一个朋友的要求而是为了第二个朋友的利益而采取的，他的真诚态度使他毫不费力地说服听众他已经受到这样一种观念的影响，即他在自己面前看到了“最有用的人”。以这种方式，在两个场景中交替播放，用舞台用语来说就是“双重”两个部分，他从不让自己的影响力出现在舞台上。他所提供的服务不构成资本支出，而是其信用的一部分的红利。与此同时，每一项似乎提供了两次的服务，相应地提高了他作为一个乐于助人的朋友的声誉，更好的是，他是一个干预有效的朋友，一个不会在冒险中鞠躬的朋友，他的努力总是会因成功而得到证明。 ，从双方的感激之情可见一斑。 提供服务时的这种口是心非——考虑到每个人都会经历的失望——是德·诺普瓦先生性格的一个重要因素。在部里，他经常利用我父亲这个头脑简单的人，同时让他相信正是他，德·诺普瓦先生，对我父亲有用。阿尔贝蒂娜比她所希望的更容易吸引人们，而且没有必要在国外宣扬她的征服，她对我在她床边的那一幕保持沉默，这是一个普通女孩希望全世界都知道的事情。然而，对于她在那场戏中的态度，我无法得出任何令人满意的解释。首先假设她是绝对贞洁的（我最初用这个假设来解释阿尔贝蒂娜拒绝让自己被我抱在怀里和亲吻的暴力行为，尽管这对我的构想来说绝不是必要的）我的朋友的善良，本质上是可敬的品格），如果不对其条款进行大量修改，我就无法接受它。这与我那天第一次见到阿尔贝蒂娜时所建立的假设完全相反。然后，无数不同的行为，所有对我自己的善意行为（一种爱抚的善意，有时是不安，惊慌，嫉妒我对安德烈的偏爱）从四面八方涌来，挑战我逃离我的残酷姿态。 ，她拉响了门铃。那么她为什么邀请我到她床边过夜呢？为什么她总是用深情的语言说话？ 你渴望见一个朋友，又担心他更喜欢你的另一个朋友而不是你，这有什么目的呢？如果你拒绝给他如此简单的快乐，如果对你来说这根本不是快乐，为什么要设法给他快乐，为什么要如此浪漫地告诉他，其他人永远不会知道他在你的房间里度过了晚上？尽管如此，我还是不敢相信阿尔贝蒂娜的贞操竟然达到了如此程度，我开始问自己，她的暴力行为是否可能不是出于某种卖弄风情的原因，例如一种令人不快的气味，她怀疑我在她身上徘徊，她担心我可能会感到厌恶，或者是胆怯，例如，如果她在对爱情事实的无知中想象我的神经疲惫状态是由于某种原因造成的具有传染性，通过一个吻就能传染给她。她对未能给我带来快乐而感到真正的痛苦，并给了我一个小金铅笔盒，带着一种善良的反常，人们表现出那些被你的恳求所感动，但不同意满足你这些恳求所要求的人，他们都焦虑不安。同样是为了表达他们对你的喜爱；批评家的一篇文章让小说家非常满意，却邀请他共进晚餐。公爵夫人不会带势利小人去剧院，而是在晚上自己不使用的时候把包厢借给他。到目前为止，那些为我们做的事最少的人，可能很容易什么也不做，但受良心的驱使而去做某事。我告诉阿尔贝蒂娜，她给我这个铅笔盒给了我很大的快乐，但如果她在旅馆里过夜时允许我拥抱她的话，我的感受就不会那么快乐。 “这会让我非常高兴；它可能对你造成什么伤害？我只是对你拒绝让我这么做感到惊讶。” “令我惊讶的是，”她反驳道，“你应该认为这令人震惊。如果我的行为让你感到惊讶，你一定知道这是一群有趣的女孩。”“如果我惹恼了你，我感到非常抱歉，但即使现在我也不能说我认为我错了。我的感觉是，所有这些事情都不重要，真的，我无法理解一个女孩可以如此轻易地在不同意的情况下给予快乐。让我们把事情说清楚吧，”我继续说道，一边回想起她和她的朋友们是如何杀害与女演员莉亚一起走动的女孩的，一边对她的道德顾虑施以某种安慰。 “我并不是说女孩可以随心所欲地行事，或者说不存在不道德的事情。让我现在想想，是的，你前几天所说的关于一个住在巴尔贝克的女孩以及她与一位女演员的关系；我称这为有辱人格，如此有辱人格，我确信这一切一定是女孩的敌人编造出来的，而且这个故事不可能有任何真相。我觉得这是不可能的，不可能的。但让一个朋友亲吻你，甚至比这更进一步——既然你说我是你的朋友……”“是的，但我以前有过朋友，我认识很多年轻人，他们都是我可以向你保证，同样友好。他们之中没有人敢做出这样的事。他们知道，如果他们尝试戴上它，就会挨打耳光。此外，他们从来没有梦想过尝试，我们会以一种开放、友好的方式握手，就像好朋友一样，但从来没有说过接吻的话，但我们仍然是朋友。 嘿，如果你追求的是我的友谊，你就没什么可抱怨的；我一定是非常喜欢你才能原谅你。但我确信你根本不关心我，真的。现在承认吧，你爱的是安德烈。毕竟，你是对的；她比我漂亮多了，而且非常迷人！哦！你们这些人！”尽管我最近感到很失望，但他如此坦率地说出的这句话，使我对阿尔贝蒂娜表示了极大的尊重，给我留下了非常愉快的印象。也许这种印象后来给我带来了严重而恼人的后果，因为正是在这种印象的周围，开始形成了一种近乎兄弟般的亲密感，这种道德核心始终是我对阿尔贝蒂娜的爱的核心。这种感觉可能是最剧烈疼痛的原因。因为要想真正在一个女人的手中受苦，就必须完全相信她。此刻，道德尊重和友谊的萌芽就像溪流中的垫脚石一样嵌入我体内。如果它一直留在那里而不增长，它本身就不会对我的幸福产生任何影响，在第二年，尤其是在第一次访问巴尔贝克的最后几周，它会保持一种惯性。它像那些异物一样住在我体内，如果说把所有东西都驱逐掉，那就更明智了，但我们把它们留在原处而不打扰它们，它们的弱点、它们在陌生环境中的孤立使它们目前无害。 。

My dreams were now once more at liberty to concentrate on one or another of Albertine’s friends, and returned first of all to Andrée, whose kindnesses might perhaps have appealed to me less strongly had I not been certain that they would come to Albertine’s ears. Undoubtedly the preference that I had long been pretending to feel for Andrée had furnished me—in the habit of conversation with her, of declaring my affection—with, so to speak, the material, prepared and ready, for a love of her which had hitherto lacked only the complement of a genuine sentiment, and this my heart being once more free was now in a position to supply. But for me really to love Andrée, she was too intellectual, too neurotic, too sickly, too much like myself. If Albertine now seemed to me to be void of substance, Andrée was filled with something which I knew only too well. I had thought, that first day, that what I saw on the beach there was the mistress of some racing cyclist, passionately athletic; and now Andrée told me that if she had taken up athletic pastimes, it was under orders from her doctor, to cure her neurasthenia, her digestive troubles, but that her happiest hours were those which she spent in translating one of George Eliot’s novels. The misunderstanding, due to an initial mistake as to what Andrée was, had not, as a matter of fact, the slightest importance. But my mistake was one of the kind which, if they allow love to be born, and are not recognised as mistakes until it has ceased to be under control, become a cause of suffering. Such mistakes—which may be quite different from mine with regard to Andrée, and even its exact opposite,—are frequently due (and this was especially the case here) to our paying too much attention to the aspect, the manners of what a person is not but would like to be, in forming our first impression of that person. To the outward appearance affectation, imitation, the longing to be admired, whether by the good or by the wicked, add misleading similarities of speech and gesture. These are cynicisms and cruelties which, when put to the test, prove no more genuine than certain apparent virtues and generosities. Just as we often discover a vain miser beneath the cloak of a man famed for his bountiful charity, so her flaunting of vice leads us to suppose a Messalina a respectable girl with middle-class prejudices. I had thought to find in Andrée a healthy, primitive creature, whereas she was merely a person in search of health, as were doubtless many of those in whom she herself had thought to find it, and who were in reality no more healthy than a burly arthritic with a red face and in white flannels is necessarily a Hercules. Now there are circumstances in which it is not immaterial to our happiness that the person whom we have loved because of what appeared to be so healthy about her is in reality only one of those invalids who receive such health as they possess from others, as the planets borrow their light, as certain bodies are only conductors of electricity.
我的梦现在又可以自由地集中在阿尔贝蒂娜的一个或另一个朋友身上，首先回到安德烈身上，如果我不确定他的善意是否会传到阿尔贝蒂娜的耳朵里，我对他的好意的吸引力可能就不那么强烈了。毫无疑问，我长期以来假装对安德烈的喜爱已经为我提供了——在与她交谈的习惯中，表达我的感情——可以说，为我对她的爱提供了准备好的材料。迄今为止，我所缺乏的只是一种真诚的情感，而我的心再次自由了，现在可以补充这种情感了。但对于我真正爱安德烈来说，她太聪明、太神经质、太病态、太像我了。如果说现在阿尔贝蒂娜在我看来缺乏实质内容，那么安德烈则充满了我再熟悉不过的东西了。第一天，我以为我在海滩上看到的是某个自行车赛车手的情妇，她充满了运动热情；现在安德烈告诉我，如果她从事运动消遣，那是按照她的医生的指示，以治疗她的神经衰弱和消化问题，但她最快乐的时光是在翻译乔治·艾略特的一本小说时度过的。由于最初对安德烈的身份产生了错误，所以产生了误解，事实上，这一点并不重要。但我的错误就是这样一种错误，如果他们允许爱诞生，并且直到它不再受到控制才被认为是错误，那么就会成为痛苦的根源。 这些错误——对于安德烈来说，可能与我的错误完全不同，甚至完全相反——常常是由于（尤其是这里的情况）我们过于关注一个人的外貌、举止。不是但愿意，在形成我们对那个人的第一印象时。除了外表上的矫揉造作、模仿和渴望受到好人或坏人的钦佩外，还加上了言语和手势的误导性相似之处。这些都是愤世嫉俗和残忍的行为，经过考验，它们并不比某些表面上的美德和慷慨更真实。正如我们经常发现一个以慷慨施舍而闻名的男人的外衣下隐藏着一个虚荣的守财奴一样，她对恶行的炫耀也让我们认为梅萨琳娜是一个受人尊敬的女孩，但她怀有中产阶级的偏见。我本想在安德烈身上找到一个健康、原始的生物，而她只是一个寻求健康的人，毫无疑问，她自己也想过在其中找到健康的许多人，而实际上，他们的健康程度并不比一个人更健康。身材魁梧、红脸、身穿白色法兰绒的关节炎患者一定是赫拉克勒斯。在某些情况下，我们所爱的人看起来很健康，但实际上她只是那些从别人那里得到健康的病人之一，这对我们的幸福并不是无关紧要的。行星借用它们的光，因为某些物体只是电的导体。

No matter, Andrée, like Rosemonde and Gisèle, indeed more than they, was, when all was said, a friend of Albertine, sharing her life, imitating her conduct, so closely that, the first day, I had not at once distinguished them one from another. Over these girls, flowering sprays of roses whose principal charm was that they outlined themselves against the sea, the same undivided partnership prevailed as at the time when I did not know them, when the appearance of no matter which of them had caused me such violent emotion by its announcement that the little band was not far off. And even now the sight of one of them filled me with a pleasure into which there entered, to an extent which I should not have found it easy to define, the thought of seeing the others follow her in due course, and even if they did not come that day, speaking about them, and knowing that they would be told that I had been on the beach.
不管怎样，安德烈，就像罗斯蒙德和吉赛尔一样，实际上比他们更重要的是，总而言之，是阿尔贝蒂娜的朋友，分享她的生活，模仿她的行为，如此密切，以至于第一天我没有立即区分他们。一个来自另一个。在这些女孩身上，绽放着玫瑰花，其主要魅力在于她们在大海的映衬下勾勒出自己的轮廓，同样的不可分割的伙伴关系盛行，就像我不认识她们的时候一样，当时无论她们中的哪一个出现都让我如此暴力宣布小乐队就在不远的地方，令人激动不已。即使是现在，一看到她们中的一个，我就充满了一种快乐，想到看到其他人在适当的时候跟随她，即使他们这样做了，我也无法轻易地定义这种快乐。那天我没有来，谈论他们，并且知道他们会被告知我去过海滩。

It was no longer simply the attraction of those first days, it was a regular love-longing which hesitated among them all, so far was each the natural substitute for the others. My bitterest grief would not have been to be thrown over by whichever of the girls I liked best, but I should at once have liked best, because I should have fastened on to her the whole of the melancholy dream which had been floating vaguely among them all, her who had thrown me over. It would, moreover, in that event, be the loss of all her friends, in whose eyes I should speedily have forfeited whatever advantage I might possess, that I should, in losing her, have unconsciously regretted, having vowed to them that sort of collective love which the politician and the actor feel for the public for whose desertion of them after they have enjoyed all its favours they can never be consoled. Even those favours which I had failed to win from Albertine I would hope suddenly to receive from one or other who had parted from me in the evening with a word or glance of ambiguous meaning, thanks to which it was to her that, for the next day or so, my desire would turn. It strayed among them all the more voluptuously in that upon those volatile faces a comparative fixation of features had now begun, and had been carried far enough for the eye to distinguish—even if it were to change yet further—each malleable and floating effigy. To the differences that existed among them there was doubtless very little that corresponded in the no less marked differences in the length and breadth of those features, any of which might, perhaps, dissimilar as the girls appeared, almost have been lifted bodily from one face and imposed at random upon any other. But our knowledge of faces is not mathematical. In the first place, it does not begin with the measurement of the parts, it takes as its starting point an expression, a combination of the whole. In Andrée, for instance, the fineness of her gentle eyes seemed to go with the thinness of her nose, as slender as a mere curve which one could imagine as having been traced in order to produce along a single line the idea of delicacy divided higher up between the dual smile of her twin gaze. A line equally fine was engraved in her hair, pliant and deep as the line with which the wind furrows the sand. And in her it must have been hereditary; for the snow-white hair of Andrée’s mother was driven in the same way, forming here a swelling, there a depression, like a snowdrift that rises or sinks according to the irregularities of the soil. Certainly, when compared with the fine delineation of Andrée’s, Rosemonde’s nose seemed to present broad surfaces, like a high tower raised upon massive foundations. Albeit expression suffices to make us believe in enormous differences between things that are separated by infinitely little—albeit that infinitely little may by itself create an expression that is absolutely unique, an individuality—it was not only the infinitely little of its lines and the originality of its expression that made each of these faces appear irreducible to terms of any other. Between my friends’ faces their colouring established a separation wider still, not so much by the varied beauty of the tones with which it provided them, so contrasted that I felt when I looked at Rosemonde—flooded with a sulphurous rose colour, with the further contrast of the greenish light in her eyes—and then at Andrée—whose white cheeks received such an austere distinction from her black hair—the same kind of pleasure as if I had been looking alternately at a geranium growing by a sunlit sea and a camellia in the night; but principally because the infinitely little differences of their lines were enlarged out of all proportion, the relations between one and another surface entirely changed by this new element of colour which, in addition to being a dispenser of tints, is great at restoring, or rather at altering, dimensions. So that faces which were perhaps constructed on not dissimilar lines, according as they were lighted by the flaming torch of an auburn poll or high complexion, or by the white glimmer of a dull pallor, grew sharper or broader, became something else, like those properties used in the Russian ballet, consisting sometimes, when they are seen in the light of day, of a mere disc of paper, out of which the genius of a Bakst, according to the blood-red or moonlit effect in which he plunges his stage, makes a hard incrustation, like a turquoise on a palace well, or a swooning softness, as of a Bengal rose in an eastern garden. And so when acquiring a knowledge of faces we take careful measurements, but as painters, not as surveyors.
这不再仅仅是最初几天的吸引力，而是一种在他们之中犹豫不决的常规的爱情渴望，到目前为止，每个人都是其他人的自然替代品。我最痛苦的悲伤不会是被我最喜欢的女孩抛弃，但我应该立刻就喜欢最好的，因为我应该把一直在她们中间模糊地漂浮的整个忧郁的梦想紧紧地绑在她身上。全部，就是那个把我扔下去的人。而且，如果那样的话，我就会失去她所有的朋友，在他们眼里我很快就会失去我可能拥有的一切优势，我会在失去她时不自觉地后悔，因为我曾向他们发过这样的誓言。政治家和演员对公众所感受到的集体之爱，因为公众在享受了所有的恩惠之后却抛弃了他们，他们永远无法得到安慰。即使是那些我未能从阿尔贝蒂娜那里得到的恩惠，我也希望能突然从那天晚上与我告别的某个人那里得到一个含糊其辞的话语或一个眼神，多亏了她，我才能在接下来的日子里得到她的帮助。大约一天后，我的愿望就会转变。它在他们中间更加性感地徘徊，因为在那些变化无常的脸上，一种特征的相对固定现在已经开始，并且已经足够远，足以使眼睛能够区分——即使它会进一步改变——每一个可塑的和漂浮的雕像。毫无疑问，她们之间存在的差异，与这些特征的长度和宽度上同样明显的差异几乎没有什么对应，其中任何一个都可能与女孩们的外表不同，几乎是从一张脸上升起的。并随机强加于任何其他人。但我们对面孔的了解不是数学的。 首先，它不是从部分的测量开始，而是以一种表达、整体的组合作为出发点。例如，在安德烈身上，她温柔的眼睛的精致似乎与她纤细的鼻子相得益彰，纤细得就像一条曲线，人们可以想象它是为了沿着一条线描绘出精致的概念而被描绘出来的。在她双眸的双重微笑之间。她的头发上刻着一条同样细密的线条，柔韧而深邃，就像风在沙子上留下的皱纹一样。对她来说，这一定是遗传的；因为安德烈母亲的雪白头发也受到同样的驱使，这里形成隆起，那里形成凹陷，就像雪堆一样，随着土壤的不规则而上升或下沉。当然，与安德烈的精致轮廓相比，罗斯蒙德的鼻子显得宽阔，就像一座高塔耸立在巨大的地基上。尽管表达足以让我们相信相隔无限小的事物之间存在着巨大的差异——尽管无限小的本身可能创造出一种绝对独特的表达，一种个性——但它不仅仅是线条的无限小和原创性。它的表情使得这些面孔中的每一张都显得无法用任何其他的术语来概括。 在我朋友们的脸上，他们的肤色建立了更宽的分离，与其说是因为它为他们提供了各种美丽的色调，不如说是当我看着罗斯蒙德时，我感觉到了——充满了硫磺玫瑰色，与进一步的颜色形成了鲜明的对比。她眼中绿光的对比——然后是安德烈——她白皙的脸颊与她的黑发形成了鲜明的对比——同样的愉悦感，就像我交替看着阳光照射下的大海上生长的天竺葵和山茶花一样在晚上；但主要是因为它们线条上无限小的差异被不成比例地放大了，一个表面和另一个表面之间的关系完全被这种新的颜色元素改变了，它除了作为色调的分配器之外，还非常擅长恢复，或者更确切地说，在改变尺寸时。因此，那些也许是由相似的线条构成的面孔，根据它们被赤褐色或高肤色的火炬照亮，或被暗淡的苍白的白色微光照亮，变得更尖锐或更宽，变成了其他东西，就像那些俄罗斯芭蕾舞剧中使用的特性，有时，当它们在白天看到时，只是一张纸盘，其中巴克斯特的天才，根据他投入的血红色或月光效果。舞台上，形成坚硬的硬壳，如宫殿井上的绿松石，或令人晕眩的柔软，如东方花园中的孟加拉玫瑰。因此，在获取有关面孔的知识时，我们会仔细测量，但作为画家，而不是测量员。

So it was with Albertine as with her friends. On certain days, slim, with grey cheeks, a sullen air, a violet transparency falling obliquely from her such as we notice sometimes on the sea, she seemed to be feeling the sorrows of exile. On other days her face, more sleek, caught and glued my desires to its varnished surface and prevented them from going any farther; unless I caught a sudden glimpse of her from the side, for her dull cheeks, like white wax on the surface, were visibly pink beneath, which made me anxious to kiss them, to reach that different tint which thus avoided my touch. At other times happiness bathed her cheeks with a clarity so mobile that the skin, grown fluid and vague, gave passage to a sort of stealthy and subcutaneous gaze, which made it appear to be of another colour but not of another substance than her eyes; sometimes, instinctively, when one looked at her face punctuated with tiny brown marks among which floated what were simply two larger, bluer stains, it was like looking at the egg of a goldfinch—or often like an opalescent agate cut and polished in two places only, where, from the heart of the brown stone, shone like the transparent wings of a sky-blue butterfly her eyes, those features in which the flesh becomes a mirror and gives us the illusion that it allows us, more than through the other parts of the body, to approach the soul. But most often of all she shewed more colour, and was then more animated; sometimes the only pink thing in her white face was the tip of her nose, as finely pointed as that of a mischievous kitten with which one would have liked to stop and play; sometimes her cheeks were so glossy that one’s glance slipped, as over the surface of a miniature, over their pink enamel, which was made to appear still more delicate, more private, by the enclosing though half-opened case of her black hair; or it might happen that the tint of her cheeks had deepened to the violet shade of the red cyclamen, and, at times, even, when she was flushed or feverish, with a suggestion of un-healthiness which lowered my desire to something more sensual and made her glance expressive of something more perverse and unwholesome, to the deep purple of certain roses, a red that was almost black; and each of these Albertines was different, as in every fresh appearance of the dancer whose colours, form, character, are transmuted according to the innumerably varied play of a projected limelight. It was perhaps because they were so different, the persons whom I used to contemplate in her at this period, that later on I became myself a different person, corresponding to the particular Albertine to whom my thoughts had turned; a jealous, an indifferent, a voluptuous, a melancholy, a frenzied person, created anew not merely by the accident of what memory had risen to the surface, but in proportion also to the strength of the belief that was lent to the support of one and the same memory by the varying manner in which I appreciated it. For this is the point to which we must always return, to these beliefs with which most of the time we are quite unconsciously filled, but which for all that are of more importance to our happiness than is the average person whom we see, for it is through them that we see him, it is they that impart his momentary greatness to the person seen. To be quite accurate I ought to give a different name to each of the ‘me’s’ who were to think about Albertine in time to come; I ought still more to give a different name to each of the Albertines who appeared before me, never the same, like—called by me simply and for the sake of convenience ‘the sea’—those seas that succeeded one another on the beach, in front of which, a nymph likewise, she stood apart. But above all, in the same way as, in telling a story (though to far greater purpose here), one mentions what the weather was like on such and such a day, I ought always to give its name to the belief that, on any given day on which I saw Albertine, was reigning in my soul, creating its atmosphere, the appearance of people like that of seas being dependent on those clouds, themselves barely visible, which change the colour of everything by their concentration, their mobility, their dissemination, their flight—like that cloud which Elstir had rent one evening by not introducing me to these girls, with whom he had stopped to talk, whereupon their forms, as they moved away, had suddenly increased in beauty—a cloud that had formed again a few days later when I did get to know the girls, veiling their brightness, interposing itself frequently between my eyes and them, opaque and soft, like Virgil’s Leucothea.
阿尔贝蒂娜和她的朋友们都是如此。在某些日子里，她身材苗条，脸色灰白，神情阴沉，紫罗兰色的透明物从她身上斜斜地落下，就像我们有时在海上看到的那样，她似乎感受到了流放的悲伤。在其他日子里，她的脸更加光滑，抓住了我的欲望并将其粘在其光亮的表面上，阻止它们进一步发展；除非我突然从侧面瞥见她，否则她暗淡的脸颊表面像白蜡一样，下面明显是粉红色的，这让我急于亲吻它们，达到那种不同的色调，从而避免我的触摸。有时候，幸福的感觉如此清晰地沐浴在她的脸颊上，以至于变得流动而模糊的皮肤给一种偷偷摸摸的、皮下的凝视提供了通道，这使得它看起来是另一种颜色，但与她的眼睛不同，它不是另一种物质；有时候，当人们本能地看着她脸上点缀着微小的棕色痕迹（其中漂浮着两个更大、更蓝的污渍）时，就像在看金翅雀的蛋一样，或者通常就像在两处切割和抛光的乳白色玛瑙。只是，从棕色石头的中心，她的眼睛像天蓝色蝴蝶的透明翅膀一样闪闪发光，那些特征使肉体成为一面镜子，给我们一种幻觉，它让我们比通过其他人更多身体的各个部分，接近灵魂。 但最重要的是，她表现出更多的色彩，并且更加活跃。有时，她白皙的脸上唯一粉红色的东西就是她的鼻尖，尖尖的像一只顽皮的小猫，让人忍不住想停下来和它玩耍。有时，她的脸颊如此光滑，让人的视线滑过，就像滑过微型模型的表面，滑过粉红色的珐琅质一样，而她的黑发半开着，使脸颊显得更加精致，更加私密。或者，她脸颊的颜色可能会加深，变成红色仙客来的紫罗兰色，有时，甚至当她脸红或发烧时，都会有一种不健康的暗示，这会降低我对更性感的东西的渴望。使她的目光表现出某种更邪恶、更不健康的东西，比如某些玫瑰的深紫色，一种几乎是黑色的红色；这些阿尔贝蒂娜中的每一个都是不同的，就像舞者的每一个新鲜的外表一样，他们的色彩、形式、性格都随着聚光灯下无数不同的表演而变化。或许正因为我当时在她身上所想象的这些人是如此不同，所以后来我自己就变成了另外一个人，与我所思念的阿尔贝蒂娜相对应。一个嫉妒的人，一个冷漠的人，一个纵欲的人，一个忧郁的人，一个疯狂的人，重新创造出来的人不仅是由于记忆浮出水面的偶然，而且也与支撑一个人的信念的强度成正比。我以不同的方式欣赏同样的记忆。 因为这是我们必须始终回到的一点，回到这些信念，大多数时候我们无意识地充满了这些信念，但尽管如此，这些信念对我们的幸福比我们所看到的普通人更重要，因为它正是通过他们，我们才看到了他，正是他们将他短暂的伟大传递给了所见之人。准确地说，我应该给每一个将来想起阿尔贝蒂娜的“我”起一个不同的名字。我更应该给出现在我面前的每一位阿尔贝蒂娜起一个不同的名字，绝不相同，就像——为了方便起见，我简单地称其为“大海”——那些在海滩上相继出现的大海，在她面前，同样是一位仙女，她站在一边。但最重要的是，就像在讲故事时（尽管这里有更大的目的），人们提到某天的天气情况一样，我应该始终将其命名为以下信念：我见到阿尔贝蒂娜的每一​​天，都在我的灵魂中占据主导地位，创造了它的气氛，人们的外表就像海洋一样​​依赖于那些云，它们本身几乎看不见，它们通过它们的集中度、流动性改变了一切的颜色，它们的传播，它们的飞翔——就像埃尔斯蒂尔有一天晚上租来的那朵云，没有把我介绍给他停下来与她们交谈的这些女孩，于是，当她们走开时，她们的形状突然变得更加美丽——一朵云，几天后，当我真正了解这些女孩时，它再次形成，遮盖了她们的明亮，经常介入我的眼睛和她们之间，不透明而柔软，就像维吉尔的Leucothea。

No doubt, all their faces had assumed quite new meanings for me since the manner in which they were to be read had been to some extent indicated to me by their talk, talk to which I could ascribe a value all the greater in that, by questioning them, I could prompt it whenever I chose, could vary it like an experimenter who seeks by corroborative proofs to establish the truth of his theory. And it is, after all, as good a way as any of solving the problem of existence to approach near enough to the things that have appeared to us from a distance to be beautiful and mysterious, to be able to satisfy ourselves that they have neither mystery nor beauty. It is one of the systems of hygiene among which we are at liberty to choose our own, a system which is perhaps not to be recommended too strongly, but it gives us a certain tranquillity with which to spend what remains of life, and also—since it enables us to regref nothing, by assuring us that we have attained to the best, and that the best was nothing out of the common—with which to resign ourselves to death.
毫无疑问，他们所有的面孔对我来说都具有了全新的意义，因为他们的谈话在某种程度上向我表明了他们的解读方式，我可以赋予这些谈话更大的价值，因为当我询问他们时，我可以随时提示它，也可以改变它，就像实验者寻求确凿的证据来确立其理论的真实性一样。毕竟，这与解决存在问题的任何方法一样好，足够接近我们从远处看来美丽而神秘的事物，能够让我们自己相信它们两者都没有。神秘也不美丽。这是我们可以自由选择自己的卫生制度之一，也许不值得强烈推荐，但它给了我们一定的安宁，让我们度过余生，而且——因为它使我们能够无所顾忌，向我们保证，我们已经达到了最好的水平，而最好的也不过是平凡的事——对此，我们只能听天由命。

I had now substituted, in the brains of these girls, for their supposed contempt for chastity, their memories of daily ‘incidents,’ honest principles, liable, it might be, to relaxation, but principles which had hitherto kept unscathed the children who had acquired them in their own respectable homes. And yet, when one has been mistaken from the start, even in trifling details, when an error of assumption or recollection makes one seek for the author of a malicious slander, or for the place where one has lost something, in the wrong direction, it frequently happens that one discovers one’s error only to substitute for it not the truth but a fresh error. I drew, so far as their manner of life and the proper way to behave with them went, all the possible conclusions from the word ‘Innocence’ which I had read, in talking familiarly with them, upon their faces. But perhaps I had been reading carelessly, with the inaccuracy born of a too rapid deciphering, and it was no more written there than was the name of Jules Ferry on the programme of the performance at which I had heard Berma for the first time, an omission which had not prevented me from maintaining to M. de Norpois that Jules Ferry, beyond any possibility of doubt, was a person who wrote curtain-raisers.
现在，在这些女孩的大脑中，我已经用诚实的原则代替了她们对贞洁的蔑视，用她们对日常“事件”的记忆来代替，这些原则可能会放松，但迄今为止，这些原则使那些没有受到过惩罚的孩子们毫发无伤。他们在自己受人尊敬的家里获得了它们。然而，当一个人从一开始就犯了错误，即使是在一些琐碎的细节上，当一个假设或记忆的错误使一个人朝着错误的方向寻找恶意诽谤的作者，或者一个人丢失东西的地方时，经常发生这样的情况：一个人发现了自己的错误，但取而代之的不是事实，而是一个新的错误。就他们的生活方式和与他们相处的正确方式而言，我从我在与他们熟悉的谈话中读到的“纯真”一词中得出了所有可能的结论。但也许我读得很粗心，破译速度太快而产生了不准确，那里没有写上朱尔斯·费里的名字，就像我第一次听到贝尔玛的演出节目表上写的一样，尽管这一遗漏并没有妨碍我向德·诺普瓦先生坚持认为朱尔斯·费里毫无疑问是一个写幕后故事的人。

No matter which it might be of my friends of the little band, was not inevitably the face that I had last seen the only face that I could recall, since, of our memories with respect to a person, the mind eliminates everything that does not agree with our immediate purpose of our daily relations (especially if those relations are quickened with an element of love which, ever unsatisfied, lives always in the moment that is about to come)? That purpose allows the chain of spent days to slip away, holding on only to the very end of it, often of a quite different metal from the links that have vanished in the night, and in the journey which we make through life, counts as real only in the place in which we at any given moment are. But all those earliest impressions, already so remote, could not find, against the blunting process that assailed them day after day, any remedy in my memory; during the long hours which I spent in talking, eating, playing with these girls, I did not remember even that they were the same ruthless, sensual virgins whom I had seen, as in a fresco, file past between me and the sea.
无论是我的小乐队的朋友中的哪一个，都不一定是我最后一次见到的那张脸，是我唯一能回忆起来的脸，因为，在我们对一个人的记忆中，头脑会消除所有不记得的东西。同意我们日常关系的直接目的（特别是如果这些关系因爱的元素而加速，而爱的元素永远不会满足，永远存在于即将到来的那一刻）？这个目的让度过的日子的链条溜走，只抓住它的末端，通常是用一种与夜间消失的链接完全不同的金属制成的，并且在我们一生的旅程中，算作只有在我们在任何特定时刻所处的地方才是真实的。但所有那些最早的印象，已经如此遥远，无法在我的记忆中找到任何补救办法，以对抗日复一日地攻击它们的钝化过程；在我与这些女孩聊天、吃饭、玩耍的漫长时间里，我什至不记得她们是我在壁画中看到的那些冷酷、性感的处女，在我和大海之间鱼贯而过。

Geographers, archaeologists may conduct us over Calypso’s island, may excavate the Palace of Minos. Only Calypso becomes then nothing more than a woman, Minos than a king with no semblance of divinity. Even the good and bad qualities which history teaches us to have been the attributes of those quite real personages, often differ widely from those which we had ascribed to the fabulous beings who bore the same names as they. Thus had there faded and vanished all the lovely mythology of Ocean which I had composed in those first days. But it is not altogether immaterial that we do succeed, at any rate now and then, in spending our time in familiar intercourse with what we have thought to be unattainable and have longed to possess. In our later dealings with people whom at first we found disagreeable there persists always, even among the artificial pleasure which we have come at length to enjoy in their society, the lingering taint of the defects which they have succeeded in hiding. But, in relations such as I was now having with Albertine and her friends, the genuine pleasure which was there at the start leaves that fragrance which no amount of skill can impart to hot-house fruits, to grapes that have not ripened in the sun. The supernatural creatures which for a little time they had been to me still introduced, even without any intention on my part, a miraculous element into the most commonplace dealings that I might have with them, or rather prevented such dealings from ever becoming commonplace at all. My desire had sought so ardently to learn the significance of the eyes which now knew and smiled to see me, but whose glances on the first day had crossed mine like rays from another universe; it had distributed so generously, so carefully, so minutely, colour and fragrance over the carnation surfaces of these girls who now, outstretched on the cliff-top, were simply offering me sandwiches or guessing riddles, that often, in the afternoon, while I lay there among them, like those painters who seek to match the grandeurs of antiquity in modern life, give to a woman cutting her toe-nail the nobility of the Spinario, or, like Rubens, make goddesses out of women whom they know, to people some mythological scene; at those lovely forms, dark and fair, so dissimilar in type, scattered around me in the grass, I would gaze without emptying them, perhaps, of all the mediocre contents with which my everyday experience had filled them, and at the same time without expressly recalling their heavenly origin, as if, like young Hercules or young Telemachus, I had been set to play amid a band of nymphs.
地理学家、考古学家可能会带我们游览卡利普索岛，可能会挖掘米诺斯宫。只有卡吕普索只不过是一个女人，米诺斯只是一个没有神性外表的国王。即使是历史告诉我们的那些相当真实的人物的品质的好坏，也常常与我们赋予与他们同名的神话人物的品质有很大不同。就这样，我在最初的日子里所创作的所有可爱的海洋神话都消失了。但无论如何，我们时不时地花时间与我们认为无法实现但渴望拥有的东西进行熟悉的交流，这并不是完全无关紧要的。在我们后来与那些起初我们觉得不愉快的人打交道时，即使在我们最终在他们的社会中享受到的人为快乐中，他们成功地隐藏的缺陷的挥之不去的污点始终存在。但是，在我现在与阿尔贝蒂娜和她的朋友们的关系中，一开始的真正快乐留下了那种香气，这是任何技巧都无法赋予温室水果、未在阳光下成熟的葡萄的香气。 。这些超自然生物在一段时间内对我来说仍然是一种神奇的元素，即使我没有任何意图，我可能会与它们进行最常见的交往，或者更确切地说，阻止这种交往变得司空见惯。 。 我曾经如此热切地渴望了解那双眼睛的意义，它们现在认识我，并微笑着看着我，但第一天它们的目光就像来自另一个宇宙的光线一样与我擦肩而过；我的眼睛在我的眼睛里留下了深刻的印象。它如此慷慨，如此仔细，如此细致地在这些女孩的康乃馨表面上散发出色彩和香气，而现在，她们在悬崖顶上伸开懒腰，只是给我提供三明治或猜谜语，通常是在下午，当我躺在他们中间，就像那些试图在现代生活中匹配古代宏伟的画家一样，赋予剪脚趾甲的女人斯宾纳里奥的高贵，或者像鲁本斯一样，把他们认识的女人塑造成女神，人们一些神话场景；那些可爱的形状，深色的和白色的，类型如此不同，散布在我周围的草地上，我会凝视它们，也许不会清空它们，也许，我的日常经历充满了它们的所有平庸的内容，同时也没有清空它们。明确地回忆起他们的天堂起源，仿佛，就像年轻的赫拉克勒斯或年轻的特勒马科斯一样，我被安排在一群仙女中演奏。

Then the concerts ended, the bad weather began, my friends left Balbec; not all at once, like the swallows, but all in the same week. Albertine was the first to go, abruptly, without any of her friends understanding, then or afterwards, why she had returned suddenly to Paris whither neither her work nor any amusement summoned her. ‘She said neither why nor wherefore, and with that she left!’ muttered Françoise, who, for that matter, would have liked us to leave as well. We were, she thought, inconsiderate towards the staff, now greatly reduced in number, but retained on account of the few visitors who were still staying on, and towards the manager who was ‘just eating up money.’ It was true that the hotel, which would very soon be closed for the winter, had long since seen most of its patrons depart, but never had it been so attractive. This view was not shared by the manager; from end to end of the rooms in which we sat shivering, and and at the doors of which no page now stood on guard, he paced the corridors, wearing a new frock coat, so well tended by the hairdresser that his insipid face appeared to be made of some composition in which, for one part of flesh, there were three of cosmetics, incessantly changing his neckties. (These refinements cost less than having the place heated and keeping on the staff, just as a man who is no longer able to subscribe ten thousand francs to a charity can still parade his generosity without inconvenience to himself by tipping the boy who brings him a telegram with five.) He appeared to be inspecting the empty air, to be seeking to give, by the smartness of his personal appearance, a provisional splendour to the desolation that could now be felt in this hotel where the season had not been good, and walked like the ghost of a monarch who returns to haunt the ruins of what was once his palace. He was particularly annoyed when the little local railway company, finding the supply of passengers inadequate, discontinued its trains until the following spring. ‘What is lacking here,’ said the manager, ‘is the means of commotion.’ In spite of the deficit which his books shewed, he was making plans for the future on a lavish scale. And as he was, after all, capable of retaining an exact memory of fine language when it was directly applicable to the hotel-keeping industry and had the effect of enhancing its importance: ‘I was not adequately supported, although in the dining room I had an efficient squad,’ he explained; ‘but the pages left something to be desired. You will see, next year, what a phalanx I shall collect.’ In the meantime the suspension of the services of the B. C. B. obliged him to send for letters and occasionally to dispatch visitors in a light cart. I would often ask leave to sit by the driver, and in this way I managed to be out in all weathers, as in the winter that I had spent at Combray.
然后音乐会结束了，恶劣的天气开始了，我的朋友们离开了巴尔贝克；不是像燕子那样一次性全部完成，而是在同一周内全部完成。阿尔贝蒂娜是第一个突然离开的，无论是当时还是之后，她的朋友们都不明白她为什么突然回到巴黎，因为那里既不工作也不娱乐。 “她既没有说为什么，也没有说为什么，然后就离开了！”弗朗索瓦丝嘀咕道，就此而言，她也希望我们也离开。她认为，我们对工作人员不体贴，现在人数已大大减少，但由于仍然留下来的少数游客而保留了下来，对“只是吃钱”的经理也很不体贴。很快就会因冬季关闭，大部分顾客早已离开，但它从未如此有吸引力。经理并不同意这个观点；我们坐在房间里瑟瑟发抖，在没有侍从把守的门口，他在走廊里踱来踱去，穿着一件新礼服，理发师精心打理过，他那张平淡无奇的脸显得格外引人注目。是由某种成分制成的，其中一部分肉，有三种化妆品，不断地更换他的领带。 （这些改进的成本比给这个地方供暖和留住工作人员要低，就像一个人不再能够向慈善机构捐款一万法郎一样，他仍然可以通过给给他带来礼物的男孩小费来炫耀他的慷慨，而不会给自己带来不便。电报五。）他似乎在审视着空荡荡的空气，试图通过他的个人仪表的聪明，给这家季节不佳的旅馆里现在可​​以感受到的荒凉带来暂时的辉煌，他走路就像一位君主的鬼魂回来困扰曾经是他宫殿的废墟。当当地的小铁路公司发现乘客供应不足，直到第二年春天才停止运营列车时，他尤其恼火。经理说，“这里缺乏的是骚动的手段。”尽管他的书显示出缺陷，但他正在为未来制定大规模的计划。毕竟，当他直接适用于酒店管理行业并具有增强其重要性的效果时，他能够保留对精美语言的准确记忆：“我没有得到充分的支持，尽管在餐厅里我他解释说：“我们有一支高效的队伍。” “但是这些书页还有一些不足之处。明年你就会看到我将收集多少方阵。”与此同时，B.C.B. 的服务暂停，迫使他寄出信件，有时还用轻型推车派遣访客。我经常请假坐在司机旁边，这样我就可以在任何天气下外出，就像我在贡布雷度过的冬天一样。

Sometimes, however, the driving rain kept my grandmother and me, the Casino being closed, in rooms almost completely deserted, as in the lowest hold of a ship when a storm is raging; and there, day by day, as in the course of a sea-voyage, a new person from among those in whose company we had spent three months without getting to know them, the chief magistrate from Caen, the leader of the Cherbourg bar, an American lady and her daughters, came up to us, started conversation, discovered some way of making the time pass less slowly, revealed some social accomplishment, taught us a new game, invited us to drink tea or to listen to music, to meet them at a certain hour, to plan together some of those diversions which contain the true secret of pleasure-giving, which is to aim not at giving pleasure but simply at helping us to pass the time of our boredom, in a word, formed with us, at the end of our stay at Balbec, ties of friendship which, in a day or two, their successive departures from the place would sever. I even made the acquaintance of the rich young man, of one of his pair of aristocratic friends and of the actress, who had reappeared for a few days; but their little society was composed now of three persons only, the other friend having returned to Paris. They asked me to come out to dinner with them at their restaurant. I think, they were just as well pleased that I did not accept. But they had given the invitation in the most friendly way imaginable, and albeit it came actually from the rich young man, since the others were only his guests, as the friend who was staying with him, the Marquis Maurice de Vaudémont, came of a very good family indeed, instinctively the actress, in asking me whether I would not come, said, to flatter my vanity: ‘Maurice will be so pleased.’
然而，有时候，倾盆大雨让我和祖母在赌场关门的情况下，呆在几乎完全空无一人的房间里，就像暴风雨肆虐时，待在船的最底层一样。在那里，日复一日，就像在海上航行的过程中一样，我们在我们相处了三个月却没有认识的人中出现了一个新人，来自卡昂的首席法官，瑟堡律师协会的领导人，一位美国女士和她的女儿们向我们走来，开始交谈，发现了一些让时间过得不慢的方法，透露了一些社交成就，教我们一种新游戏，邀请我们喝茶或听音乐，见面在某个时间，一起计划一些消遣，其中包含给予快乐的真正秘密，其目的不是给予快乐，而只是帮助我们打发无聊的时间，总之，当我们在巴尔贝克停留结束时，我们之间的友谊关系在一两天之内就会因为他们相继离开这个地方而断绝。我什至结识了那个富有的年轻人、他的一对贵族朋友和几天后才重新出现的女演员；但他们的小团体现在只剩下三个人了，另一个朋友已经回到了巴黎。他们邀请我去他们的餐厅和他们一起吃饭。我想，他们也很高兴我没有接受。 但他们以最友好的方式发出了邀请，尽管这实际上是来自那位富有的年轻人，因为其他人只是他的客人，因为和他住在一起的朋友莫里斯·德·沃德蒙侯爵来自一个贵族家庭。家庭确实很好，女演员本能地问我是否不来，为了满足我的虚荣心说：“莫里斯会很高兴的。”’

And when in the hall of the hotel I met them all three together, it was M. de Vaudémont (the rich young man effacing himself) who said to me: ‘Won’t you give us the pleasure of dining with us?’
当我在旅馆的大厅里见到他们三个人时，德·沃德蒙先生（那个谦逊的富有的年轻人）对我说：“你不愿意让我们有机会和我们一起用餐吗？”

On the whole I had derived very little benefit from Balbec, but this only strengthened my desire to return there. It seemed to me that I had not stayed there long enough. This was not what my friends at home were thinking, who wrote to ask whether I meant to stay there for the rest of my life. And when I saw that it was the name ‘Balbec’ which they were obliged to put on the envelope—just as my window looked out not over a landscape or a street but on to the plains of the sea, as I heard through the night its murmur to which I had before going to sleep entrusted my ship of dreams, I had the illusion that this life of promiscuity with the waves must effectively, without my knowledge, pervade me with the notion of their charm, like those lessons which one leams by heart while one is asleep.
总的来说，我从巴尔贝克得到的好处很少，但这只会增强我返回那里的愿望。我觉得我在那里待的时间还不够长。家里的朋友可不是这么想的，他们写信问我是否打算在那里度过余生。当我看到这是“巴尔贝克”这个名字时，他们不得不把它写在信封上——就像我的窗户看到的不是风景或街道，而是大海的平原，正如我整夜听到的那样入睡前我的低语声托付了我的梦之船，我有一种幻觉，这种与波浪混杂的生活一定会在我不知情的情况下有效地让我感受到它们的魅力，就像人们学习的那些课程一样当一个人睡着的时候，用心记住。

The manager offered to reserve better rooms for me next year, but I had now become attached to mine, into which I went without ever noticing the scent of flowering grasses, while my mind, which had once found such difficulty in rising to fill its space had come now to take its measurements so exactly that I was obliged to submit it to a reverse process when I had to sleep in Paris, in my own room, the ceiling of which was low.
经理提出明年为我保留更好的房间，但我现在已经对我的房间产生了依恋，我走进去，没有注意到花草的香味，而我的心灵，曾经发现很难上升到填补它的空间现在我来测量它的尺寸是如此精确，以至于当我不得不在巴黎睡觉时，我不得不将它提交给相反的过程，在我自己的房间里，天花板很低。

It was high time, indeed, to leave Balbec, for the cold and damp had become too penetrating for us to stay any longer in a hotel which had neither fireplaces in the rooms nor a central furnace. Moreover, I forgot almost immediately these last weeks of our stay. What my mind’s eye did almost invariably see when I thought of Balbec were the hours which, every morning during the fine weather, as I was going out in the afternoon with Albertine and her friends, my grandmother, following the doctor’s orders, insisted on my spending lying down, with the room darkened. The manager gave instructions that no noise was to be made on my landing, and came up himself to see that they were obeyed. Because the light outside was so strong, I kept drawn for as long as possible the big violet curtains which had adopted so hostile an attitude towards me the first evening. But as, in spite of the pins with which, so that the light should not enter, Françoise fastened them every night, pins which she alone knew how to unfasten; as in spite of the rugs, the red cretonne table-cover, the various fabrics collected here and there which she fitted in to her defensive scheme, she never succeeded in making them meet exactly, the darkness was not complete, and they allowed to spill over the carpet as it were a scarlet shower of anemone-petals, among which I could not resist the temptation to plunge my bare feet for a moment. And on the wall which faced the window and so was partially lighted, a cylinder of gold with no visible support was placed vertically and moved slowly along like the pillar of fire which went before the Hebrews in the desert. I went back to bed; obliged to taste without moving, in imagination only, and all at once, the pleasures of games, bathing, walks which the morning prompted, joy made my heart beat thunderingly like a machine set going at full speed but fixed to the ground, which can spend its energy only by turning upon its own axis.
的确，是时候离开巴尔贝克了，因为寒冷和潮湿已经变得太刺骨了，我们无法再呆在房间里既没有壁炉也没有中央火炉的旅馆里了。此外，我几乎立刻就忘记了我们逗留的最后几周。当我想到巴尔贝克时，我的心灵之眼几乎无一例外地看到的是，每天早上天气晴朗时，下午我和阿尔贝蒂娜和她的朋友们一起出去时，我的祖母按照医生的嘱咐，坚持让我躺着度过，房间变暗。经理指示我的平台上不得发出任何噪音，并亲自上楼查看是否有人遵守。因为外面的光线太强，所以我尽可能长时间地拉上紫色的大窗帘，第一天晚上它对我采取了如此敌对的态度。但是，尽管有别针，以免光线进入，弗朗索瓦丝每天晚上都会把它们固定起来，只有她知道如何解开。尽管有地毯、红色印花桌布、到处收集的各种布料，她将它们融入到她的防御计划中，但她从未成功地使它们完全相遇，黑暗并不完全，它们让它们溢出地毯上铺满了猩红色的海葵花瓣，我无法抗拒赤脚在其中停留片刻的诱惑。而在面向窗户、因此被部分照亮的墙上，竖立着一个看不见支撑物的金色圆柱体，并缓慢地移动，就像沙漠中希伯来人面前的火柱一样。 我回到床上；不得不一动不动地品味，只在想象中，突然间，早晨所带来的游戏、沐浴、散步的乐趣，快乐让我的心剧烈地跳动，就像一台全速运转但固定在地面上的机器，它可以仅通过绕其自身的轴转动来消耗其能量。

I knew that my friends were on the ‘front,’ but I did not see them as they passed before the links of the sea’s uneven chain, far at the back of which, and nestling amid its bluish peaks like an Italian citadel, one could occasionally, in a clear moment, make out the little town of Rivebelle, drawn in minutest detail by the sun. I did not see my friends, but (while there mounted to my belvedere the shout of the newsboy, the ‘journalists’ as Françoise used to call them, the shouts of the bathers and of children at play, punctuating like the cries of sea-birds the sound of the gently breaking waves) I guessed their presence, I heard their laughter enveloped like the laughter of the Nereids in the smooth tide of sound that rose to my ears. ‘We looked up,’ said Albertine in the evening, ‘to see if you were coming down. But your shutters were still closed when the concert began.’ At ten o’clock, sure enough, it broke out beneath my windows. In the intervals in the blare of the instruments, if the tide were high, would begin again, slurred and continuous, the gliding surge of a wave which seemed to enfold the notes of the violin in its crystal spirals and to be spraying its foam over echoes of a submarine music. I grew impatient because no one had yet come with my things, so that I might rise and dress. Twelve o’clock struck, Françoise arrived at last. And for months on end, in this Balbec to which I had so looked forward because I imagined it only as battered by the storm and buried in fogs, the weather had been so dazzling and so unchanging that when she came to open the window I could always, without once being wrong, expect to see the same patch of sunlight folded in the corner of the outer wall, of an unalterable colour which was less moving as a sign of summer than depressing as the colour of a lifeless and composed enamel. And after Françoise had removed her pins from the mouldings of the window-frame, taken down her various cloths, and drawn back the curtains, the summer day which she disclosed seemed as dead, as immemorially ancient as would have been a sumptuously attired dynastic mummy from which our old servant had done no more than pre-cautionally unwind the linen wrappings before displaying it to my gaze, embalmed in its vesture of gold.
我知道我的朋友们在“前线”，但当他们经过那条崎岖不平的海洋链条之前，我并没有看到他们，在海洋的后面很远的地方，坐落在像意大利城堡一样的蓝色山峰之中，人们可以看到他们。偶尔，在晴朗的时刻，你可以看到里维贝尔小镇被阳光描绘得极其细致。我没有看到我的朋友们，但是（当我的观景台上传来报童的叫喊声，弗朗索瓦丝过去称呼他们为“记者”，沐浴者和玩耍的孩子们的叫喊声，像大海的呼喊声一样断断续续——鸟儿轻轻拍打海浪的声音）我猜到了他们的存在，我听到他们的笑声像海女的笑声一样笼罩在我耳边的平稳的声音浪潮中。 “我们抬头看了看，”阿尔贝蒂娜晚上说道，“看看你是否要下来。但音乐会开始时，你的百叶窗还关着。”十点钟，果然，它在我的窗下爆发了。在乐器鸣响的间隙中，如果潮水很高，就会再次开始，含糊而连续，波浪的滑行浪潮似乎将小提琴的音符包裹在水晶螺旋中，并在上面喷洒泡沫。潜艇音乐的回声。我变得不耐烦了，因为还没有人来拿我的东西，让我起身穿衣服。十二点钟敲响了，弗朗索瓦丝终于到了。 连续几个月，在这个我如此期待的巴尔贝克，因为我想象它只是被暴风雨袭击并被雾气笼罩，天气一直如此令人眼花缭乱，如此一成不变，以至于当她来打开窗户时，我可以看到它。总是期望看到同一片阳光折叠在外墙的角落里，没有一次是错误的，它的颜色一成不变，与其说是夏天的标志，不如说是沉闷的、毫无生气的、沉稳的珐琅颜色。弗朗索瓦丝从窗框的装饰条上取下别针，取下各种衣服，拉开窗帘后，她所透露的夏日似乎已经死了，就像一具盛装华丽的王朝木乃伊一样古老。我们的老仆人只是小心翼翼地解开了亚麻布包裹，然后将它展示在我眼前，它裹着金色的外衣，经过防腐处理。

THE END
结束