Kidnapped
被绑架
Kidnapped
被绑架
PREFACE TO THE BIOGRAPHICAL EDITION
传记版序言
CHAPTER II SET OFF UPON MY JOURNEY TO THE HOUSE OF SHAWS
第二章 踏上萧家之旅
CHAPTER III COME TO MY JOURNEY’S END
第三章 我的旅程即将结束
CHAPTER IIII MAKE ACQUAINTANCE OF MY UNCLE
第三章 结识我叔叔
CHAPTER IVI RUN A GREAT DANGER IN THE HOUSE OF SHAWS
第四章 萧家遭遇巨大危险
CHAPTER VI GO TO THE QUEEN’S FERRY
第六章 前往女王渡轮
CHAPTER VIWHAT BEFELL AT THE QUEEN’S FERRY
第六章 女王渡轮发生的事
CHAPTER VIII GO TO SEA IN THE BRIG ‘COVENANT’ OF DYSART
第八章 乘坐戴萨特号双桅帆船“盟约号”出海
CHAPTER VIIITHE ROUND-HOUSE
第八章 圆屋
CHAPTER IXTHE MAN WITH THE BELT OF GOLD
第九章 带着金腰带的人
CHAPTER XTHE SIEGE OF THE ROUND-HOUSE
第十五章 围攻圆屋
CHAPTER XITHE CAPTAIN KNUCKLES UNDER
第十一章 指节下的船长
CHAPTER XIII HEAR OF THE ‘RED FOX”
第十三章 听说‘红狐狸’
CHAPTER XIIITHE LOSS OF THE BRIG
第十三章双桅船的损失
CHAPTER XIVTHE ISLET
第十四章 小岛
CHAPTER XVTHE LAD WITH THE SILVER BUTTON: THROUGH THE ISLE OF MULL
第十五章 带银纽扣的小伙子：穿过马尔岛
CHAPTER XVITHE LAD WITH THE SILVER BUTTON: ACROSS MORVEN
第十六章 带银扣的小伙子：穿过莫文
CHAPTER XVIITHE DEATH OF THE RED FOX
第十七章 红狐狸之死
CHAPTER XVIIII TALK WITH ALAN IN THE WOOD OF LETTERMORE
第十八章 在莱特莫尔森林里与艾伦交谈
CHAPTER XIXTHE HOUSE OF FEAR
第十九章 恐惧之屋
CHAPTER XXTHE FLIGHT IN THE HEATHER: THE ROCKS
第二章 石南花丛中的飞行：岩石
CHAPTER XXITHE FLIGHT IN THE HEATHER: THE HEUGH OF CORRYNAKIEGH
第二章 石南花丛中的飞行：科里纳基的高处
CHAPTER XXIITHE FLIGHT IN THE HEATHER: THE MOOR
第二十二章 石南花丛中的飞行：荒野
CHAPTER XXIIICLUNY’S CAGE
第二十三章 克鲁尼的笼子
CHAPTER XXIVTHE FLIGHT IN THE HEATHER: THE QUARREL
第二十四章 石南花丛中的飞行：争吵
CHAPTER XXVIN BALQUHIDDER
第二十章 巴尔奎德
CHAPTER XXVIEND OF THE FLIGHT: WE PASS THE FORTH
第二十六章 飞行：我们经过了第四个
CHAPTER XXVIII COME TO MR. RANKEILLOR
第二十八章 来见先生。兰凯勒
CHAPTER XXVIIII GO IN QUEST OF MY INHERITANCE
第二十八章 追寻我的继承权
CHAPTER XXIXI COME INTO MY KINGDOM
第二十一章 进入我的王国
CHAPTER XXXGOOD-BYE
第三章再见

Kidnapped
被绑架

By Robert Louis Stevenson
罗伯特·路易斯·史蒂文森

KIDNAPPED
被绑架

BEING
存在

MEMOIRS OF THE ADVENTURES OF
冒险回忆录

DAVID BALFOUR
大卫·贝尔福

IN THE YEAR 1751
1751年

HOW HE WAS KIDNAPPED AND CAST AWAY; HIS SUFFERINGS IN
他是如何被绑架和抛弃的；他所受的苦难

A DESERT ISLE; HIS JOURNEY IN THE WILD HIGHLANDS;
沙漠小岛；他在荒野高地的旅程；

HIS ACQUAINTANCE WITH ALAN BRECK STEWART
他与艾伦·布雷克·斯图尔特的相识

AND OTHER NOTORIOUS HIGHLAND JACOBITES;
和其他臭名昭著的高原雅各布派；

WITH ALL THAT HE SUFFERED AT THE
与他在医院所遭受的一切

HANDS OF HIS UNCLE, EBENEZER
他叔叔埃比尼泽的手

BALFOUR OF SHAWS, FALSELY
萧伯纳四世，错误

SO CALLED
所谓的

WRITTEN BY HIMSELF AND NOW SET FORTH BY
由他本人撰写，现由

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON
罗伯特·路易斯·史蒂文森

WITH A PREFACE BY MRS. STEVENSON
夫人的序言。史蒂文森

PREFACE TO THE BIOGRAPHICAL EDITION
传记版序言

While my husband and Mr. Henley were engaged in writing plays in Bournemouth they made a number of titles, hoping to use them in the future. Dramatic composition was not what my husband preferred, but the torrent of Mr. Henley’s enthusiasm swept him off his feet. However, after several plays had been finished, and his health seriously impaired by his endeavours to keep up with Mr. Henley, play writing was abandoned forever, and my husband returned to his legitimate vocation. Having added one of the titles, The Hanging Judge, to the list of projected plays, now thrown aside, and emboldened by my husband’s offer to give me any help needed, I concluded to try and write it myself.
当我的丈夫和亨利先生在伯恩茅斯从事戏剧创作时，他们创作了许多作品，希望将来能使用它们。戏剧性的创作并不是我丈夫所喜欢的，但亨利先生的热情激流却让他神魂颠倒。然而，几部戏剧完成后，他的健康因努力跟上亨利先生的步伐而受到严重损害，戏剧创作被永远放弃了，我丈夫又回到了他的合法职业。在将其中一部《绞刑法官》添加到预计戏剧清单中（现在已被扔到一边）后，我丈夫主动提出为我提供所需的任何帮助，这让我更加大胆，我决定尝试自己写它。

As I wanted a trial scene in the Old Bailey, I chose the period of 1700 for my purpose; but being shamefully ignorant of my subject, and my husband confessing to little more knowledge than I possessed, a London bookseller was commissioned to send us everything he could procure bearing on Old Bailey trials. A great package came in response to our order, and very soon we were both absorbed, not so much in the trials as in following the brilliant career of a Mr. Garrow, who appeared as counsel in many of the cases. We sent for more books, and yet more, still intent on Mr. Garrow, whose subtle cross-examination of witnesses and masterly, if sometimes startling, methods of arriving at the truth seemed more thrilling to us than any novel.
因为我想要在老贝利（Old Bailey）有一个审判场景，所以我选择了1700年的时间段；但可耻的是，他对我的主题一无所知，而我的丈夫也承认他的知识并不比我多，于是伦敦的一位书商被委托向我们发送他能获得的与老贝利审判有关的一切资料。根据我们的订单，收到了一份很棒的包裹，很快我们俩都全神贯注，与其说是在审判，不如说是在追随加罗先生的辉煌职业生涯，他在许多案件中担任律师。我们送来了更多的书，而且更多的书仍然专注于加罗先生，他对证人的微妙盘问和掌握真相的巧妙方法，尽管有时令人震惊，对我们来说似乎比任何小说都更令人兴奋。

Occasionally other trials than those of the Old Bailey would be included in the package of books we received from London; among these my husband found and read with avidity:—
有时，我们从伦敦收到的书包中会包含除老贝利之外的其他试验；我丈夫在其中找到并热切地阅读：

THE
这

TRIAL
审判

OF
JAMES STEWART
詹姆斯·斯图尔特

in Aucharn in Duror of Appin
在奥尚 在阿平杜罗尔

FOR THE
为了

Murder of COLIN CAMPBELL of Glenure, Efq;
格伦努尔 (Efq) 的科林·坎贝尔 (COLIN CAMPBELL) 谋杀案；

Factor for His Majefty on the forfeited
陛下没收的因素

Estate of Ardfhiel.
阿德菲尔庄园。

My husband was always interested in this period of his country’s history, and had already the intention of writing a story that should turn on the Appin murder. The tale was to be of a boy, David Balfour, supposed to belong to my husband’s own family, who should travel in Scotland as though it were a foreign country, meeting with various adventures and misadventures by the way. From the trial of James Stewart my husband gleaned much valuable material for his novel, the most important being the character of Alan Breck. Aside from having described him as ‘smallish in stature,’ my husband seems to have taken Alan Breck’s personal appearance, even to his clothing, from the book.
我丈夫一直对他国家的这段历史很感兴趣，并且已经打算写一个以阿平谋杀案为线索的故事。这个故事是关于一个名叫大卫·贝尔福的男孩，他应该属于我丈夫的家人，他应该像在外国一样在苏格兰旅行，顺便遇到各种冒险和不幸。从詹姆斯·斯图尔特的审判中，我丈夫为他的小说收集了许多有价值的素材，其中最重要的是艾伦·布雷克这个角色。除了描述他“身材矮小”之外，我的丈夫似乎还从书中借鉴了艾伦·布雷克的个人外表，甚至是他的服装。

A letter from James Stewart to Mr. John Macfarlane, introduced as evidence in the trial, says: ‘There is one Alan Stewart, a distant friend of the late Ardshiel’s, who is in the French service, and came over in March last, as he said to some, in order to settle at home; to others, that he was to go soon back; and was, as I hear, the day that the murder was committed, seen not far from the place where it happened, and is not now to be seen; by which it is believed he was the actor. He is a desperate foolish fellow; and if he is guilty, came to the country for that very purpose. He is a tall, pock-pitted lad, very black hair, and wore a blue coat and metal buttons, an old red vest, and breeches of the same colour.’ A second witness testified to having seen him wearing ‘a blue coat with silver buttons, a red waistcoat, black shag breeches, tartan hose, and a feathered hat, with a big coat, dun coloured,’ a costume referred to by one of the counsel as ‘French cloathes which were remarkable.’
詹姆斯·斯图尔特 (James Stewart) 写给约翰·麦克法兰 (John Macfarlane) 先生的一封信在审判中作为证据提出，其中写道：“有一位艾伦·斯图尔特 (Alan Stewart)，已故阿德希尔 (Ardshiel) 的远方朋友，在法国服役，去年 3 月过来，作为他对一些人说，为了在家里安顿下来；对其他人来说，他很快就要回去了；据我所知，谋杀发生的那天，人们在离案发地点不远的地方看到了他，但现在已经看不到了。据信他是演员。他是一个绝望的傻瓜；如果他有罪，他就是为了这个目的来到这个国家的。他是一个身材高大、满脸麻子的小伙子，头发很黑，穿着一件蓝色外套和金属纽扣，还有一件旧红色背心和同样颜色的马裤。银色纽扣、红色背心、黑色粗毛马裤、格子呢长筒袜和一顶羽毛帽，搭配一件深褐色的大衣，”其中一位律师将这套服装称为“非凡的法国服装”。

There are many incidents given in the trial that point to Alan’s fiery spirit and Highland quickness to take offence. One witness ‘declared also That the said Alan Breck threatened that he would challenge Ballieveolan and his sons to fight because of his removing the declarant last year from Glenduror.’ On another page: ‘Duncan Campbell, change-keeper at Annat, aged thirty-five years, married, witness cited, sworn, purged and examined ut supra, depones, That, in the month of April last, the deponent met with Alan Breck Stewart, with whom he was not acquainted, and John Stewart, in Auchnacoan, in the house of the walk miller of Auchofragan, and went on with them to the house: Alan Breck Stewart said, that he hated all the name of Campbell; and the deponent said, he had no reason for doing so: But Alan said, he had very good reason for it: that thereafter they left that house; and, after drinking a dram at another house, came to the deponent’s house, where they went in, and drunk some drams, and Alan Breck renewed the former Conversation; and the deponent, making the same answer, Alan said, that, if the deponent had any respect for his friends, he would tell them, that if they offered to turn out the possessors of Ardshiel’s estate, he would make black cocks of them, before they entered into possession by which the deponent understood shooting them, it being a common phrase in the country.’
审判中的许多事件都表明艾伦的火热精神和高地的快速愤怒。一名目击者“还宣称，上述艾伦·布雷克威胁要挑战巴利维兰和他的儿子们，因为他去年将声明人从格伦杜罗撤走。”在另一页上：“邓肯·坎贝尔，安纳特的变更管理员，三十岁——五年，已婚，证人被引用，宣誓，清洗和审查，如上所述，证词，在去年四月，证词会见了艾伦·布雷克·斯图尔特，他与他不认识，还有约翰·斯图尔特，在奥赫纳科恩，在艾伦·布雷克·斯图尔特说，他讨厌坎贝尔的所有名字；证人说，他没有理由这样做。但艾伦说，他有很好的理由：此后他们离开了那所房子；在另一家喝了一杯酒后，来到证人家，他们进去喝了一些酒，艾伦·布雷克又重新开始了之前的谈话；证人也做出了同样的回答，艾伦说，如果证人对他的朋友有任何尊重，他会告诉他们，如果他们主动提出驱逐阿德希尔庄园的拥有者，他会把他们变成黑公鸡，在他们进入控球之前，证人理解射击他们，这是该国的一个常见短语。

Some time after the publication of Kidnapped we stopped for a short while in the Appin country, where we were surprised and interested to discover that the feeling concerning the murder of Glenure (the ‘Red Fox,’ also called ‘Colin Roy’) was almost as keen as though the tragedy had taken place the day before. For several years my husband received letters of expostulation or commendation from members of the Campbell and Stewart clans. I have in my possession a paper, yellow with age, that was sent soon after the novel appeared, containing ‘The Pedigree of the Family of Appine,’ wherein it is said that ‘Alan 3rd Baron of Appine was not killed at Flowdoun, tho there, but lived to a great old age. He married Cameron Daughter to Ewen Cameron of Lochiel.’ Following this is a paragraph stating that ‘John Stewart 1st of Ardsheall of his descendants Alan Breck had better be omitted. Duncan Baan Stewart in Achindarroch his father was a Bastard.’
《绑架》出版后一段时间，我们在阿平国家短暂停留，我们惊讶而有趣地发现，格伦努尔（“红狐狸”，也称为“科林·罗伊”）被谋杀的感觉几乎与就好像悲剧发生在前一天一样。几年来，我丈夫不断收到坎贝尔家族和斯图尔特家族成员的劝告或表扬信。我手里有一份纸，因年代久远而泛黄，是在小说出版后不久寄出的，里面有《阿平家族的谱系》，其中据说“阿平三世艾伦男爵并没有在弗洛登被杀，但在那里，但活到了很高的年纪。他将卡梅伦的女儿嫁给了洛希尔的艾文·卡梅伦。”接下来是一段文字，指出“阿德谢尔的约翰·斯图尔特一世，他的后裔艾伦·布雷克最好省略。”邓肯·班·斯图尔特在《Achindarroch》中他的父亲是个私生子。

One day, while my husband was busily at work, I sat beside him reading an old cookery book called The Compleat Housewife: or Accomplish’d Gentlewoman’s Companion. In the midst of receipts for ‘Rabbits, and Chickens mumbled, Pickled Samphire, Skirret Pye, Baked Tansy,’ and other forgotten delicacies, there were directions for the preparation of several lotions for the preservation of beauty. One of these was so charming that I interrupted my husband to read it aloud. ‘Just what I wanted!’ he exclaimed; and the receipt for the ‘Lily of the Valley Water’ was instantly incorporated into Kidnapped.
有一天，当我丈夫忙着工作时，我坐在他旁边读一本古老的烹饪书，名叫《完美的主妇：或成就的绅士的伴侣》。在“兔子和小鸡咕哝着、腌制的海蓬子、裙边派伊、烤艾菊”和其他被遗忘的美食的收据中，有一些关于如何制备几种保持美丽的乳液的说明。其中一篇非常迷人，我打断了丈夫大声朗读。 “这正是我想要的！”他惊呼道。而‘铃兰水’的收据也立刻被纳入了绑架之中。

F. V. DE G. S.
F.V.DE G.S.

DEDICATION
奉献精神

MY DEAR CHARLES BAXTER:
我亲爱的查尔斯·巴克斯特：

If you ever read this tale, you will likely ask yourself more questions than I should care to answer: as for instance how the Appin murder has come to fall in the year 1751, how the Torran rocks have crept so near to Earraid, or why the printed trial is silent as to all that touches David Balfour. These are nuts beyond my ability to crack. But if you tried me on the point of Alan’s guilt or innocence, I think I could defend the reading of the text. To this day you will find the tradition of Appin clear in Alan’s favour. If you inquire, you may even hear that the descendants of ‘the other man’ who fired the shot are in the country to this day. But that other man’s name, inquire as you please, you shall not hear; for the Highlander values a secret for itself and for the congenial exercise of keeping it I might go on for long to justify one point and own another indefensible; it is more honest to confess at once how little I am touched by the desire of accuracy. This is no furniture for the scholar’s library, but a book for the winter evening school-room when the tasks are over and the hour for bed draws near; and honest Alan, who was a grim old fire-eater in his day has in this new avatar no more desperate purpose than to steal some young gentleman’s attention from his Ovid, carry him awhile into the Highlands and the last century, and pack him to bed with some engaging images to mingle with his dreams.
如果你读过这个故事，你可能会问自己更多我不想回答的问题：例如，阿平谋杀案是如何在 1751 年发生的，托兰岩石如何爬到如此靠近厄尔瑞德的地方，或者为什么印刷版的审判对于涉及大卫·贝尔福的所有事情都保持沉默。这些都是我无法破解的坚果。但如果你在艾伦有罪或无罪的问题上审判我，我想我可以为文本的阅读辩护。直到今天，您都会发现阿平的传统明显对艾伦有利。如果你询问，你甚至可能听说开枪的“另一个人”的后裔至今仍在该国。但那个人的名字，你想问就问，你也听不到；因为高地人珍视自己的秘密，并且为了保守秘密而进行的适当的练习，我可能会花很长时间来证明一个观点是正确的，而认为另一个观点是站不住脚的。更诚实的是，我必须立即承认，我对准确性的渴望是多么的微乎其微。这不是学者图书馆的家具，而是冬季晚间作业结束、睡觉时间临近时的书。诚实的艾伦，在他那个时代是一个冷酷的老食火者，在这个新的化身中，没有比从他的奥维德那里吸引一些年轻绅士的注意力，把他带到高地和上个世纪，然后把他打包到床上放一些引人入胜的图像，与他的梦想融为一体。

As for you, my dear Charles, I do not even ask you to like this tale. But perhaps when he is older, your son will; he may then be pleased to find his father’s name on the fly-leaf; and in the meanwhile it pleases me to set it there, in memory of many days that were happy and some (now perhaps as pleasant to remember) that were sad. If it is strange for me to look back from a distance both in time and space on these bygone adventures of our youth, it must be stranger for you who tread the same streets—who may to-morrow open the door of the old Speculative, where we begin to rank with Scott and Robert Emmet and the beloved and inglorious Macbean—or may pass the corner of the close where that great society, the L. J. R., held its meetings and drank its beer, sitting in the seats of Burns and his companions. I think I see you, moving there by plain daylight, beholding with your natural eyes those places that have now become for your companion a part of the scenery of dreams. How, in the intervals of present business, the past must echo in your memory! Let it not echo often without some kind thoughts of your friend,
至于你，我亲爱的查尔斯，我什至不要求你喜欢这个故事。但也许当你的儿子长大后，他就会这么做；然后他可能会很高兴在扉页上找到他父亲的名字；与此同时，我很高兴把它放在那里，纪念许多快乐的日子和一些悲伤的日子（现在也许还记得起来很愉快）。如果我在时间和空间上从远处回顾我们年轻时的这些过去的冒险经历是很奇怪的，那么对于走在同一条街上的你们来说一定会更奇怪——明天可能会打开旧思辨的大门，在那里我们开始与斯科特和罗伯特·埃米特以及受人爱戴但不光彩的麦克比恩并列——或者可能会经过最后的角落，那个伟大的社团，L.J.R.，坐在伯恩斯和他的同伴的座位上举行会议并喝着啤酒。 。我想我看到了你，在光天化日之下移动到那里，用你自然的眼睛看着那些现在已经成为你的同伴梦想风景的一部分的地方。在当前事务的间歇，过去一定会在你的记忆中回响！让它在没有你朋友善意的情况下不要经常回响，

R.L.S. SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH.
R.L.S.斯克里沃尔，伯恩茅斯。

CHAPTER I
第一章


I SET OFF UPON MY JOURNEY TO THE HOUSE OF SHAWS
我踏上了萧家之旅

I will begin the story of my adventures with a certain morning early in the month of June, the year of grace 1751, when I took the key for the last time out of the door of my father’s house. The sun began to shine upon the summit of the hills as I went down the road; and by the time I had come as far as the manse, the blackbirds were whistling in the garden lilacs, and the mist that hung around the valley in the time of the dawn was beginning to arise and die away.
我的冒险故事将从 1751 年 6 月的某个早晨开始，那是 1751 年的恩典年，当时我最后一次拿着钥匙走出了父亲家的门。当我沿着路走时，阳光开始照射在山顶上。当我走到宅邸的时候，黑鸟在紫丁香花园里鸣叫，黎明时分笼罩在山谷周围的薄雾开始升起又消散。

Mr. Campbell, the minister of Essendean, was waiting for me by the garden gate, good man! He asked me if I had breakfasted; and hearing that I lacked for nothing, he took my hand in both of his and clapped it kindly under his arm.
埃森丁部长坎贝尔先生正在花园门口等我，好人！他问我吃早餐了吗？听说我一无所缺，他用双手握住我的手，亲切地把它放在腋下。

‘Well, Davie, lad,’ said he, ‘I will go with you as far as the ford, to set you on the way.’ And we began to walk forward in silence.
“好吧，戴维，小伙子，”他说，“我会陪你一直走到浅滩，带你上路。”然后我们开始默默地向前走。

‘Are ye sorry to leave Essendean?’ said he, after awhile.
“离开埃森丁，你感到遗憾吗？”过了一会儿，他说道。

‘Why, sir,’ said I, ‘if I knew where I was going, or what was likely to become of me, I would tell you candidly. Essendean is a good place indeed, and I have been very happy there; but then I have never been anywhere else. My father and mother, since they are both dead, I shall be no nearer to in Essendean than in the Kingdom of Hungary, and, to speak truth, if I thought I had a chance to better myself where I was going I would go with a good will.’
“为什么，先生，”我说，“如果我知道我要去哪里，或者我可能会发生什么，我会坦白地告诉你。埃森丁确实是个好地方，我在那里过得很开心。但我从来没有去过其他地方。我的父亲和母亲，既然他们都去世了，我在埃森丁的日子不会比在匈牙利王国更近，而且，说实话，如果我认为我有机会在我要去的地方改善自己，我会和良好的意愿。

‘Ay?’ said Mr. Campbell. ‘Very well, Davie. Then it behoves me to tell your fortune; or so far as I may. When your mother was gone, and your father (the worthy, Christian man) began to sicken for his end, he gave me in charge a certain letter, which he said was your inheritance. ‘So soon,’ says he, ‘as I am gone, and the house is redd up and the gear disposed of’ (all which, Davie, hath been done), ‘give my boy this letter into his hand, and start him off to the house of Shaws, not far from Cramond. That is the place I came from,’ he said, ‘and it’s where it befits that my boy should return. He is a steady lad,’ your father said, ‘and a canny goer; and I doubt not he will come safe, and be well lived where he goes.’’
“嗯？”坎贝尔先生说。 “很好，戴维。那么我就该给你算命了；或据我所知。当你的母亲去世后，你的父亲（值得尊敬的基督徒）开始病倒，他给了我一封信，他说这是你的遗产。 “很快，”他说，“当我走了，房子被染成红色，装备也被处理掉时”（戴维，所有这些都已经完成了），“把这封信交给我的孩子，让他开始吧。”前往离克拉蒙德不远的肖斯之家。那是我来自的地方，”他说，“我的儿子也应该回到那里。 “他是个稳重的小伙子，”你父亲说，“而且是个精明的人。我毫不怀疑他会安全地回来，并且在他去的地方过上幸福的生活。”

‘The house of Shaws!’ I cried. ‘What had my poor father to do with the house of Shaws?’
“萧氏之家！”我喊道。 “我可怜的父亲和萧氏家族有什么关系？”

‘Nay,’ said Mr. Campbell, ‘who can tell that for a surety? But the name of that family, Davie, boy, is the name you bear — Balfours of Shaws: an ancient, honest, reputable house, peradventure in these latter days decayed. Your father, too, was a man of learning as befitted his position; no man more plausibly conducted school; nor had he the manner or the speech of a common dominie; but (as ye will yourself remember) I took aye a pleasure to have him to the manse to meet the gentry; and those of my own house, Campbell of Kilrennet, Campbell of Dunswire, Campbell of Minch, and others, all well-kenned gentlemen, had pleasure in his society. Lastly, to put all the elements of this affair before you, here is the testamentary letter itself, superscrived by the own hand of our departed brother.’
“不，”坎贝尔先生说，“谁能保证这一点呢？但那个家族的名字，戴维，孩子，就是你的名字——肖氏的巴尔福斯：一座古老、诚实、有信誉的房子，也许在近代已经腐朽了。你的父亲也是一位学识渊博的人，这与他的地位相称。没有人比他更合理地管理学校；他的举止和言谈也不像一个普通的统治者。但是（正如你们自己记得的那样）我很高兴邀请他到宅邸会见绅士们。我自己家族的那些人，基尔伦内特的坎贝尔、邓斯怀尔的坎贝尔、明奇的坎贝尔以及其他人，都是彬彬有礼的绅士，很高兴与他交往。最后，为了将这件事的所有要素摆在您面前，这是遗嘱本身，由我们已故兄弟亲笔签署。

He gave me the letter, which was addressed in these words: ‘To the hands of Ebenezer Balfour, Esquire, of Shaws, in his house of Shaws, these will be delivered by my son, David Balfour.’ My heart was beating hard at this great prospect now suddenly opening before a lad of seventeen years of age, the son of a poor country dominie in the Forest of Ettrick.
他给了我这封信，信上写着这样的话：“这些将由我的儿子大卫·贝尔福在他的邵氏家族中转交到邵氏的埃比尼泽·贝尔福先生手中。”我的心剧烈地跳动着。现在，这个伟大的前景突然展现在一个十七岁的小伙子面前，他是埃特里克森林里一个贫穷乡村多米尼人的儿子。

‘Mr. Campbell,’ I stammered, ‘and if you were in my shoes, would you go?’
'先生。坎贝尔，”我结结巴巴地说，“如果你处于我的处境，你会去吗？”

‘Of a surety,’ said the minister, ‘that would I, and without pause. A pretty lad like you should get to Cramond (which is near in by Edinburgh) in two days of walk. If the worst came to the worst, and your high relations (as I cannot but suppose them to be somewhat of your blood) should put you to the door, ye can but walk the two days back again and risp at the manse door. But I would rather hope that ye shall be well received, as your poor father forecast for you, and for anything that I ken come to be a great man in time. And here, Davie, laddie,’ he resumed, ‘it lies near upon my conscience to improve this parting, and set you on the right guard against the dangers of the world.’
“当然，”部长说，“我会的，而且不会停顿。”像你这样漂亮的小伙子应该步行两天就可以到达克拉蒙德（靠近爱丁堡）。如果最坏的情况发生了，而你的高级亲戚（因为我不得不假设他们在某种程度上是你的血统）应该把你赶到门口，那么你只能再走两天，然后在宅邸的门前撕开。但我宁愿希望你们会受到很好的接待，就像你们可怜的父亲对你们的预测一样，以及我认为及时成为伟人的一切。在这里，戴维，小伙子，”他继续说道，“我的良心有责任改善这次离别，让你正确防范世界上的危险。”

Here he cast about for a comfortable seat, lighted on a big boulder under a birch by the trackside, sate down upon it with a very long, serious upper lip, and the sun now shining in upon us between two peaks, put his pocket-handkerchief over his cocked hat to shelter him. There, then, with uplifted forefinger, he first put me on my guard against a considerable number of heresies, to which I had no temptation, and urged upon me to be instant in my prayers and reading of the Bible. That done, he drew a picture of the great house that I was bound to, and how I should conduct myself with its inhabitants.
他在这里寻找一个舒适的座位，在路边白桦树下的一块大石头上点燃，上唇又长又严肃地坐在上面，太阳现在在两座山峰之间照耀着我们，把他的口袋放进去——手帕盖在三角帽上为他遮风挡雨。然后，他举起食指，首先让我提防相当多的异端邪说，我没有受到这些异端的诱惑，并敦促我立即祈祷和阅读圣经。完成后，他画了一张我注定要住的大房子的图画，以及我应该如何与里面的居民相处的图画。

‘Be soople, Davie, in things immaterial,’ said he. ‘Bear ye this in mind, that, though gentle born, ye have had a country rearing. Dinnae shame us, Davie, dinnae shame us! In yon great, muckle house, with all these domestics, upper and under, show yourself as nice, as circumspect, as quick at the conception, and as slow of speech as any. As for the laird — remember he’s the laird; I say no more: honour to whom honour. It’s a pleasure to obey a laird; or should be, to the young.’
“戴维，在无关紧要的事情上要快点，”他说。 “你们要记住这一点，虽然你们出身文雅，却是在乡村长大的。迪奈羞辱我们，戴维，迪奈羞辱我们！在那个伟大的、肮脏的房子里，有这么多家仆，上层下层，你要表现得和任何人一样友善、谨慎、构思敏捷、说话缓慢。至于领主——记住他是领主；我不再多说了：荣誉归谁。服从领主是一种快乐；或者应该是，对年轻人来说。

‘Well, sir,’ said I, ‘it may be; and I’ll promise you I’ll try to make it so.’
“好吧，先生，”我说，“也许是这样；我向你保证我会尽力做到这一点。

‘Why, very well said,’ replied Mr. Campbell, heartily. ‘And now to come to the material, or (to make a quibble) to the immaterial. I have here a little packet which contains four things.’ He tugged it, as he spoke, and with some great difficulty, from the skirt pocket of his coat. ‘Of these four things, the first is your legal due: the little pickle money for your father’s books and plenishing, which I have bought (as I have explained from the first) in the design of re-selling at a profit to the incoming dominie. The other three are gifties that Mrs. Campbell and myself would be blithe of your acceptance. The first, which is round, will likely please ye best at the first off-go; but, O Davie, laddie, it’s but a drop of water in the sea; it’ll help you but a step, and vanish like the morning. The second, which is flat and square and written upon, will stand by you through life, like a good staff for the road, and a good pillow to your head in sickness. And as for the last, which is cubical, that’ll see you, it’s my prayerful wish, into a better land.’
“哎呀，说得很好，”坎贝尔先生由衷地回答道。 “现在来谈谈物质，或者（狡辩）非物质。我这里有一个小包，里面有四样东西。”他边说边费了很大劲才把它从外套的裙边口袋里拉出来。 “在这四件事中，第一件事是你的合法应得的：你父亲的书籍和补充的小泡菜钱，我买了这些钱（正如我从第一件事中解释的那样），目的是为了将利润转售给即将到来的人。”牧师。另外三件是坎贝尔夫人和我本人的礼物，如果您接受的话，我会很高兴的。第一个是圆形的，可能会在第一次起飞时让您最满意；但是，戴维啊，小伙子，这只是大海中的一滴水；它只会帮助你一步，然后像早晨一样消失。第二个是平的、方形的，上面写着字，它将陪伴你一生，就像路上的一根好拐杖，以及生病时枕在你头上的一个好枕头。至于最后一个，它是立方体的，它会看到你，这是我虔诚的愿望，进入一个更好的土地。

With that he got upon his feet, took off his hat, and prayed a little while aloud, and in affecting terms, for a young man setting out into the world; then suddenly took me in his arms and embraced me very hard; then held me at arm’s length, looking at me with his face all working with sorrow; and then whipped about, and crying good-bye to me, set off backward by the way that we had come at a sort of jogging run. It might have been laughable to another; but I was in no mind to laugh. I watched him as long as he was in sight; and he never stopped hurrying, nor once looked back. Then it came in upon my mind that this was all his sorrow at my departure; and my conscience smote me hard and fast, because I, for my part, was overjoyed to get away out of that quiet country-side, and go to a great, busy house, among rich and respected gentlefolk of my own name and blood.
说完，他站了起来，摘下帽子，用感人的语言大声祈祷了一会儿，希望有一个年轻人能够踏上这个世界。然后突然把我抱在怀里，用力地拥抱着我。然后他与我保持一定的距离，一脸悲伤地看着我。然后猛地转身，哭着向我告别，沿着我们慢跑来时的路往回走。对于另一个人来说，这可能会很可笑；但我没心思笑。只要他在我的视野里，我就注视着他。他从未停止过脚步，也没有一次回头。然后我突然想到，这就是他对我离开时的悲伤。我的良心狠狠地打击了我，因为就我而言，我非常高兴能够离开那个安静的乡村，来到一所繁忙的大房子里，周围都是富有的、受人尊敬的与我同姓和血统的绅士。

‘Davie, Davie,’ I thought, ‘was ever seen such black ingratitude? Can you forget old favours and old friends at the mere whistle of a name? Fie, fie; think shame.’
“戴维，戴维，”我想，“见过如此忘恩负义的黑人吗？”难道只听一个名字就能忘记旧恩、旧友吗？呸，呸；想想羞耻。

And I sat down on the boulder the good man had just left, and opened the parcel to see the nature of my gifts. That which he had called cubical, I had never had much doubt of; sure enough it was a little Bible, to carry in a plaid-neuk. That which he had called round, I found to be a shilling piece; and the third, which was to help me so wonderfully both in health and sickness all the days of my life, was a little piece of coarse yellow paper, written upon thus in red ink:
我坐在好人刚刚离开的巨石上，打开包裹，看看我的礼物的本质。我从来没有对他所说的立方体有太多怀疑。果然是一本小圣经，可以放在格子呢衬衫里。我发现他叫来的东西是一先令。第三张纸是一张粗糙的黄纸，上面用红墨水写着：

‘TO MAKE LILLY OF THE VALLEY WATER.—Take the flowers of lilly of the valley and distil them in sack, and drink a spooneful or two as there is occasion. It restores speech to those that have the dumb palsey. It is good against the Gout; it comforts the heart and strengthens the memory; and the flowers, put into a Glasse, close stopt, and set into ane hill of ants for a month, then take it out, and you will find a liquor which comes from the flowers, which keep in a vial; it is good, ill or well, and whether man or woman.’
‘制作铃兰水。——取铃兰花，将其蒸馏在麻袋中，必要时喝一两勺。它可以使那些患有哑巴麻痹的人恢复言语。对痛风有好处；它抚慰心灵，增强记忆力；把花放进玻璃杯里，塞满，放在蚂蚁山里一个月，然后把它拿出来，你会发现一种来自花的酒，保存在一个小瓶里；它是好的、坏的还是好的，无论是男人还是女人。

And then, in the minister’s own hand, was added:
然后，部长亲笔补充道：

‘Likewise for sprains, rub it in; and for the cholic, a great spooneful in the hour.’
“同样，对于扭伤，将其揉搓；对于胆怯的人来说，每小时一大勺。

To be sure, I laughed over this; but it was rather tremulous laughter; and I was glad to get my bundle on my staff’s end and set out over the ford and up the hill upon the farther side; till, just as I came on the green drove-road running wide through the heather, I took my last look of Kirk Essendean, the trees about the manse, and the big rowans in the kirkyard where my father and my mother lay.
确实，我对此一笑置之。但这是一种相当颤抖的笑声。我很高兴把我的包袱挂在手杖的一端，然后出发越过浅滩，爬上另一边的小山。直到，当我来到穿过石南花的绿色车道时，我最后看了一眼柯克·埃森丁、宅邸周围的树木，以及我父亲和母亲躺着的柯克院子里的大花楸。

CHAPTER II
第二章


I COME TO MY JOURNEY’S END
我的旅程即将结束

On the forenoon of the second day, coming to the top of a hill, I saw all the country fall away before me down to the sea; and in the midst of this descent, on a long ridge, the city of Edinburgh smoking like a kiln. There was a flag upon the castle, and ships moving or lying anchored in the firth; both of which, for as far away as they were, I could distinguish clearly; and both brought my country heart into my mouth.
第二天上午，我来到山顶，看到整个乡村在我面前消失到了大海。在这下降的中间，在一条长长的山脊上，爱丁堡市像一座窑炉一样冒着烟。城堡上悬挂着一面旗帜，船只在海湾中移动或停泊。尽管距离很远，我还是能清楚地区分出来。两者都把我的乡村之心带到了我的嘴里。

Presently after, I came by a house where a shepherd lived, and got a rough direction for the neighbourhood of Cramond; and so, from one to another, worked my way to the westward of the capital by Colinton, till I came out upon the Glasgow road. And there, to my great pleasure and wonder, I beheld a regiment marching to the fifes, every foot in time; an old red-faced general on a grey horse at the one end, and at the other the company of Grenadiers, with their Pope’s-hats. The pride of life seemed to mount into my brain at the sight of the red coats and the hearing of that merry music.
不久之后，我来到了一座牧羊人居住的房子前，大致了解了克拉蒙德附近的方向。就这样，我从一个地方到另一个地方，沿着科林顿向首都西部行进，直到走上格拉斯哥公路。在那里，令我非常高兴和惊奇的是，我看到一支军团正在向法夫行进，每一步都准时。一端是一位骑着灰马的红脸老将军，另一端是戴着教皇帽子的掷弹兵连。看到那件红大衣，听到那欢快的音乐，生命的骄傲似乎涌入我的脑海。

A little farther on, and I was told I was in Cramond parish, and began to substitute in my inquiries the name of the house of Shaws. It was a word that seemed to surprise those of whom I sought my way. At first I thought the plainness of my appearance, in my country habit, and that all dusty from the road, consorted ill with the greatness of the place to which I was bound. But after two, or maybe three, had given me the same look and the same answer, I began to take it in my head there was something strange about the Shaws itself.
再往前走一点，有人告诉我我在克拉蒙德教区，于是我开始在询问中用肖斯家族的名字代替。这个词似乎让那些我寻求帮助的人感到惊讶。起初，我以为我的外表朴素，符合我的乡下习惯，加上路上满是灰尘，与我要去的地方的伟大相配。但在两个，或者也许三个，给了我同样的眼神和同样的答案之后，我开始在脑海中意识到邵氏本身有些奇怪的地方。

The better to set this fear at rest, I changed the form of my inquiries; and spying an honest fellow coming along a lane on the shaft of his cart, I asked him if he had ever heard tell of a house they called the house of Shaws.
为了更好地消除这种恐惧，我改变了询问的形式。当我看到一个诚实的家伙推着车轴沿着一条小巷走来时，我问他是否听说过一栋他们称之为肖斯之家的房子。

He stopped his cart and looked at me, like the others.
他停下车，像其他人一样看着我。

‘Ay’ said he. ‘What for?’
“是”他说。 '做什么的？'

‘It’s a great house?’ I asked.
“这是一栋很棒的房子吗？”我问。

‘Doubtless,’ says he. ‘The house is a big, muckle house.’
“毫无疑问，”他说。 “这房子又大又脏。”

‘Ay,’ said I, ‘but the folk that are in it?’
“是啊，”我说，“但是里面的人呢？”

‘Folk?’ cried he. ‘Are ye daft? There’s nae folk there — to call folk.’
“民间？”他喊道。 ‘你们是傻子吗？那里有“nae people”——可以称之为“folk”。

‘What?’ say I; ‘not Mr. Ebenezer?’
“什么？”我说； “不是埃比尼泽先生吗？”

‘Ou, ay’ says the man; ‘there’s the laird, to be sure, if it’s him you’re wanting. What’ll like be your business, mannie?’
“哦，是”那人说； “当然，领主就在那里，如果你想要的是他的话。”你会做什么，曼尼？

‘I was led to think that I would get a situation,’ I said, looking as modest as I could.
“我被引导认为我会遇到一个情况，”我说，看起来尽可能谦虚。

‘What?’ cries the carter, in so sharp a note that his very horse started; and then, ‘Well, mannie,’ he added, ‘it’s nane of my affairs; but ye seem a decent-spoken lad; and if ye’ll take a word from me, ye’ll keep clear of the Shaws.’
“什么？”车夫大声叫道，声音如此尖锐，连他的马都吓了一跳。然后，“好吧，曼尼，”他补充道，“这不关我的事；”但你看上去是个说话得体的小伙子；如果你们接受我的话，你们就会远离肖氏家族。

The next person I came across was a dapper little man in a beautiful white wig, whom I saw to be a barber on his rounds; and knowing well that barbers were great gossips, I asked him plainly what sort of a man was Mr. Balfour of the Shaws.
我遇到的下一个人是一个衣冠楚楚的小个子男人，戴着漂亮的白色假发，我看到他是一名理发师。我深知理发师很爱八卦，所以我直截了当地问他，萧氏家族的贝尔福先生是个什么样的人。

‘Hoot, hoot, hoot,’ said the barber, ‘nae kind of a man, nae kind of a man at all;’ and began to ask me very shrewdly what my business was; but I was more than a match for him at that, and he went on to his next customer no wiser than he came.
“呼，呼，呼，”理发师说，“这不是一个男人，根本不是一个男人。”然后开始非常精明地问我我在做什么；但在这一点上，我根本不是他的对手，他继续去找下一位顾客，并不比来时更聪明。

I cannot well describe the blow this dealt to my illusions. The more indistinct the accusations were, the less I liked them, for they left the wider field to fancy. What kind of a great house was this, that all the parish should start and stare to be asked the way to it? or what sort of a gentleman, that his ill-fame should be thus current on the wayside? If an hour’s walking would have brought me back to Essendean, had left my adventure then and there, and returned to Mr. Campbell’s. But when I had come so far a way already, mere shame would not suffer me to desist till I had put the matter to the touch of proof; I was bound, out of mere self-respect, to carry it through; and little as I liked the sound of what I heard, and slow as I began to travel, I still kept asking my way and still kept advancing.
我无法很好地描述这对我的幻想造成的打击。指控越模糊，我就越不喜欢它们，因为它们留给了更广阔的想象空间。这是一座什么样的大房子，所有教区的人都惊呆了，等着被问路？或者什么样的绅士，他的恶名会如此流行？如果一个小时的步行能带我回到埃森丁，离开我的冒险之旅，回到坎贝尔先生的家就好了。但当我已经走了这么远的路时，仅仅羞耻感就不足以让我停下来，直到我把这件事付诸实践。仅仅出于自尊，我有义务将其完成。尽管我不太喜欢听到的声音，而且我开始行进的速度很慢，但我仍然不断地问路，仍然继续前进。

It was drawing on to sundown when I met a stout, dark, sour-looking woman coming trudging down a hill; and she, when I had put my usual question, turned sharp about, accompanied me back to the summit she had just left, and pointed to a great bulk of building standing very bare upon a green in the bottom of the next valley. The country was pleasant round about, running in low hills, pleasantly watered and wooded, and the crops, to my eyes, wonderfully good; but the house itself appeared to be a kind of ruin; no road led up to it; no smoke arose from any of the chimneys; nor was there any semblance of a garden. My heart sank. ‘That!’ I cried.
日落时分，我遇到了一位身材矮胖、肤色黝黑、面色阴郁的女人，正艰难地从山上走下来。当我问完我通常的问题后，她猛地转身，陪我回到她刚刚离开的山顶，并指着下一个山谷底部的一片绿地上裸露的一大栋建筑。周围的乡村环境宜人，有低矮的山丘，水源充足，树木繁茂，在我看来，庄稼长得非常好。但房子本身似乎是一片废墟。没有路通向它；任何一个烟囱都没有冒烟；也没有任何花园的样子。我的心沉了下去。 “那个！”我喊道。

The woman’s face lit up with a malignant anger. ‘That is the house of Shaws!’ she cried. ‘Blood built it; blood stopped the building of it; blood shall bring it down. See here!’ she cried again — ‘I spit upon the ground, and crack my thumb at it! Black be its fall! If ye see the laird, tell him what ye hear; tell him this makes the twelve hunner and nineteen time that Jennet Clouston has called down the curse on him and his house, byre and stable, man, guest, and master, wife, miss, or bairn — black, black be their fall!’
女人的脸上浮现出恶毒的愤怒。 “那是肖氏的房子！”她喊道。 ‘血造就了它；血液阻止了它的建造；鲜血将把它打倒。看这里！”她又喊道——“我吐口水在地上，还用拇指敲响了它！黑色是它的秋天！如果你们看到领主，请告诉他你们所听到的；告诉他，这已经是珍妮特·克鲁斯顿十二次和十九次对他和他的房子、牛棚和马厩、男人、客人、主人、妻子、小姐或拜恩的诅咒了——黑色，黑色是他们的堕落！

And the woman, whose voice had risen to a kind of eldritch sing-song, turned with a skip, and was gone. I stood where she left me, with my hair on end. In those days folk still believed in witches and trembled at a curse; and this one, falling so pat, like a wayside omen, to arrest me ere I carried out my purpose, took the pith out of my legs.
那个女人的声音变成了一种可怕的歌声，她一转身就消失了。我站在她离开的地方，头发竖起来。那时，人们仍然相信巫婆，对咒语感到颤抖。而这个人，就像路边的预兆一样，在我实现我的目的之前逮捕了我，把我腿上的髓抽掉了。

I sat me down and stared at the house of Shaws. The more I looked, the pleasanter that country-side appeared; being all set with hawthorn bushes full of flowers; the fields dotted with sheep; a fine flight of rooks in the sky; and every sign of a kind soil and climate; and yet the barrack in the midst of it went sore against my fancy.
我坐下来，凝视着肖氏的房子。我越看，乡村就越令人愉快；山楂树开满了鲜花；田野里点缀着羊群；天空中一群白嘴鸦优美地飞翔；以及土壤和气候的一切迹象；然而，其中的营房却令我大吃一惊。

Country folk went by from the fields as I sat there on the side of the ditch, but I lacked the spirit to give them a good-e’en. At last the sun went down, and then, right up against the yellow sky, I saw a scroll of smoke go mounting, not much thicker, as it seemed to me, than the smoke of a candle; but still there it was, and meant a fire, and warmth, and cookery, and some living inhabitant that must have lit it; and this comforted my heart.
当我坐在沟边时，乡下人从田里走过，但我没有勇气向他们道别。最后，太阳落山了，然后，在黄色的天空的映衬下，我看到一卷烟雾升起，在我看来，它并不比蜡烛的烟雾浓多少；但在我看来，它并不比蜡烛的烟雾浓多少。但它仍然在那里，意味着火、温暖、烹饪，以及一定有活生生的居民来点燃它。这让我的心感到安慰。

So I set forward by a little faint track in the grass that led in my direction. It was very faint indeed to be the only way to a place of habitation; yet I saw no other. Presently it brought me to stone uprights, with an unroofed lodge beside them, and coats of arms upon the top. A main entrance it was plainly meant to be, but never finished; instead of gates of wrought iron, a pair of hurdles were tied across with a straw rope; and as there were no park walls, nor any sign of avenue, the track that I was following passed on the right hand of the pillars, and went wandering on toward the house.
于是我沿着草地上一条微弱的小路向前走，那条路通向我的方向。作为通往居住地的唯一道路，这条路确实非常微弱。但我没有看到其他的。不久，它把我带到了石柱前，旁边有一个没有屋顶的小屋，顶部有徽章。它显然是一个主要入口，但从未完工；没有锻铁门，而是用草绳绑着一对栏杆。由于没有公园围墙，也没有任何林荫大道的迹象，我所走的小路就从柱子的右侧穿过，一直朝房子走去。

The nearer I got to that, the drearier it appeared. It seemed like the one wing of a house that had never been finished. What should have been the inner end stood open on the upper floors, and showed against the sky with steps and stairs of uncompleted masonry. Many of the windows were unglazed, and bats flew in and out like doves out of a dove-cote.
越接近那个，它就显得越沉闷。它看起来像是一座从未完工的房子的一侧。原本应该是内端的地方在楼上敞开着，在天空的映衬下，露出了未完成的砖石砌成的台阶和楼梯。许多窗户都没有装玻璃，蝙蝠像鸽子从鸽舍里飞进飞出一样。

The night had begun to fall as I got close; and in three of the lower windows, which were very high up and narrow, and well barred, the changing light of a little fire began to glimmer. Was this the palace I had been coming to? Was it within these walls that I was to seek new friends and begin great fortunes? Why, in my father’s house on Essen-Waterside, the fire and the bright lights would show a mile away, and the door open to a beggar’s knock!
当我走近时，夜幕已经降临。较低的三扇窗户又高又窄，而且门闩严密，一盏小火开始闪烁着变化的光芒。这就是我要来的宫殿吗？我就是在这些围墙内寻找新朋友并开始发大财的吗？为什么，在我父亲位于埃森水滨的房子里，火光和明亮的灯光会显示出一英里之外，而门会在乞丐的敲门声中打开！

I came forward cautiously, and giving ear as I came, heard some one rattling with dishes, and a little dry, eager cough that came in fits; but there was no sound of speech, and not a dog barked.
我小心翼翼地走上前去，边走边侧耳倾听，听到有人在敲碗，还有一阵阵干咳。但没有说话声，也没有狗叫。

The door, as well as I could see it in the dim light, was a great piece of wood all studded with nails; and I lifted my hand with a faint heart under my jacket, and knocked once. Then I stood and waited. The house had fallen into a dead silence; a whole minute passed away, and nothing stirred but the bats overhead. I knocked again, and hearkened again. By this time my ears had grown so accustomed to the quiet, that I could hear the ticking of the clock inside as it slowly counted out the seconds; but whoever was in that house kept deadly still, and must have held his breath.
我在昏暗的灯光下看到，门是一块大木头，上面钉满了钉子。我小心翼翼地在外套下抬起手，敲了敲门。然后我站着等待。屋子里陷入了死一般的寂静。整整一分钟过去了，除了头顶上的蝙蝠之外，没有任何动静。我又敲了敲门，又听了一遍。这时，我的耳朵已经习惯了安静，我能听到里面时钟的滴答声，它慢慢地数着秒数。但那房子里的人却一动不动，一定屏住了呼吸。

I was in two minds whether to run away; but anger got the upper hand, and I began instead to rain kicks and buffets on the door, and to shout out aloud for Mr. Balfour. I was in full career, when I heard the cough right overhead, and jumping back and looking up, beheld a man’s head in a tall nightcap, and the bell mouth of a blunderbuss, at one of the first-storey windows.
我犹豫着要不要逃跑；但愤怒占了上风，我开始对门猛踢、猛击，并大声喊叫贝尔福先生。当我听到头顶上传来咳嗽声时，我正忙着工作，我猛地向后一仰，抬头一看，看到一楼的一扇窗户旁有一个戴着高高的睡帽的男人的头，还有一只铳的喇叭口。

‘It’s loaded,’ said a voice.
“已经加载了，”一个声音说道。

‘I have come here with a letter,’ I said, ‘to Mr. Ebenezer Balfour of Shaws. Is he here?’
“我带着一封信来到这里，”我说，“写给邵氏的埃比尼泽·贝尔福先生。”他在这里吗？'

‘From whom is it?’ asked the man with the blunderbuss.
“这是谁的？”拿着铳的人问道。

‘That is neither here nor there,’ said I, for I was growing very wroth.
“那既不在这里也不在那里，”我说，因为我变得非常愤怒。

‘Well,’ was the reply, ‘ye can put it down upon the doorstep, and be off with ye.’
“好吧，”他回答道，“你可以把它放在门口台阶上，然后就走吧。”

‘I will do no such thing,’ I cried. ‘I will deliver it into Mr. Balfour’s hands, as it was meant I should. It is a letter of introduction.’
“我不会做这样的事，”我喊道。 “我会把它交到贝尔福先生手中，正如我应该做的那样。”这是一封介绍信。

‘A what?’ cried the voice, sharply.
“什么？”那声音尖锐地喊道。

I repeated what I had said.
我重复了我说过的话。

‘Who are ye, yourself?’ was the next question, after a considerable pause.
“你自己是谁？”在相当长的停顿之后，下一个问题是。

‘I am not ashamed of my name,’ said I. ‘They call me David Balfour.’
“我不为自己的名字感到羞耻，”我说，“他们叫我大卫·贝尔福。”

At that, I made sure the man started, for I heard the blunderbuss rattle on the window-sill; and it was after quite a long pause, and with a curious change of voice, that the next question followed:
这时，我确信那人吓了一跳，因为我听到了窗台上的铳声。过了很长时间的停顿，声音发生了奇怪的变化，接着问了下一个问题：

‘Is your father dead?’
“你父亲死了吗？”

I was so much surprised at this, that I could find no voice to answer, but stood staring.
我对此感到非常惊讶，以至于找不到声音来回答，只是站在那里盯着。

‘Ay’ the man resumed, ‘he’ll be dead, no doubt; and that’ll be what brings ye chapping to my door.’ Another pause, and then defiantly, ‘Well, man,’ he said, ‘I’ll let ye in;’ and he disappeared from the window.
“是的，”那人继续说道，“毫无疑问，他会死的；” ”又停顿了一下，然后挑衅地说，“好吧，伙计，”他说，“我让你们进来；”然后他就从窗户里消失了。

CHAPTER III
第三章


I MAKE ACQUAINTANCE OF MY UNCLE
我认识了我的叔叔

Presently there came a great rattling of chains and bolts, and the door was cautiously opened and shut to again behind me as soon as I had passed.
不久，传来了链条和门闩的巨大嘎嘎声，我一经过，门就被小心翼翼地打开，又在我身后关上。

‘Go into the kitchen and touch naething,’ said the voice; and while the person of the house set himself to replacing the defences of the door, I groped my way forward and entered the kitchen.
“进厨房去碰点东西吧，”那个声音说道。当房子的主人开始更换门的防护装置时，我摸索着前进，走进了厨房。

The fire had burned up fairly bright, and showed me the barest room I think I ever put my eyes on. Half-a-dozen dishes stood upon the shelves; the table was laid for supper with a bowl of porridge, a horn spoon, and a cup of small beer. Besides what I have named, there was not another thing in that great, stone-vaulted, empty chamber but lockfast chests arranged along the wall and a corner cupboard with a padlock.
火已经烧得相当明亮，向我展示了我认为我见过的最简陋的房间。架子上摆着六盘菜肴。晚饭桌上摆着一碗粥、一把牛角勺和一杯小啤酒。除了我所提到的东西之外，那个巨大的、石拱形的、空荡荡的房间里除了沿着墙壁排列的锁紧的箱子和一个带挂锁的角落柜子之外，没有别的东西。

As soon as the last chain was up, the man rejoined me. He was a mean, stooping, narrow-shouldered, clay-faced creature; and his age might have been anything between fifty and seventy. His nightcap was of flannel, and so was the nightgown that he wore, instead of coat and waistcoat, over his ragged shirt. He was long unshaved; but what most distressed and even daunted me, he would neither take his eyes away from me nor look me fairly in the face. What he was, whether by trade or birth, was more than I could fathom; but he seemed most like an old, unprofitable serving-man, who should have been left in charge of that big house upon board wages.
当最后一根链子解开时，那个人就回到了我身边。他是个卑鄙、驼背、窄肩、脸色泥土的生物。他的年龄可能在五十岁到七十岁之间。他的睡帽是法兰绒的，他在破烂的衬衫外面穿的睡衣也是法兰绒的，而不是外套和背心。他很久没刮胡子了。但最令我痛苦甚至畏惧的是，他既不把目光从我身上移开，也不公平地看着我的脸。他的身份，无论是出身还是出身，都超出了我的想象。但他看起来最像一个无利可图的老仆人，他本应该靠伙食工资来管理那座大房子。

‘Are ye sharp-set?’ he asked, glancing at about the level of my knee. ‘Ye can eat that drop parritch?’
“你的身体很锋利吗？”他问道，眼睛的高度大约在我膝盖的高度。 “你能吃那滴帕里奇吗？”

I said I feared it was his own supper.
我说我担心这是他自己的晚餐。

‘O,’ said he, ‘I can do fine wanting it. I’ll take the ale, though, for it slockens[1] my cough.’ He drank the cup about half out, still keeping an eye upon me as he drank; and then suddenly held out his hand. ‘Let’s see the letter,’ said he.
“哦，”他说，“我想要它就可以了。”不过，我还是要喝啤酒，因为它可以缓解[1]我的咳嗽。”他喝了大约一半，喝的时候仍然注视着我；然后突然伸出了手。 “让我们看看这封信，”他说。

[1] Moistens.
[1] 滋润。

I told him the letter was for Mr. Balfour; not for him.
我告诉他这封信是写给贝尔福先生的。不适合他。

‘And who do ye think I am?’ says he. ‘Give me Alexander’s letter.’
“你们认为我是谁？”他说。 “把亚历山大的信给我。”

‘You know my father’s name?’
“你知道我父亲的名字吗？”

‘It would be strange if I didnae,’ he returned, ‘for he was my born brother; and little as ye seem to like either me or my house, or my good parritch, I’m your born uncle, Davie, my man, and you my born nephew. So give us the letter, and sit down and fill your kyte.’
“如果我不这么做才奇怪，”他回答道，“因为他是我亲生的兄弟；尽管你们似乎不太喜欢我、我的房子，或者我的好帕里奇，但我是你们天生的叔叔，戴维，我的男人，而你是我天生的侄子。所以把信交给我们，然后坐下来给你的风筝加油。

If I had been some years younger, what with shame, weariness, and disappointment, I believe I had burst into tears. As it was, I could find no words, neither black nor white, but handed him the letter, and sat down to the porridge with as little appetite for meat as ever a young man had.
如果我年轻几岁，带着羞耻、疲倦和失望，我相信我已经泪流满面了。事实上，我找不到任何言语，无论是黑是白，但还是把信递给了他，然后坐下来喝粥，就像年轻人一样对肉没什么胃口。

Meanwhile, my uncle, stooping over the fire, turned the letter over and over in his hands.
与此同时，我叔叔弯下腰，在火边把信在手里翻来覆去。

‘Do ye ken what’s in it?’ he asked, suddenly.
“你知道里面装的是什么吗？”他突然问道。

‘You see for yourself, sir,’ said I, ‘that the seal has not been broken.’
“先生，您亲眼所见，”我说道，“封印还没有被打破。”

‘Ay,’ said he, ‘but what brought you here?’
“是啊，”他说，“但是是什么把你吹到这里来的呢？”

‘To give the letter,’ said I.
“交给这封信，”我说。

‘No,’ says he, cunningly, ‘but ye’ll have had some hopes, nae doubt?’
“不，”他狡猾地说，“但你会抱有一些希望，毫无疑问？”

‘I confess, sir,’ said I, ‘when I was told that I had kinsfolk well-to-do, I did indeed indulge the hope that they might help me in my life. But I am no beggar; I look for no favours at your hands, and I want none that are not freely given. For as poor as I appear, I have friends of my own that will be blithe to help me.’
“我承认，先生，”我说，“当我得知我有富裕的亲戚时，我确实寄希望于他们能在我的生活中帮助我。但我不是乞丐；我不希望从你手中得到什么恩惠，也不想要任何非白白给予的恩惠。尽管我看起来很穷，但我有自己的朋友，他们会很乐意帮助我。

‘Hoot-toot!’ said Uncle Ebenezer, ‘dinnae fly up in the snuff at me. We’ll agree fine yet. And, Davie, my man, if you’re done with that bit parritch, I could just take a sup of it myself. Ay,’ he continued, as soon as he had ousted me from the stool and spoon, ‘they’re fine, halesome food — they’re grand food, parritch.’ He murmured a little grace to himself and fell to. ‘Your father was very fond of his meat, I mind; he was a hearty, if not a great eater; but as for me, I could never do mair than pyke at food.’ He took a pull at the small beer, which probably reminded him of hospitable duties, for his next speech ran thus: ‘If ye’re dry ye’ll find water behind the door.’
“呜呜！”埃比尼泽叔叔说，“小鸟向我飞来。”我们会同意的。而且，戴维，我的朋友，如果你吃完了那块帕里奇，我自己也可以吃一顿。是的，”他把我从凳子和勺子上推出后，继续说道，“它们是美味的、美味的食物——它们是美味的食物，帕里奇。”他低声对自己说了一句优雅的话，然后就倒下了。 “我介意，你父亲非常喜欢吃肉；他虽然不是一个吃得很好的人，但也是一个很丰盛的人。他喝了一小口啤酒，这可能让他想起了热情好客的职责，因为他的下一个演讲是这样的：“如果你干了，你会发现门后有水。

To this I returned no answer, standing stiffly on my two feet, and looking down upon my uncle with a mighty angry heart. He, on his part, continued to eat like a man under some pressure of time, and to throw out little darting glances now at my shoes and now at my home-spun stockings. Once only, when he had ventured to look a little higher, our eyes met; and no thief taken with a hand in a man’s pocket could have shown more lively signals of distress. This set me in a muse, whether his timidity arose from too long a disuse of any human company; and whether perhaps, upon a little trial, it might pass off, and my uncle change into an altogether different man. From this I was awakened by his sharp voice.
我没有回答，两脚僵硬地站着，怀着强烈的愤怒俯视着叔叔。就他而言，在时间的压力下，他继续像个男人一样吃饭，时而扫视我的鞋子，时而扫视我自制的长袜。只有一次，当他冒险把目光看得更高一点时，我们的目光相遇了。没有哪个小偷把手伸进人的口袋里抓住，会表现出比这更生动的痛苦信号。这让我陷入了沉思，他的胆怯是否是由于太久没有与人类交往而产生的？或许，经过一点小小的尝试，它就会过去，而我叔叔会变成一个完全不同的人。说到这里，我被他尖锐的声音吵醒了。

‘Your father’s been long dead?’ he asked.
“你父亲去世很久了？”他问道。

‘Three weeks, sir,’ said I.
“三个星期，先生，”我说。

‘He was a secret man, Alexander — a secret, silent man,’ he continued. ‘He never said muckle when he was young. He’ll never have spoken muckle of me?’
“他是一个秘密的人，亚历山大——一个秘密的、沉默的人，”他继续说道。 “他年轻时从来不说脏话。他永远不会说我的坏话吧？

‘I never knew, sir, till you told it me yourself, that he had any brother.’
“先生，我从来不知道他有兄弟，直到你亲口告诉我。”

‘Dear me, dear me!’ said Ebenezer. ‘Nor yet of Shaws, I dare say?’
“天哪，天哪！”埃比尼泽说。 “我敢说，邵氏也没有？”

‘Not so much as the name, sir,’ said I.
“与其说是名字，先生，”我说。

‘To think o’ that!’ said he. ‘A strange nature of a man!’ For all that, he seemed singularly satisfied, but whether with himself, or me, or with this conduct of my father’s, was more than I could read. Certainly, however, he seemed to be outgrowing that distaste, or ill-will, that he had conceived at first against my person; for presently he jumped up, came across the room behind me, and hit me a smack upon the shoulder. ‘We’ll agree fine yet!’ he cried. ‘I’m just as glad I let you in. And now come awa’ to your bed.’
“想一想吧！”他说。 “这个人的本性很奇怪！”尽管如此，他似乎还是非常满意，但无论是对他自己，还是对我，还是对我父亲的这种行为，都超出了我的理解范围。然而，当然，他似乎已经不再对我一开始抱有的厌恶或恶意了。因为不久他就跳了起来，穿过房间来到我身后，拍了一下我的肩膀。 “我们还是会同意的！”他喊道。 “我很高兴让你进来。现在到你的床上来吧。”

To my surprise, he lit no lamp or candle, but set forth into the dark passage, groped his way, breathing deeply, up a flight of steps, and paused before a door, which he unlocked. I was close upon his heels, having stumbled after him as best I might; and then he bade me go in, for that was my chamber. I did as he bid, but paused after a few steps, and begged a light to go to bed with.
令我惊讶的是，他没有点燃灯或蜡烛，而是走进黑暗的通道，深呼吸地摸索着走上一段台阶，在一扇门前停了下来，打开了门。我竭尽全力跟在他后面，跌跌撞撞地紧追在他身后。然后他请我进去，因为那是我的房间。我按照他的吩咐做了，但走了几步就停了下来，请求点灯睡觉。

‘Hoot-toot!’ said Uncle Ebenezer, ‘there’s a fine moon.’
“呜呜！”埃比尼泽叔叔说，“月亮真美。”

‘Neither moon nor star, sir, and pit-mirk,’[2] said I. ‘I cannae see the bed.’
“既不是月亮也不是星星，先生，还有坑洼，”我说。“我看不到床。”

[2] Dark as the pit.
[2] 黑暗如深渊。

‘Hoot-toot, hoot-toot!’ said he. ‘Lights in a house is a thing I dinnae agree with. I’m unco feared of fires. Good-night to ye, Davie, my man.’ And before I had time to add a further protest, he pulled the door to, and I heard him lock me in from the outside.
“呜呜，呜呜！”他说。 “我非常同意房子里有灯。我非常害怕火灾。晚安，戴维，我的朋友。”在我有时间进一步抗议之前，他拉上了门，我听到他从外面把我锁在里面。

I did not know whether to laugh or cry. The room was as cold as a well, and the bed, when I had found my way to it, as damp as a peat-hag; but by good fortune I had caught up my bundle and my plaid, and rolling myself in the latter, I lay down upon the floor under lee of the big bedstead, and fell speedily asleep.
我不知道是该笑还是该哭。房间冷得像一口井，而床，当我找到路时，却像泥炭女巫一样潮湿。但幸运的是，我捡起了我的包袱和格子布，把自己裹在格子布里，躺在大床架背风处的地板上，很快就睡着了。

With the first peep of day I opened my eyes, to find myself in a great chamber, hung with stamped leather, furnished with fine embroidered furniture, and lit by three fair windows. Ten years ago, or perhaps twenty, it must have been as pleasant a room to lie down or to awake in as a man could wish; but damp, dirt, disuse, and the mice and spiders had done their worst since then. Many of the window-panes, besides, were broken; and indeed this was so common a feature in that house, that I believe my uncle must at some time have stood a siege from his indignant neighbours — perhaps with Jennet Clouston at their head.
天一亮，我睁开眼睛，发现自己身处一间大房间里，房间里挂着压花皮革，配有精美的刺绣家具，三扇漂亮的窗户照亮了房间。十年前，或者也许是二十年前，在这个房间里躺下或醒来一定是一件令人愉快的事，就像一个人所希望的那样。但潮湿、肮脏、废弃，老鼠和蜘蛛从那时起就表现得最糟糕。此外，许多窗玻璃都被打破了。事实上，这在这座房子里是很常见的一个特征，我相信我的叔叔一定在某个时候抵御过他愤怒的邻居的围攻——也许是詹妮特·克劳斯顿带头。

Meanwhile the sun was shining outside; and being very cold in that miserable room, I knocked and shouted till my gaoler came and let me out. He carried me to the back of the house, where was a draw-well, and told me to ‘wash my face there, if I wanted;’ and when that was done, I made the best of my own way back to the kitchen, where he had lit the fire and was making the porridge. The table was laid with two bowls and two horn spoons, but the same single measure of small beer. Perhaps my eye rested on this particular with some surprise, and perhaps my uncle observed it; for he spoke up as if in answer to my thought, asking me if I would like to drink ale — for so he called it.
与此同时，外面阳光明媚。在那间破烂的房间里，我感到非常寒冷，我敲门、喊叫，直到看守过来把我放了出来。他把我抱到房子后面，那里有一个抽水井，并告诉我“如果我愿意的话，可以在那里洗脸；”洗完后，我用自己的方式回到了厨房。 ，他在那里生火并煮粥。桌子上摆着两个碗和两个牛角勺，但同样是一小杯啤酒。也许我的目光带着某种惊讶停留在这个特殊的地方，也许我的叔叔也注意到了；也许我的叔叔注意到了这一点。因为他好像在回答我的想法，问我是否想喝啤酒——他这么称呼它。

I told him such was my habit, but not to put himself about.
我告诉他这是我的习惯，但不是为了表现自己。

‘Na, na,’ said he; ‘I’ll deny you nothing in reason.’
“不，不，”他说。 “我不会以任何理由拒绝你。”

He fetched another cup from the shelf; and then, to my great surprise, instead of drawing more beer, he poured an accurate half from one cup to the other. There was a kind of nobleness in this that took my breath away; if my uncle was certainly a miser, he was one of that thorough breed that goes near to make the vice respectable.
他从架子上又拿了一个杯子；然后，令我大吃一惊的是，他没有再倒啤酒，而是准确地从一个杯子里倒了一半到另一个杯子里。这其中有一种高贵的气质，让我惊叹不已。如果说我的叔叔确实是个守财奴，那么他就是那种彻底的吝啬鬼，几乎使恶习变得值得尊敬。

When we had made an end of our meal, my uncle Ebenezer unlocked a drawer, and drew out of it a clay pipe and a lump of tobacco, from which he cut one fill before he locked it up again. Then he sat down in the sun at one of the windows and silently smoked. From time to time his eyes came coasting round to me, and he shot out one of his questions. Once it was, ‘And your mother?’ and when I had told him that she, too, was dead, ‘Ay, she was a bonnie lassie!’ Then, after another long pause, ‘Whae were these friends o’ yours?’
当我们吃完饭后，我叔叔埃比尼泽打开了一个抽屉，从里面拿出一根陶制烟斗和一块烟草，他从里面切了一大块，然后又把它锁上。然后他坐在一扇窗边晒太阳，默默地抽烟。他的目光时不时地扫向我，然后提出一个问题。有一次，“你的母亲呢？”当我告诉他她也死了时，“啊，她是个漂亮的小姑娘！”然后，又是一次长时间的停顿，“你的这些朋友是谁？” '

I told him they were different gentlemen of the name of Campbell; though, indeed, there was only one, and that the minister, that had ever taken the least note of me; but I began to think my uncle made too light of my position, and finding myself all alone with him, I did not wish him to suppose me helpless.
我告诉他他们是不同的绅士，都叫坎贝尔。虽然事实上只有一个人，就是那位部长，曾经对我有过丝毫的注意。但我开始觉得叔叔太轻视我的处境了，而且我发现自己独自一人和他在一起，我不希望他认为我很无助。

He seemed to turn this over in his mind; and then, ‘Davie, my man,’ said he, ‘ye’ve come to the right bit when ye came to your uncle Ebenezer. I’ve a great notion of the family, and I mean to do the right by you; but while I’m taking a bit think to mysel’ of what’s the best thing to put you to — whether the law, or the meenistry, or maybe the army, whilk is what boys are fondest of — I wouldnae like the Balfours to be humbled before a wheen Hieland Campbells, and I’ll ask you to keep your tongue within your teeth. Nae letters; nae messages; no kind of word to onybody; or else — there’s my door.’
他似乎在心里反复思考这件事；然后，‘戴维，我的朋友，’他说，‘当你来到你叔叔埃比尼泽身边时，你就来对了地方。我对家庭有很好的观念，我打算对你做正确的事；但是，当我自己思考什么是最好的事情时，让你去做什么——无论是法律，还是米尼斯特里，或者也许是军队，而男孩们最喜欢的是——我不喜欢贝尔福一家在希兰·坎贝尔斯面前谦卑下来，我会要求你保持你的舌头在你的牙齿里。 Nae字母； nae消息；没有对任何人说任何话；否则——那是我的门。”

‘Uncle Ebenezer,’ said I, ‘I’ve no manner of reason to suppose you mean anything but well by me. For all that, I would have you to know that I have a pride of my own. It was by no will of mine that I came seeking you; and if you show me your door again, I’ll take you at the word.’
“埃比尼泽叔叔，”我说，“我没有任何理由认为你对我不是好意。尽管如此，我想让你知道我有自己的骄傲。我来找你并不是出于我的意愿；如果你再次向我展示你的门，我就相信你的话。

He seemed grievously put out. ‘Hoots-toots,’ said he, ‘ca’ cannie, man — ca’ cannie! Bide a day or two. I’m nae warlock, to find a fortune for you in the bottom of a parritch bowl; but just you give me a day or two, and say naething to naebody, and as sure as sure, I’ll do the right by you.’
他看上去非常沮丧。 “呜呜呜，”他说，“ca”cannie，老兄——ca“cannie！”等待一两天。我不是术士，是为了在帕里奇碗的底部为你找到一笔财富；但只要你给我一两天的时间，对任何人说“不”，并且毫无疑问，我会为你做正确的事。

‘Very well,’ said I, ‘enough said. If you want to help me, there’s no doubt but I’ll be glad of it, and none but I’ll be grateful.’
“很好，”我说，“够了。”如果你想帮助我，毫无疑问，我会很高兴，而且我会很感激。”

It seemed to me (too soon, I dare say) that I was getting the upper hand of my uncle; and I began next to say that I must have the bed and bedclothes aired and put to sun-dry; for nothing would make me sleep in such a pickle.
在我看来（我敢说，为时过早）我似乎占了叔叔的上风。接下来我开始说，我必须把床和床单晾干并放在阳光下晒干。因为没有什么能让我在这样的困境中入睡。

‘Is this my house or yours?’ said he, in his keen voice, and then all of a sudden broke off. ‘Na, na,’ said he, ‘I didnae mean that. What’s mine is yours, Davie, my man, and what’s yours is mine. Blood’s thicker than water; and there’s naebody but you and me that ought the name.’ And then on he rambled about the family, and its ancient greatness, and his father that began to enlarge the house, and himself that stopped the building as a sinful waste; and this put it in my head to give him Jennet Clouston’s message.
“这是我的房子还是你的房子？”他用尖锐的声音问道，然后突然停住了。 “不，不，”他说，“我不是这个意思。”我的就是你的，戴维，我的朋友，你的就是我的。血浓于水；除了你和我，没有人配得上这个名字。”然后他又漫无目的地讲述了这个家族，以及它古老的伟大，还有他开始扩建房子的父亲，还有他自己，他把这座建筑视为一种罪恶的浪费而停止了建设；这让我萌生了向他传达珍妮特·克劳斯顿的信息的念头。

‘The limmer!’ he cried. ‘Twelve hunner and fifteen — that’s every day since I had the limmer rowpit![3] Dod, David, I’ll have her roasted on red peats before I’m by with it! A witch — a proclaimed witch! I’ll aff and see the session clerk.’
“那个利默尔！”他喊道。 “十二点和十五点——自从我有了利默行坑以来，每天都是这样！[3] 多德，大卫，我会在我结束之前把她放在红色泥炭上烤！一个女巫——一个被宣称的女巫！我去见见会议职员。

[3] Sold up.
[3] 已售完。

And with that he opened a chest, and got out a very old and well-preserved blue coat and waistcoat, and a good enough beaver hat, both without lace. These he threw on any way, and taking a staff from the cupboard, locked all up again, and was for setting out, when a thought arrested him.
说着，他打开了一个箱子，拿出一件非常旧的、保存完好的蓝色外套和背心，还有一顶足够好的海狸帽，两顶帽子都没有花边。他把这些东西扔到任何地方，然后从柜子里拿出一根手杖，重新锁上，准备出发，这时一个念头抓住了他。

‘I cannae leave you by yoursel’ in the house,’ said he. ‘I’ll have to lock you out.’
“我不能把你一个人留在家里，”他说。 “我得把你锁在门外。”

The blood came to my face. ‘If you lock me out,’ I said, ‘it’ll be the last you’ll see of me in friendship.’
血流到了我的脸上。 “如果你把我锁在门外，”我说，“这将是你最后一次以友谊的方式见到我。”

He turned very pale, and sucked his mouth in.
他的脸色变得非常苍白，抿紧了嘴。

‘This is no the way’ he said, looking wickedly at a corner of the floor — ‘this is no the way to win my favour, David.’
“这不是办法，”他邪恶地看着地板的一角，说道，“这不是赢得我青睐的办法，大卫。”

‘Sir,’ says I, ‘with a proper reverence for your age and our common blood, I do not value your favour at a boddle’s purchase. I was brought up to have a good conceit of myself; and if you were all the uncle, and all the family, I had in the world ten times over, I wouldn’t buy your liking at such prices.’
“先生，”我说道，“出于对您的年龄和我们共同血统的尊重，我并不看重您在购买一瓶酒时的恩惠。我从小就对自己抱有良好的自负。如果你们是我的叔叔，是我的家人，我在这个世界上十倍以上，我就不会以这样的价格购买你们喜欢的东西。

Uncle Ebenezer went and looked out of the window for awhile. I could see him all trembling and twitching, like a man with palsy. But when he turned round, he had a smile upon his face.
埃比尼泽叔叔走到窗外看了一会儿。我看到他浑身颤抖、抽搐，就像一个瘫痪的人。但当他转过身来时，他的脸上却露出了笑容。

‘Well, well,’ said he, ‘we must bear and forbear. I’ll no go; that’s all that’s to be said of it.’
“好吧，好吧，”他说，“我们必须忍耐。”我不会去；这就是所有要说的了。

‘Uncle Ebenezer,’ I said, ‘I can make nothing out of this. You use me like a thief; you hate to have me in this house; you let me see it, every word and every minute: it’s not possible that you can like me; and as for me, I’ve spoken to you as I never thought to speak to any man. Why do you seek to keep me, then? Let me gang back — let me gang back to the friends I have, and that like me!’
“埃比尼泽叔叔，”我说，“我对此一无所知。”你像小偷一样利用我；你讨厌我住在这所房子里；你让我看到了，每句话每分钟：你不可能喜欢我；至于我，我和你说话就像我从未想过要和任何人说话一样。那你为什么要留住我？让我回归——让我回归我所拥有的朋友们，就像我一样！

‘Na, na; na, na,’ he said, very earnestly. ‘I like you fine; we’ll agree fine yet; and for the honour of the house I couldnae let you leave the way ye came. Bide here quiet, there’s a good lad; just you bide here quiet a bittie, and ye’ll find that we agree.’
‘不，不；不，不，”他非常认真地说。 ‘我很喜欢你；我们还是会同意的；为了房子的荣誉，我不能让你离开你来的路。安静地待在这里，有一个好小伙子；只要你在这里安静一点，你就会发现我们同意。

‘Well, sir,’ said I, after I had thought the matter out in silence, ‘I’ll stay awhile. It’s more just I should be helped by my own blood than strangers; and if we don’t agree, I’ll do my best it shall be through no fault of mine.’
“好吧，先生，”我默默想了想之后说道，“我会停留一段时间。”我更应该得到自己的鲜血的帮助，而不是陌生人的帮助；如果我们不同意，我会尽力而为，这不是我的错。”

CHAPTER IV
第四章


I RUN A GREAT DANGER IN THE HOUSE OF SHAWS
我在萧家遇到了巨大的危险

For a day that was begun so ill, the day passed fairly well. We had the porridge cold again at noon, and hot porridge at night; porridge and small beer was my uncle’s diet. He spoke but little, and that in the same way as before, shooting a question at me after a long silence; and when I sought to lead him to talk about my future, slipped out of it again. In a room next door to the kitchen, where he suffered me to go, I found a great number of books, both Latin and English, in which I took great pleasure all the afternoon. Indeed, the time passed so lightly in this good company, that I began to be almost reconciled to my residence at Shaws; and nothing but the sight of my uncle, and his eyes playing hide and seek with mine, revived the force of my distrust.
这一天的开始如此糟糕，但这一天过得还算顺利。中午又喝冷粥，晚上又喝热粥；粥和小啤酒是我叔叔的饮食。他很少说话，就像以前一样，在沉默了很长一段时间后向我提出了一个问题。当我试图引导他谈论我的未来时，我又脱口而出。在他允许我去厨房隔壁的一个房间里，我发现了很多拉丁文和英文的书籍，整个下午我都在其中度过了愉快的时光。事实上，在这个美好的陪伴下，时间过得如此轻松，我开始几乎适应了我在邵氏的住处。唯有看到我叔叔，以及他和我玩捉迷藏的眼神，我才重新燃起不信任的感觉。

One thing I discovered, which put me in some doubt. This was an entry on the fly-leaf of a chap-book (one of Patrick Walker’s) plainly written by my father’s hand and thus conceived: ‘To my brother Ebenezer on his fifth birthday’ Now, what puzzled me was this: That, as my father was of course the younger brother, he must either have made some strange error, or he must have written, before he was yet five, an excellent, clear manly hand of writing.
我发现的一件事让我产生了一些疑问。这是一本小册子（帕特里克·沃克的一本）扉页上的一个条目，清楚地由我父亲亲笔书写，因此构思为：“致我兄弟埃比尼泽五岁生日”现在，令我困惑的是：因为我父亲当然是弟弟，他要么犯了一些奇怪的错误，要么他在五岁之前就写出了一手出色、清晰、有男子气概的字。

I tried to get this out of my head; but though I took down many interesting authors, old and new, history, poetry, and story-book, this notion of my father’s hand of writing stuck to me; and when at length I went back into the kitchen, and sat down once more to porridge and small beer, the first thing I said to Uncle Ebenezer was to ask him if my father had not been very quick at his book.
我试图把这件事从我的脑海中抹去。尽管我记下了许多有趣的作家，无论是新老作家，还是历史、诗歌和故事书，我父亲的写作之手的观念一直萦绕在我心头。最后我回到厨房，再次坐下来喝粥和小杯啤酒，我对埃比尼泽叔叔说的第一件事就是问他我父亲的书读得是否很快。

‘Alexander? No him!’ was the reply. ‘I was far quicker mysel’; I was a clever chappie when I was young. Why, I could read as soon as he could.’
‘亚历山大？没有他！”这是回答。 “我自己的速度要快得多”；我年轻时是个聪明的家伙。为什么，我可以和他一样快地读书。

This puzzled me yet more; and a thought coming into my head, I asked if he and my father had been twins.
这让我更加困惑；我脑子里闪过一个念头，我问他和我父亲是不是双胞胎。

He jumped upon his stool, and the horn spoon fell out of his hand upon the floor. ‘What gars ye ask that?’ he said, and he caught me by the breast of the jacket, and looked this time straight into my eyes: his own were little and light, and bright like a bird’s, blinking and winking strangely.
他跳到凳子上，牛角勺从他手里掉到了地板上。 “你问什么？”他说，他抓住了我的夹克胸口，这次直视着我的眼睛：他的眼睛又小又轻，像鸟儿一样明亮，奇怪地眨着眼睛。

‘What do you mean?’ I asked, very calmly, for I was far stronger than he, and not easily frightened. ‘Take your hand from my jacket. This is no way to behave.’
“你这是什么意思？”我非常平静地问道，因为我比他坚强得多，而且不容易被吓到。 ‘把你的手从我的夹克上拿开。这不是一种行为方式。

My uncle seemed to make a great effort upon himself. ‘Dod man, David,’ he said, ‘ye should-nae speak to me about your father. That’s where the mistake is.’ He sat awhile and shook, blinking in his plate: ‘He was all the brother that ever I had,’ he added, but with no heart in his voice; and then he caught up his spoon and fell to supper again, but still shaking.
我叔叔似乎对自己下了很大的功夫。 “大卫，老兄，”他说，“你不应该跟我谈谈你的父亲。”这就是错误所在。”他坐了一会儿，浑身发抖，在盘子里眨着眼睛：“他是我所拥有的最好的兄弟，”他补充道，但他的声音中没有感情；他是我的兄弟。”然后他拿起勺子，又开始吃晚饭了，但仍然在颤抖。

Now this last passage, this laying of hands upon my person and sudden profession of love for my dead father, went so clean beyond my comprehension that it put me into both fear and hope. On the one hand, I began to think my uncle was perhaps insane and might be dangerous; on the other, there came up into my mind (quite unbidden by me and even discouraged) a story like some ballad I had heard folk singing, of a poor lad that was a rightful heir and a wicked kinsman that tried to keep him from his own. For why should my uncle play a part with a relative that came, almost a beggar, to his door, unless in his heart he had some cause to fear him?
现在，这最后一段话，按手在我身上，以及突然向我死去的父亲表达的爱，如此清晰地超出了我的理解，让我既感到恐惧，又感到希望。一方面，我开始认为我的叔叔可能疯了，可能很危险；另一方面，我的脑海中浮现出一个故事（完全不由自主，甚至让我灰心丧气），就像我听过的民谣一样，讲述的是一个可怜的小伙子，他是一个合法的继承人，而一个邪恶的亲戚却试图阻止他与他的亲人团聚。自己的。因为，除非他心里有理由害怕他，否则为什么我的叔叔要和一个几乎是乞丐的亲戚一起到他家门口呢？

With this notion, all unacknowledged, but nevertheless getting firmly settled in my head, I now began to imitate his covert looks; so that we sat at table like a cat and a mouse, each stealthily observing the other. Not another word had he to say to me, black or white, but was busy turning something secretly over in his mind; and the longer we sat and the more I looked at him, the more certain I became that the something was unfriendly to myself.
虽然这个想法虽然未被承认，但却已经牢牢地扎根在我的脑海里，我现在开始模仿他隐蔽的表情；于是我们像猫和老鼠一样坐在餐桌旁，互相偷偷地观察着对方。他没有再对我说一句话，不管是黑是白，只是忙着在心里暗自思考着什么。我们坐的时间越长，我看他的次数越多，我就越确定这件事对我自己不友好。

When he had cleared the platter, he got out a single pipeful of tobacco, just as in the morning, turned round a stool into the chimney corner, and sat awhile smoking, with his back to me.
当他清理完盘子后，他像早上一样拿出一管烟草，把凳子转到烟囱角上，背对着我坐了一会儿烟。

‘Davie,’ he said, at length, ‘I’ve been thinking;’ then he paused, and said it again. ‘There’s a wee bit siller that I half promised ye before ye were born,’ he continued; ‘promised it to your father. O, naething legal, ye understand; just gentlemen daffing at their wine. Well, I keepit that bit money separate — it was a great expense, but a promise is a promise — and it has grown by now to be a matter of just precisely — just exactly’ — and here he paused and stumbled — ‘of just exactly forty pounds!’ This last he rapped out with a sidelong glance over his shoulder; and the next moment added, almost with a scream, ‘Scots!’
“戴维，”他最后说道，“我一直在想；”然后他停了下来，又说了一遍。 “我在你们出生之前就向你们许诺了，这有点傻了，”他继续说道。 ‘答应过你父亲的。哦，这是不合法的，你们明白；只是绅士们在喝酒。好吧，我把那一点钱分开了——这是一笔很大的开支，但承诺就是承诺——现在它已经发展成为一个精确的问题——精确的”——在这里他停了下来，结结巴巴地——“只是整整四十磅！”他回头看了一眼，大声说出了最后一句话。下一刻，几乎是一声尖叫，“苏格兰人！”

The pound Scots being the same thing as an English shilling, the difference made by this second thought was considerable; I could see, besides, that the whole story was a lie, invented with some end which it puzzled me to guess; and I made no attempt to conceal the tone of raillery in which I answered —
苏格兰镑和英国先令是一样的东西，再考虑一下就会产生相当大的差别。此外，我看得出来，整个故事都是谎言，编造出来的结局让我无法猜测。我并没有试图掩饰我回答时的嘲讽语气——

‘O, think again, sir! Pounds sterling, I believe!’
‘噢，再想一想，先生！英镑，我相信！

‘That’s what I said,’ returned my uncle: ‘pounds sterling! And if you’ll step out-by to the door a minute, just to see what kind of a night it is, I’ll get it out to ye and call ye in again.’
“我就是这么说的，”叔叔回答道：“英镑！”如果你能走到门口一分钟，看看这是一个什么样的夜晚，我会把它交给你，然后再叫你进来。

I did his will, smiling to myself in my contempt that he should think I was so easily to be deceived. It was a dark night, with a few stars low down; and as I stood just outside the door, I heard a hollow moaning of wind far off among the hills. I said to myself there was something thundery and changeful in the weather, and little knew of what a vast importance that should prove to me before the evening passed.
我遵照他的意愿，轻蔑地对自己微笑，他居然认为我这么容易上当受骗。那是一个漆黑的夜晚，低垂着几颗星星；当我站在门外时，我听到远处山间传来一阵低沉的风声。我对自己说，天气有些雷鸣，变化无常，但几乎不知道在晚上过去之前，这对我来说有多么重要。

When I was called in again, my uncle counted out into my hand seven and thirty golden guinea pieces; the rest was in his hand, in small gold and silver; but his heart failed him there, and he crammed the change into his pocket.
当我再次被叫进去时，叔叔数出了我手里的七枚和三十枚金几内亚；其余的都在他手里，都是小金银。但他的心已经崩溃了，他把零钱塞进口袋里。

‘There,’ said he, ‘that’ll show you! I’m a queer man, and strange wi’ strangers; but my word is my bond, and there’s the proof of it.’
“好了，”他说，“这会告诉你的！”我是个奇怪的人，对陌生人也很奇怪；但我的话就是我的保证，并且有证据证明这一点。”

Now, my uncle seemed so miserly that I was struck dumb by this sudden generosity, and could find no words in which to thank him.
现在，叔叔显得如此吝啬，我被他突如其来的慷慨之举惊得哑口无言，找不到言语来感谢他。

‘No a word!’ said he. ‘Nae thanks; I want nae thanks. I do my duty. I’m no saying that everybody would have, done it; but for my part (though I’m a careful body, too) it’s a pleasure to me to do the right by my brother’s son; and it’s a pleasure to me to think that now we’ll agree as such near friends should.’
“不说话！”他说。 ‘不，谢谢；我想要，谢谢。我尽我的职责。我并不是说每个人都会这么做；但就我而言（尽管我也是一个小心谨慎的人），我很高兴能为我兄弟的儿子做点好事；我很高兴想到现在我们会像亲密的朋友一样达成一致。

I spoke him in return as handsomely as I was able; but all the while I was wondering what would come next, and why he had parted with his precious guineas; for as to the reason he had given, a baby would have refused it.
我尽可能用客气的语气回敬他。但我一直在想接下来会发生什么，以及他为什么要放弃他珍贵的几尼。因为至于他给出的理由，一个婴儿会拒绝的。

Presently he looked towards me sideways.
不久，他侧身看向我。

‘And see here,’ says he, ‘tit for tat.’
“看这里，”他说，“针锋相对。”

I told him I was ready to prove my gratitude in any reasonable degree, and then waited, looking for some monstrous demand. And yet, when at last he plucked up courage to speak, it was only to tell me (very properly, as I thought) that he was growing old and a little broken, and that he would expect me to help him with the house and the bit garden.
我告诉他我已经准备好以任何合理的程度来表达我的感激之情，然后等待，寻找一些可怕的要求。然而，当他最后鼓起勇气开口说话时，只是告诉我（正如我所想的那样，非常恰当）他已经老了，有点破碎了，他希望我能帮助他打理房子和生活。比特花园。

I answered, and expressed my readiness to serve.
我回答了，并表示我愿意服务。

‘Well,’ he said, ‘let’s begin.’ He pulled out of his pocket a rusty key. ‘There,’ says he, ‘there’s the key of the stair-tower at the far end of the house. Ye can only win into it from the outside, for that part of the house is no finished. Gang ye in there, and up the stairs, and bring me down the chest that’s at the top. There’s papers in’t,’ he added.
“好吧，”他说，“我们开始吧。”他从口袋里掏出一把生锈的钥匙。 “那里，”他说，“房子尽头有楼梯塔的钥匙。你只能从外面进去，因为房子的那部分还没有完工。刚爷进去，上楼梯，把我带下顶部的箱子。里面没有文件，”他补充道。

‘Can I have a light, sir?’ said I.
“先生，能给我一盏灯吗？”我说道。

‘Na,’ said he, very cunningly. ‘Nae lights in my house.’
“不，”他非常狡猾地说。 “我家里没有灯。”

‘Very well, sir,’ said I. ‘Are the stairs good?’
“很好，先生，”我说，“楼梯好吗？”

‘They’re grand,’ said he; and then, as I was going, ‘Keep to the wall,’ he added; ‘there’s nae bannisters. But the stairs are grand underfoot.’
“它们太棒了，”他说。然后，当我要走的时候，他补充道：“靠墙走”。 ‘那儿有栏杆。但脚下的楼梯很宏伟。”

Out I went into the night. The wind was still moaning in the distance, though never a breath of it came near the house of Shaws. It had fallen blacker than ever; and I was glad to feel along the wall, till I came the length of the stairtower door at the far end of the unfinished wing. I had got the key into the keyhole and had just turned it, when all upon a sudden, without sound of wind or thunder, the whole sky lighted up with wild fire and went black again. I had to put my hand over my eyes to get back to the colour of the darkness; and indeed I was already half blinded when I stepped into the tower.
我走出去，走进了夜色之中。风仍在远处呼啸，但一丝风都没有吹到肖斯的房子附近。天色变得比以前更黑了。我很高兴沿着墙摸索，直到到达未完工的侧翼远端的楼梯塔门的长度。我把钥匙插进钥匙孔，刚转动，突然，没有风声，没有雷声，整个天空都被野火照亮，又变黑了。我必须用手捂住眼睛才能恢复黑暗的颜色；事实上，当我踏入塔楼时，我的眼睛已经半瞎了。

It was so dark inside, it seemed a body could scarce breathe; but I pushed out with foot and hand, and presently struck the wall with the one, and the lowermost round of the stair with the other. The wall, by the touch, was of fine hewn stone; the steps too, though somewhat steep and narrow, were of polished masonwork, and regular and solid underfoot. Minding my uncle’s word about the bannisters, I kept close to the tower side, and felt my way in the pitch darkness with a beating heart.
里面漆黑一片，让人几乎无法呼吸。但我用脚和手推出去，很快，一只脚撞到了墙上，另一只脚撞到了楼梯的最下一层。摸上去，墙壁是用精致的石头砌成的。台阶虽然有些陡峭和狭窄，但却是用抛光的砖石砌成的，脚下规则而坚固。我听着叔叔关于栏杆的说法，紧贴着塔楼一侧，在漆黑中摸索着，心在跳动。

The house of Shaws stood some five full storeys high, not counting lofts. Well, as I advanced, it seemed to me the stair grew airier and a thought more lightsome; and I was wondering what might be the cause of this change, when a second blink of the summer lightning came and went. If I did not cry out, it was because fear had me by the throat; and if I did not fall, it was more by Heaven’s mercy than my own strength. It was not only that the flash shone in on every side through breaches in the wall, so that I seemed to be clambering aloft upon an open scaffold, but the same passing brightness showed me the steps were of unequal length, and that one of my feet rested that moment within two inches of the well.
肖氏的房子大约有五层楼高，不算阁楼。嗯，随着我的前进，我觉得楼梯变得更加通风，思想也变得更加轻松。当我想知道这种变化的原因是什么时，夏季闪电的第二次闪烁来了又去。如果我没有哭出来，那是因为恐惧扼住了我的喉咙；如果我没有倒下，更多的是上天的仁慈，而不是我自己的力量。不仅是闪光通过墙上的缺口从四面八方照射进来，让我看起来像是在一个敞开的脚手架上爬到高处，而且同样的掠过的亮度让我看到台阶的长度不等，我的一个那一刻，双脚停在距离井两英寸的地方。

This was the grand stair! I thought; and with the thought, a gust of a kind of angry courage came into my heart. My uncle had sent me here, certainly to run great risks, perhaps to die. I swore I would settle that ‘perhaps,’ if I should break my neck for it; got me down upon my hands and knees; and as slowly as a snail, feeling before me every inch, and testing the solidity of every stone, I continued to ascend the stair. The darkness, by contrast with the flash, appeared to have redoubled; nor was that all, for my ears were now troubled and my mind confounded by a great stir of bats in the top part of the tower, and the foul beasts, flying downwards, sometimes beat about my face and body.
这就是大楼梯！我想;想到这里，一股愤怒的勇气涌上心头。我叔叔把我送到这里，肯定是为了冒很大的风险，也许是为了送死。我发誓，如果我为此折断脖子，我会“也许”解决这个问题。让我双手双膝跪地；我像蜗牛一样缓慢地摸索着面前的每一寸土地，检验着每一块石头的坚固性，继续登上楼梯。与闪光相比，黑暗似乎加倍了。这还不是全部，因为现在我的耳朵受到了困扰，头脑也被塔顶上的蝙蝠的剧烈骚动弄乱了，这些肮脏的野兽向下飞来，有时拍打着我的脸和身体。

The tower, I should have said, was square; and in every corner the step was made of a great stone of a different shape to join the flights. Well, I had come close to one of these turns, when, feeling forward as usual, my hand slipped upon an edge and found nothing but emptiness beyond it. The stair had been carried no higher; to set a stranger mounting it in the darkness was to send him straight to his death; and (although, thanks to the lightning and my own precautions, I was safe enough) the mere thought of the peril in which I might have stood, and the dreadful height I might have fallen from, brought out the sweat upon my body and relaxed my joints.
我应该说，这座塔是方形的；每个角落的台阶都是用不同形状的大石头制成的，以连接楼梯。好吧，我已经接近其中一个转弯了，当我像往常一样向前感觉时，我的手滑到了边缘，发现除了边缘之外什么也没有。楼梯并没有升得更高。让一个陌生人在黑暗中爬上它，就等于把他直接送死。 （虽然，多亏了闪电和我自己的预防措施，我已经足够安全了）一想到我可能面临的危险，以及我可能从可怕的高度坠落，我身上就冒出了汗水，放松了我的关节。

But I knew what I wanted now, and turned and groped my way down again, with a wonderful anger in my heart. About half-way down, the wind sprang up in a clap and shook the tower, and died again; the rain followed; and before I had reached the ground level it fell in buckets. I put out my head into the storm, and looked along towards the kitchen. The door, which I had shut behind me when I left, now stood open, and shed a little glimmer of light; and I thought I could see a figure standing in the rain, quite still, like a man hearkening. And then there came a blinding flash, which showed me my uncle plainly, just where I had fancied him to stand; and hard upon the heels of it, a great tow-row of thunder.
但我现在知道自己想要什么了，转身又摸索着往下走，心里充满了奇妙的愤怒。大约下到一半的时候，一阵风突然刮起，震动了塔楼，然后又停了。雨随之而来。在我到达地面之前，它就掉进了桶里。我把头伸进暴风雨中，朝厨房看去。我离开时关上的门现在开着，发出一点微光。我想我能看到一个人影站在雨中，一动不动，就像一个人在倾听。然后一道令人眼花缭乱的闪光出现了，我清楚地看到了我叔叔，就在我想象中他站的地方。紧随其后的是一道巨大的两排雷声。

Now, whether my uncle thought the crash to be the sound of my fall, or whether he heard in it God’s voice denouncing murder, I will leave you to guess. Certain it is, at least, that he was seized on by a kind of panic fear, and that he ran into the house and left the door open behind him. I followed as softly as I could, and, coming unheard into the kitchen, stood and watched him.
现在，我叔叔是否认为撞击声是我摔倒的声音，或者他是否在其中听到了上帝谴责谋杀的声音，我将让你猜测。至少可以肯定的是，他被一种惊慌的恐惧所占据，他跑进了房子，把门开着。我尽可能轻柔地跟着他，悄无声息地走进厨房，站着看着他。

He had found time to open the corner cupboard and bring out a great case bottle of aqua vitae, and now sat with his back towards me at the table. Ever and again he would be seized with a fit of deadly shuddering and groan aloud, and carrying the bottle to his lips, drink down the raw spirits by the mouthful.
他抽出时间打开角落里的橱柜，拿出一大箱维他水，现在背对着我坐在桌边。他时不时地会感到一阵致命的颤抖，大声呻吟，然后把酒瓶举到唇边，大口喝下原汁原味的烈酒。

I stepped forward, came close behind him where he sat, and suddenly clapping my two hands down upon his shoulders — ‘Ah!’ cried I.
我向前走去，靠近他身后他坐的地方，突然用两只手拍在他的肩膀上——“啊！”我叫道。

My uncle gave a kind of broken cry like a sheep’s bleat, flung up his arms, and tumbled to the floor like a dead man. I was somewhat shocked at this; but I had myself to look to first of all, and did not hesitate to let him lie as he had fallen. The keys were hanging in the cupboard; and it was my design to furnish myself with arms before my uncle should come again to his senses and the power of devising evil. In the cupboard were a few bottles, some apparently of medicine; a great many bills and other papers, which I should willingly enough have rummaged, had I had the time; and a few necessaries that were nothing to my purpose. Thence I turned to the chests. The first was full of meal; the second of moneybags and papers tied into sheaves; in the third, with many other things (and these for the most part clothes) I found a rusty, ugly-looking Highland dirk without the scabbard. This, then, I concealed inside my waistcoat, and turned to my uncle.
我舅舅发出一声像羊咩咩叫的断断续续的叫声，猛地举起双臂，像个死人一样倒在地上。我对此感到有些震惊；但我首先要看看自己，当他摔倒时，我毫不犹豫地让他躺了下来。钥匙挂在柜子里；我的计划是在我叔叔恢复理智和策划邪恶的力量之前为自己配备武器。柜子里有几瓶，有些显然是药；如果我有时间的话，我会很乐意翻阅大量的账单和其他文件。还有一些与我的目的无关的必需品。然后我转向箱子。第一顿饭饱了；第二顿饭饱了。第二个是捆成捆的钱袋和文件；在第三个房间里，我发现了一把生锈、丑陋的高地匕首，里面有很多其他东西（其中大部分是衣服），没有刀鞘。然后，我把这个藏在背心里，转向叔叔。

He lay as he had fallen, all huddled, with one knee up and one arm sprawling abroad; his face had a strange colour of blue, and he seemed to have ceased breathing. Fear came on me that he was dead; then I got water and dashed it in his face; and with that he seemed to come a little to himself, working his mouth and fluttering his eyelids. At last he looked up and saw me, and there came into his eyes a terror that was not of this world.
他像摔倒一样躺着，全身蜷缩着，一只膝盖向上，一只手臂向外伸展。他的脸呈现出一种奇怪的蓝色，而且似乎已经停止了呼吸。我害怕他已经死了；然后我拿水泼在他脸上。说到这里，他似乎稍微清醒了一些，他动了动嘴巴，眨动着眼皮。最后他抬起头来，看到了我，他的眼里闪现出一种不属于这个世界的恐惧。

‘Come, come,’ said I; ‘sit up.’
“来吧，来吧，”我说道。 '坐起来。'

‘Are ye alive?’ he sobbed. ‘O man, are ye alive?’
“你们还活着吗？”他抽泣着。 “哦，伙计，你还活着吗？”

‘That am I,’ said I. ‘Small thanks to you!’
“就是我，”我说，“多谢你了！”

He had begun to seek for his breath with deep sighs. ‘The blue phial,’ said he — ‘in the aumry — the blue phial.’ His breath came slower still.
他开始深深叹息，寻找自己的呼吸。 “蓝色小瓶，”他说——“在奥姆里——蓝色小瓶。”他的呼吸变得更慢了。

I ran to the cupboard, and, sure enough, found there a blue phial of medicine, with the dose written on it on a paper, and this I administered to him with what speed I might.
我跑到柜子前，果然发现了一个蓝色小瓶药，药量写在一张纸上，我以最快的速度给他服药。

‘It’s the trouble,’ said he, reviving a little; ‘I have a trouble, Davie. It’s the heart.’
“这就是麻烦所在，”他说，稍微恢复了一点。 “我有麻烦了，戴维。这是心脏。

I set him on a chair and looked at him. It is true I felt some pity for a man that looked so sick, but I was full besides of righteous anger; and I numbered over before him the points on which I wanted explanation: why he lied to me at every word; why he feared that I should leave him; why he disliked it to be hinted that he and my father were twins — ‘Is that because it is true?’ I asked; why he had given me money to which I was convinced I had no claim; and, last of all, why he had tried to kill me. He heard me all through in silence; and then, in a broken voice, begged me to let him go to bed.
我把他放在椅子上，看着他。确实，我对一个看起来如此病重的人感到有些怜悯，但除了正义的愤怒之外，我也充满了怜悯；我在他面前列出了我想要解释的要点：为什么他每一个字都对我撒谎；为什么他对我撒谎？为什么他害怕我离开他？为什么他不喜欢别人暗示他和我父亲是双胞胎——“那是因为这是真的吗？”我问道；为什么他给了我钱，而我确信我无权索取；最后，他为什么要杀我。他一直默默地听着我的讲话。然后，他用断断续续的声音求我让他去睡觉。

‘I’ll tell ye the morn,’ he said; ‘as sure as death I will.’
“明天早上我会告诉你们，”他说。 “我绝对会死。”

And so weak was he that I could do nothing but consent. I locked him into his room, however, and pocketed the, key, and then returning to the kitchen, made up such a blaze as had not shone there for many a long year, and wrapping myself in my plaid, lay down upon the chests and fell asleep.
他是如此软弱，我只能同意。然而，我把他锁在自己的房间里，把钥匙装进口袋，然后回到厨房，点燃了多年来没有照耀过的火焰，然后用格子布裹住自己，躺在箱子上。然后就睡着了。

CHAPTER V
第五章


I GO TO THE QUEEN’S FERRY
我去女王渡轮

Much rain fell in the night; and the next morning there blew a bitter wintry wind out of the north-west, driving scattered clouds. For all that, and before the sun began to peep or the last of the stars had vanished, I made my way to the side of the burn, and had a plunge in a deep whirling pool. All aglow from my bath, I sat down once more beside the fire, which I replenished, and began gravely to consider my position.
夜里下了很多雨；第二天早上，从西北吹来一阵刺骨的冬风，吹散了云层。尽管如此，在太阳开始窥视或最后一颗星星消失之前，我走到了烧伤的一侧，跳进了一个深邃的漩涡池中。洗完澡后，我浑身通红，再次坐在火边，我又给火补充了水，开始严肃地考虑我的处境。

There was now no doubt about my uncle’s enmity; there was no doubt I carried my life in my hand, and he would leave no stone unturned that he might compass my destruction. But I was young and spirited, and like most lads that have been country-bred, I had a great opinion of my shrewdness. I had come to his door no better than a beggar and little more than a child; he had met me with treachery and violence; it would be a fine consummation to take the upper hand, and drive him like a herd of sheep.
现在，我叔叔的敌意是毫无疑问的了。毫无疑问，我的生命掌握在我手中，而他会想尽一切办法来毁灭我。但我年轻而有活力，像大多数在乡村长大的小伙子一样，我对自己的精明自以为是。我来到他家门口时，就像一个乞丐，也只不过是一个孩子。他用背叛和暴力来迎接我；如果能够占据上风，像驱赶一群羊一样驱赶他，那就太好了。

I sat there nursing my knee and smiling at the fire; and I saw myself in fancy smell out his secrets one after another, and grow to be that man’s king and ruler. The warlock of Essendean, they say, had made a mirror in which men could read the future; it must have been of other stuff than burning coal; for in all the shapes and pictures that I sat and gazed at, there was never a ship, never a seaman with a hairy cap, never a big bludgeon for my silly head, or the least sign of all those tribulations that were ripe to fall on me.
我坐在那里护理膝盖，对着火微笑。我想象着自己一次又一次地嗅出他的秘密，并成长为那个人的国王和统治者。他们说，埃森丁的术士制造了一面镜子，人们可以在镜子中预知未来。它肯定不是燃烧煤炭的其他物质；因为在我坐着凝视的所有形状和图片中，从来没有一艘船，从来没有戴着毛茸茸的帽子的水手，从来没有一根大棍子敲打我愚蠢的脑袋，也没有任何即将降临的磨难的迹象。包在我身上。

Presently, all swollen with conceit, I went up-stairs and gave my prisoner his liberty. He gave me good-morning civilly; and I gave the same to him, smiling down upon him, from the heights of my sufficiency. Soon we were set to breakfast, as it might have been the day before.
不久，我满怀自负地走上楼，释放了我的囚犯。他礼貌地向我道早安；我也把同样的东西给了他，从我满足的高度向他微笑。很快我们就开始吃早餐了，就像前一天一样。

‘Well, sir,’ said I, with a jeering tone, ‘have you nothing more to say to me?’ And then, as he made no articulate reply, ‘It will be time, I think, to understand each other,’ I continued. ‘You took me for a country Johnnie Raw, with no more mother-wit or courage than a porridge-stick. I took you for a good man, or no worse than others at the least. It seems we were both wrong. What cause you have to fear me, to cheat me, and to attempt my life—‘
“好吧，先生，”我用一种嘲笑的语气说道，“你还有什么要对我说的吗？”然后，由于他没有明确回答，“我想，是时候互相理解了，”我继续说道。 “你把我当成一个乡村约翰尼·罗，没有比一根粥棒更多的母亲智慧和勇气。我把你当成一个好人，至少不比别人差。看来我们都错了。是什么原因让你不得不畏惧我、欺骗我、企图夺取我的性命——”

He murmured something about a jest, and that he liked a bit of fun; and then, seeing me smile, changed his tone, and assured me he would make all clear as soon as we had breakfasted. I saw by his face that he had no lie ready for me, though he was hard at work preparing one; and I think I was about to tell him so, when we were interrupted by a knocking at the door.
他低声说了句笑话，说他喜欢开玩笑。然后，看到我微笑，他改变了语气，并向我保证，一旦我们吃完早餐，他就会把一切弄清楚。我从他的脸上看出，他并没有为我准备好谎言，尽管他正在努力准备谎言；但他并没有为我准备好谎言。我想我正要告诉他这一点，突然有人敲门声打断了我们的谈话。

Bidding my uncle sit where he was, I went to open it, and found on the doorstep a half-grown boy in sea-clothes. He had no sooner seen me than he began to dance some steps of the sea-hornpipe (which I had never before heard of far less seen), snapping his fingers in the air and footing it right cleverly. For all that, he was blue with the cold; and there was something in his face, a look between tears and laughter, that was highly pathetic and consisted ill with this gaiety of manner.
我吩咐叔叔坐在原地，我去打开门，发现门口台阶上有一个穿着海服的半大男孩。他一看到我，就开始跳海角笛的舞步（我以前从未听说过，见过的次数更少），手指在空中打响指，巧妙地站稳脚跟。尽管如此，他还是冻得脸色发青。他的脸上有一种介于泪水和笑声之间的神情，非常可怜，与这种快乐的举止不相称。

‘What cheer, mate?’ says he, with a cracked voice.
“欢呼什么，伙计？”他声音沙哑地说。

I asked him soberly to name his pleasure.
我严肃地请他说出他的乐趣。

‘O, pleasure!’ says he; and then began to sing:
“噢，很高兴！”他说道。然后开始唱：

‘For it’s my delight, of a shiny night,
“因为这是我的喜悦，一个闪亮的夜晚，

In the season of the year.’
在一年中的季节。

‘Well,’ said I, ‘if you have no business at all, I will even be so unmannerly as to shut you out.’
“好吧，”我说，“如果你根本没有什么事，我什至会无礼地把你拒之门外。”

‘Stay, brother!’ he cried. ‘Have you no fun about you? or do you want to get me thrashed? I’ve brought a letter from old Heasyoasy to Mr. Belflower.’ He showed me a letter as he spoke. ‘And I say, mate,’ he added, ‘I’m mortal hungry.’
“留下来，兄弟！”他喊道。 ‘你没有乐趣吗？或者你想打败我吗？我给贝尔弗劳尔先生带来了老希斯奥西写的一封信。”他边说边给我看了一封信。 “我说，伙计，”他补充道，“我饿极了。”

‘Well,’ said I, ‘come into the house, and you shall have a bite if I go empty for it.’
“好吧，”我说，“进屋吧，如果我空空如也，你也可以吃点东西。”

With that I brought him in and set him down to my own place, where he fell-to greedily on the remains of breakfast, winking to me between whiles, and making many faces, which I think the poor soul considered manly. Meanwhile, my uncle had read the letter and sat thinking; then, suddenly, he got to his feet with a great air of liveliness, and pulled me apart into the farthest corner of the room.
说完，我带他进来，把他放到我自己的地方，他贪婪地吃着剩下的早餐，时不时地向我眨眼，做鬼脸，我认为这个可怜的灵魂认为这很有男子气概。与此同时，我叔叔读了这封信，坐下来思考；然后，突然，他神气十足地站了起来，把我拉到房间最远的角落里。

‘Read that,’ said he, and put the letter in my hand.
“读一下，”他说，然后把信放在我手里。

Here it is, lying before me as I write:
当我写作时，它就摆在我面前：

‘The Hawes Inn, at the Queen’s Ferry.
“霍伊斯旅馆，位于女王渡口。

‘Sir, — I lie here with my hawser up and down, and send my cabin-boy to informe. If you have any further commands for over-seas, to-day will be the last occasion, as the wind will serve us well out of the firth. I will not seek to deny that I have had crosses with your doer,[4] Mr. Rankeillor; of which, if not speedily redd up, you may looke to see some losses follow. I have drawn a bill upon you, as per margin, and am, sir, your most obedt., humble servant,
“先生，——我躺在这里，我的缆绳上下翻动，并派我的船童去通知。如果您对海外有任何进一步的命令，今天将是最后一次，因为从海湾吹来的风对我们来说会很好。我不会否认我与你的凶手有过交集，[4] 兰基勒先生；其中，如果不迅速上涨，您可能会看到一些损失随之而来。我已按保证金向您开具了一张账单，先生，我是您最尊敬的仆人，

‘ELIAS HOSEASON.’
“埃利亚斯·霍西森。”

[4] Agent.
[4] 代理．

‘You see, Davie,’ resumed my uncle, as soon as he saw that I had done, ‘I have a venture with this man Hoseason, the captain of a trading brig, the Covenant, of Dysart. Now, if you and me was to walk over with yon lad, I could see the captain at the Hawes, or maybe on board the Covenant if there was papers to be signed; and so far from a loss of time, we can jog on to the lawyer, Mr. Rankeillor’s. After a’ that’s come and gone, ye would be swier[5] to believe me upon my naked word; but ye’ll believe Rankeillor. He’s factor to half the gentry in these parts; an auld man, forby: highly respeckit, and he kenned your father.’
“你看，戴维，”我叔叔一看到我这样做，就继续说道，“我和霍塞森这个人有一项冒险，他是戴萨特星盟号贸易双桅船的船长。现在，如果你和我和你小伙子一起走过去，我可以看到霍斯号的船长，或者如果有需要签署的文件的话，也许可以在盟约号上看到；为了不浪费时间，我们可以慢跑去找兰基勒先生的律师。在事情发生又过去之后，你们会相信我的赤裸裸的话[5]；但你会相信兰基勒。他是这些地区一半上流人士的重要因素。福比，一个善良的人：非常受人尊敬，他杀死了你的父亲。

[5] Unwilling.
[5]不愿意。

I stood awhile and thought. I was going to some place of shipping, which was doubtless populous, and where my uncle durst attempt no violence, and, indeed, even the society of the cabin-boy so far protected me. Once there, I believed I could force on the visit to the lawyer, even if my uncle were now insincere in proposing it; and, perhaps, in the bottom of my heart, I wished a nearer view of the sea and ships. You are to remember I had lived all my life in the inland hills, and just two days before had my first sight of the firth lying like a blue floor, and the sailed ships moving on the face of it, no bigger than toys. One thing with another, I made up my mind.
我站了一会儿想了想。我要去某个航运地点，那里无疑是人口稠密的地方，在那里我的叔叔不敢尝试任何暴力，而且事实上，到目前为止，甚至船舱男孩的社会也保护了我。到了那里，我相信我可以强行去见律师，即使我叔叔现在提出的建议并不真诚；也许，在我内心深处，我希望能更近距离地观察大海和船只。你要记住，我一生都住在内陆山上，就在两天前，我第一次看到像蓝色地板一样的海湾，以及在其表面移动的帆船，没有玩具那么大。一件事又一件事，我下定了决心。

‘Very well,’ says I, ‘let us go to the Ferry.’
“很好，”我说，“我们去渡轮吧。”

My uncle got into his hat and coat, and buckled an old rusty cutlass on; and then we trod the fire out, locked the door, and set forth upon our walk.
我叔叔戴上帽子，穿上外套，扣上一把生锈的旧弯刀。然后我们把火踩灭，锁上门，继续散步。

The wind, being in that cold quarter the north-west, blew nearly in our faces as we went. It was the month of June; the grass was all white with daisies, and the trees with blossom; but, to judge by our blue nails and aching wrists, the time might have been winter and the whiteness a December frost.
我们走的时候，风在西北那个寒冷的地区，几乎吹到我们的脸上。那是六月。草地上长满了雏菊，树木洁白，鲜花盛开。但是，从我们蓝色的指甲和酸痛的手腕来看，当时可能是冬天，而白色的天气可能是十二月的霜冻。

Uncle Ebenezer trudged in the ditch, jogging from side to side like an old ploughman coming home from work. He never said a word the whole way; and I was thrown for talk on the cabin-boy. He told me his name was Ransome, and that he had followed the sea since he was nine, but could not say how old he was, as he had lost his reckoning. He showed me tattoo marks, baring his breast in the teeth of the wind and in spite of my remonstrances, for I thought it was enough to kill him; he swore horribly whenever he remembered, but more like a silly schoolboy than a man; and boasted of many wild and bad things that he had done: stealthy thefts, false accusations, ay, and even murder; but all with such a dearth of likelihood in the details, and such a weak and crazy swagger in the delivery, as disposed me rather to pity than to believe him.
埃比尼泽叔叔在沟里艰难地走着，从一边慢跑到另一边，就像一个老农夫下班回家一样。一路上他一句话也没说。我因谈论船舱男孩而被抛弃。他告诉我他的名字叫兰瑟姆，他从九岁起就开始跟随大海，但无法说出他的年龄，因为他已经忘记了。他向我展示了纹身痕迹，不顾我的抗议，在风中裸露着他的胸部，因为我认为这足以杀死他；每当他想起来的时候，他就会咒骂得很可怕，但更像是一个愚蠢的小学生，而不是一个男人。并吹嘘他所做的许多疯狂和坏事：偷窃，诬告，哎，甚至谋杀；但所有细节都缺乏可能性，而且表达方式又软弱又疯狂，让我宁愿怜悯，也不愿相信他。

I asked him of the brig (which he declared was the finest ship that sailed) and of Captain Hoseason, in whose praises he was equally loud. Heasyoasy (for so he still named the skipper) was a man, by his account, that minded for nothing either in heaven or earth; one that, as people said, would ‘crack on all sail into the day of judgment;’ rough, fierce, unscrupulous, and brutal; and all this my poor cabin-boy had taught himself to admire as something seamanlike and manly. He would only admit one flaw in his idol. ‘He ain’t no seaman,’ he admitted. ‘That’s Mr. Shuan that navigates the brig; he’s the finest seaman in the trade, only for drink; and I tell you I believe it! Why, look’ere;’ and turning down his stocking he showed me a great, raw, red wound that made my blood run cold. ‘He done that — Mr. Shuan done it,’ he said, with an air of pride.
我向他询问了双桅船（他宣称这是航行中最好的船）和霍西森船长，他同样大声赞扬了霍西森船长。赫西奥西（Heasyoas）（他仍以此命名船长），据他说，是一个对天上或地上一无所知的人。正如人们所说，它将“在审判之日扬帆起航”；粗暴、凶猛、肆无忌惮、残酷；我可怜的船童已经教会自己将这一切视为海员般的男子气概。他只承认自己偶像的一个缺点。 “他不是海员，”他承认。 “那是驾驶双桅船的舒安先生；他是业内最优秀的海员，只是为了喝酒；我告诉你我相信！哎呀，瞧瞧。”他把袜子脱下来，给我看了一个巨大的、原始的、红色的伤口，让我的血液都变冷了。 “他做到了——舒安先生做到了，”他自豪地说。

‘What!’ I cried, ‘do you take such savage usage at his hands? Why, you are no slave, to be so handled!’
“什么！”我喊道，“你能接受他这样野蛮地使用他的手吗？”哎呀，你不是奴隶，会受到这样的对待！

‘No,’ said the poor moon-calf, changing his tune at once, ‘and so he’ll find. See’ere;’ and he showed me a great case-knife, which he told me was stolen. ‘O,’ says he, ‘let me see him, try; I dare him to; I’ll do for him! O, he ain’t the first!’ And he confirmed it with a poor, silly, ugly oath.
“不，”可怜的月亮小牛立刻改变了语调，“所以他会找到的。”瞧，他给我看了一把很棒的小刀，他告诉我这把刀是偷来的。 “哦，”他说，“让我看看他，试试吧；我敢说他敢这么做；我会为他做的！哦，他不是第一个！”他用一个可怜的、愚蠢的、丑陋的誓言证实了这一点。

I have never felt such pity for any one in this wide world as I felt for that half-witted creature, and it began to come over me that the brig Covenant (for all her pious name) was little better than a hell upon the seas.
我从来没有像对这个愚蠢的生物那样对这个广阔的世界上的任何人感到如此怜悯，我开始意识到双桅船圣约号（尽管有她虔诚的名字）比海上地狱好不了多少。

‘Have you no friends?’ said I.
“你没有朋友吗？”我说。

He said he had a father in some English seaport, I forget which.
他说他的父亲住在英国的某个海港，我忘了是哪一个。

‘He was a fine man, too,’ he said, ‘but he’s dead.’
“他也是个好人，”他说，“但他已经死了。”

‘In Heaven’s name,’ cried I, ‘can you find no reputable life on shore?’
“看在上帝的份上，”我喊道，“你在岸上找不到有信誉的生命吗？”

‘O, no,’ says he, winking and looking very sly, ‘they would put me to a trade. I know a trick worth two of that, I do!’
“哦，不，”他眨着眼睛说道，看上去很狡猾，“他们会让我做一笔交易。”我知道一个值得两个的技巧，我知道！

I asked him what trade could be so dreadful as the one he followed, where he ran the continual peril of his life, not alone from wind and sea, but by the horrid cruelty of those who were his masters. He said it was very true; and then began to praise the life, and tell what a pleasure it was to get on shore with money in his pocket, and spend it like a man, and buy apples, and swagger, and surprise what he called stick-in-the-mud boys. ‘And then it’s not all as bad as that,’ says he; ‘there’s worse off than me: there’s the twenty-pounders. O, laws! you should see them taking on. Why, I’ve seen a man as old as you, I dessay’ — (to him I seemed old)— ‘ah, and he had a beard, too — well, and as soon as we cleared out of the river, and he had the drug out of his head — my! how he cried and carried on! I made a fine fool of him, I tell you! And then there’s little uns, too: oh, little by me! I tell you, I keep them in order. When we carry little uns, I have a rope’s end of my own to wollop’em.’ And so he ran on, until it came in on me what he meant by twenty-pounders were those unhappy criminals who were sent over-seas to slavery in North America, or the still more unhappy innocents who were kidnapped or trepanned (as the word went) for private interest or vengeance.
我问他，还有什么行业比他所从事的行业更可怕，他在那里不断冒着生命危险，不仅来自风和海，而且来自他主人的可怕残忍。他说这是千真万确的。然后开始赞美生活，讲述口袋里揣着钱上岸，像个男人一样花钱，买苹果，大摇大摆，惊喜他所说的“坚持下去”是多么的快乐。泥巴男孩。 “然后事情就没有那么糟糕了，”他说。 “还有比我更糟糕的：那是二十磅炮。”噢，法律！你应该看到他们的表现。哎呀，我见过一个和你一样老的人，我说”——（对他来说，我似乎老了）——“啊，他也留着胡子——好吧，我们一离开河，然后他脑子里的毒品已经被清除了——天哪！他哭得多么伤心，又继续坚持下去！我告诉你，我真是愚弄了他！然后还有一些小uns：哦，我身边的小家伙！我告诉你，我把它们整理得井井有条。当我们带着小孩子的时候，我自己有一根绳子末端可以狼吞虎咽。”于是他继续跑，直到我意识到他所说的二十磅炮是指那些被派往海外的不幸的罪犯。北美的奴隶制，或者是为了私人利益或复仇而被绑架或环钻（正如人们所说的那样）的更不幸的无辜者。

Just then we came to the top of the hill, and looked down on the Ferry and the Hope. The Firth of Forth (as is very well known) narrows at this point to the width of a good-sized river, which makes a convenient ferry going north, and turns the upper reach into a landlocked haven for all manner of ships. Right in the midst of the narrows lies an islet with some ruins; on the south shore they have built a pier for the service of the Ferry; and at the end of the pier, on the other side of the road, and backed against a pretty garden of holly-trees and hawthorns, I could see the building which they called the Hawes Inn.
就在这时，我们来到了山顶，俯瞰着渡口和希望号。福斯湾（众所周知）此时变窄为一条大河的宽度，这使得渡口可以方便地向北航行，并将上游河段变成了各种船只的内陆港口。狭窄的正中央有一座小岛，岛上有一些废墟。他们在南岸建造了一个码头，为渡轮服务。在码头的尽头，在路的另一边，背靠一个长满冬青树和山楂树的美丽花园，我可以看到他们称之为霍伊斯旅馆的建筑。

The town of Queensferry lies farther west, and the neighbourhood of the inn looked pretty lonely at that time of day, for the boat had just gone north with passengers. A skiff, however, lay beside the pier, with some seamen sleeping on the thwarts; this, as Ransome told me, was the brig’s boat waiting for the captain; and about half a mile off, and all alone in the anchorage, he showed me the Covenant herself. There was a sea-going bustle on board; yards were swinging into place; and as the wind blew from that quarter, I could hear the song of the sailors as they pulled upon the ropes. After all I had listened to upon the way, I looked at that ship with an extreme abhorrence; and from the bottom of my heart I pitied all poor souls that were condemned to sail in her.
昆斯费里镇位于更西边，此时旅馆附近显得相当孤独，因为船刚刚载着乘客向北行驶。然而，码头边停着一艘小船，一些海员睡在横座板上。正如兰索姆告诉我的，这是等待船长的双桅船的船。大约半英里外，他独自一人在锚地里，向我展示了圣约者号。船上一片喧闹。院子正在摆动到位；当风从那一边吹来时，我能听到水手们拉动绳索时的歌声。一路上听完这一切后，我用极其厌恶的眼光看着那艘船。我从心底里怜悯所有注定要在她身上航行的可怜的灵魂。

We had all three pulled up on the brow of the hill; and now I marched across the road and addressed my uncle. ‘I think it right to tell you, sir.’ says I, ‘there’s nothing that will bring me on board that Covenant.’
我们把三个人都停在了山顶上。现在我走过马路，向叔叔讲话。 “我认为告诉你是正确的，先生。”我说，“没有什么能让我加入那个圣约。”

He seemed to waken from a dream. ‘Eh?’ he said. ‘What’s that?’
他仿佛从梦中惊醒。 “呃？”他说。 '那是什么？'

I told him over again.
我又跟他说了一遍。

‘Well, well,’ he said, ‘we’ll have to please ye, I suppose. But what are we standing here for? It’s perishing cold; and if I’m no mistaken, they’re busking the Covenant for sea.’
“好吧，好吧，”他说，“我想我们必须取悦你们。”但我们站在这里是为了什么？寒冷即将来临；如果我没记错的话，他们正在为海上表演《星盟》。

CHAPTER VI
第六章


WHAT BEFELL AT THE QUEEN’S FERRY
女王渡轮发生了什么

As soon as we came to the inn, Ransome led us up the stair to a small room, with a bed in it, and heated like an oven by a great fire of coal. At a table hard by the chimney, a tall, dark, sober-looking man sat writing. In spite of the heat of the room, he wore a thick sea-jacket, buttoned to the neck, and a tall hairy cap drawn down over his ears; yet I never saw any man, not even a judge upon the bench, look cooler, or more studious and self-possessed, than this ship-captain.
我们一到客栈，兰瑟姆就带我们上楼梯，来到一个小房间，里面有一张床，煤火像烤箱一样加热。紧靠烟囱的一张桌子旁，坐着一个身材高大、皮肤黝黑、神色清醒的男人正在写字。尽管房间里很热，他还是穿着一件厚厚的海夹克，扣子一直扣到脖子上，一顶毛茸茸的高帽子拉下来遮住了耳朵。然而，我从未见过任何人，甚至法官席上的法官，比这位船长看起来更冷静、更勤奋、更沉着。

He got to his feet at once, and coming forward, offered his large hand to Ebenezer. ‘I am proud to see you, Mr. Balfour,’ said he, in a fine deep voice, ‘and glad that ye are here in time. The wind’s fair, and the tide upon the turn; we’ll see the old coal-bucket burning on the Isle of May before to-night.’
他立刻站了起来，向前走去，向埃比尼泽伸出了他的大手。 “我很自豪见到你，贝尔福先生，”他用低沉的声音说道，“很高兴你及时赶到。”风平浪静，潮水翻腾；今晚之前我们就会看到五月岛的旧煤桶在燃烧。”

‘Captain Hoseason,’ returned my uncle, ‘you keep your room unco hot.’
“霍西森队长，”我叔叔回答道，“你让你的房间不那么热。”

‘It’s a habit I have, Mr. Balfour,’ said the skipper. ‘I’m a cold-rife man by my nature; I have a cold blood, sir. There’s neither fur, nor flannel — no, sir, nor hot rum, will warm up what they call the temperature. Sir, it’s the same with most men that have been carbonadoed, as they call it, in the tropic seas.’
“这是我的习惯，贝尔福先生，”船长说。 “我的本性是一个冷漠的人；我的心很冷，先生。既没有毛皮，也没有法兰绒——不，先生，也没有热朗姆酒，都不会加热他们所说的温度。先生，这与大多数在热带海洋中被称为“黑炭”的人一样。

‘Well, well, captain,’ replied my uncle, ‘we must all be the way we’re made.’
“好吧，好吧，船长，”叔叔回答道，“我们都必须成为我们的样子。”

But it chanced that this fancy of the captain’s had a great share in my misfortunes. For though I had promised myself not to let my kinsman out of sight, I was both so impatient for a nearer look of the sea, and so sickened by the closeness of the room, that when he told me to ‘run down-stairs and play myself awhile,’ I was fool enough to take him at his word.
但碰巧，船长的这种幻想与我的不幸有很大的关系。因为虽然我已经向自己保证不会让我的亲戚离开我的视线，但我既迫不及待地想要近距离看看大海，又对房间的封闭感到恶心，以至于当他告诉我“跑下楼去”时，我自己玩一会儿吧。”我傻乎乎地相信了他的话。

Away I went, therefore, leaving the two men sitting down to a bottle and a great mass of papers; and crossing the road in front of the inn, walked down upon the beach. With the wind in that quarter, only little wavelets, not much bigger than I had seen upon a lake, beat upon the shore. But the weeds were new to me — some green, some brown and long, and some with little bladders that crackled between my fingers. Even so far up the firth, the smell of the sea-water was exceedingly salt and stirring; the Covenant, besides, was beginning to shake out her sails, which hung upon the yards in clusters; and the spirit of all that I beheld put me in thoughts of far voyages and foreign places.
因此，我离开了，留下两个人坐在一瓶酒和一大堆文件旁。穿过旅馆门前的马路，走到海滩上。那个季度有风，只有小波浪拍打着岸边，比我在湖上看到的大不了多少。但这些杂草对我来说是新鲜的——有些是绿色的，有些是棕色的，很长，有些还长着小囊，在我的手指间发出噼啪作响的声音。即使在海湾深处，海水的味道仍然非常咸且令人兴奋。此外，圣约人号也开始摇动她的帆，帆成簇地悬挂在帆桁上。我所看到的一切的精神让我想起了遥远的航行和异国他乡。

I looked, too, at the seamen with the skiff — big brown fellows, some in shirts, some with jackets, some with coloured handkerchiefs about their throats, one with a brace of pistols stuck into his pockets, two or three with knotty bludgeons, and all with their case-knives. I passed the time of day with one that looked less desperate than his fellows, and asked him of the sailing of the brig. He said they would get under way as soon as the ebb set, and expressed his gladness to be out of a port where there were no taverns and fiddlers; but all with such horrifying oaths, that I made haste to get away from him.
我也看着小船里的海员——棕色的大个子，有的穿衬衫，有的穿夹克，有的脖子上挂着彩色手帕，一个口袋里插着一把手枪，两三个拿着多节的棍子，所有人都带着箱刀。我和一个看起来不像他的同伴那么绝望的人一起度过了一天中的时光，并向他询问了双桅船的航行情况。他说一旦退潮他们就会出发，并表示他很高兴离开了一个没有酒馆和小提琴手的港口。但所有这些都伴随着如此可怕的誓言，以至于我赶紧逃离他。

This threw me back on Ransome, who seemed the least wicked of that gang, and who soon came out of the inn and ran to me, crying for a bowl of punch. I told him I would give him no such thing, for neither he nor I was of an age for such indulgences. ‘But a glass of ale you may have, and welcome,’ said I. He mopped and mowed at me, and called me names; but he was glad to get the ale, for all that; and presently we were set down at a table in the front room of the inn, and both eating and drinking with a good appetite.
这让我又回到了兰塞姆身上，他似乎是这帮人中最不邪恶的一个，很快他就从旅馆里出来，跑到我身边，哭着要一碗潘趣酒。我告诉他我不会给他这样的东西，因为他和我都没有达到这样的年龄。 “不过，你可以喝一杯麦芽酒，欢迎。”我说。他对着我拖拖拉拉，骂我。但尽管如此，他还是很高兴能喝到啤酒。不一会儿，我们就在客栈前厅的一张桌子旁坐下，吃得津津有味。

Here it occurred to me that, as the landlord was a man of that county, I might do well to make a friend of him. I offered him a share, as was much the custom in those days; but he was far too great a man to sit with such poor customers as Ransome and myself, and he was leaving the room, when I called him back to ask if he knew Mr. Rankeillor.
这时我想到，房东是那个县的人，我不妨和他交个朋友。我按照当时的惯例，给了他一份。但他是一个伟大的人，无法与像兰塞姆和我这样的可怜的顾客坐在一起，当他离开房间时，我打电话给他，问他是否认识兰基勒先生。

‘Hoot, ay,’ says he, ‘and a very honest man. And, O, by-the-by,’ says he, ‘was it you that came in with Ebenezer?’ And when I had told him yes, ‘Ye’ll be no friend of his?’ he asked, meaning, in the Scottish way, that I would be no relative.
“哎哟，哎呀，”他说，“而且是个非常诚实的人。”而且，哦，顺便说一句，”他说，“是你和埃比尼泽一起进来的吗？”当我告诉他是的，“你不会成为他的朋友吗？”他问，意思是，在按照苏格兰的方式，我不会是亲戚。

I told him no, none.
我告诉他不，没有。

‘I thought not,’ said he, ‘and yet ye have a kind of gliff[6] of Mr. Alexander.’
“我不这么认为，”他说，“但你们对亚历山大先生有一种恍然大悟[6]的感觉。”

[6]Look.
[6]看。

I said it seemed that Ebenezer was ill-seen in the country.
我说埃比尼泽在国内似乎不太受欢迎。

‘Nae doubt,’ said the landlord. ‘He’s a wicked auld man, and there’s many would like to see him girning in the tow[7]. Jennet Clouston and mony mair that he has harried out of house and hame. And yet he was ance a fine young fellow, too. But that was before the sough[8] gaed abroad about Mr. Alexander, that was like the death of him.’
“毫无疑问，”房东说。 “他是一个邪恶的老人，很多人都想看到他在拖车里[7]。珍妮特·克劳斯顿和金钱被他赶出了家门。但他也是一个优秀的年轻人。但那是在亚历山大先生的呼声[8]传出之前，那就像他的死一样。

[7]Rope. [8]Report.
[7]绳索。 [8]报告。

‘And what was it?’ I asked.
“那是什么？”我问道。

‘Ou, just that he had killed him,’ said the landlord. ‘Did ye never hear that?’
“哦，就是他杀了他。”店主说道。 “你们从来没有听说过吗？”

‘And what would he kill him for?’ said I.
“那他为什么要杀他呢？”我问道。

‘And what for, but just to get the place,’ said he.
“那又是为了什么，只是为了得到这个地方，”他说。

‘The place?’ said I. ‘The Shaws?’
“那个地方？”我说，“邵氏？”

‘Nae other place that I ken,’ said he.
“我不知道有什么地方，”他说。

‘Ay, man?’ said I. ‘Is that so? Was my — was Alexander the eldest son?’
“嗯，伙计？”我说，“是这样吗？亚历山大是我的长子吗？

‘Deed was he,’ said the landlord. ‘What else would he have killed him for?’
“确实是他，”房东说。 “他还要杀了他还有什么理由呢？”

And with that he went away, as he had been impatient to do from the beginning.
说完他就走了，正如他从一开始就迫不及待的那样。

Of course, I had guessed it a long while ago; but it is one thing to guess, another to know; and I sat stunned with my good fortune, and could scarce grow to believe that the same poor lad who had trudged in the dust from Ettrick Forest not two days ago, was now one of the rich of the earth, and had a house and broad lands, and might mount his horse tomorrow. All these pleasant things, and a thousand others, crowded into my mind, as I sat staring before me out of the inn window, and paying no heed to what I saw; only I remember that my eye lighted on Captain Hoseason down on the pier among his seamen, and speaking with some authority. And presently he came marching back towards the house, with no mark of a sailor’s clumsiness, but carrying his fine, tall figure with a manly bearing, and still with the same sober, grave expression on his face. I wondered if it was possible that Ransome’s stories could be true, and half disbelieved them; they fitted so ill with the man’s looks. But indeed, he was neither so good as I supposed him, nor quite so bad as Ransome did; for, in fact, he was two men, and left the better one behind as soon as he set foot on board his vessel.
当然，我早就猜到了；但猜测是一回事，了解又是另一回事。我坐在那儿，对自己的好运气感到震惊，简直不敢相信，两天前在埃特里克森林的尘土中艰难跋涉的那个可怜的小伙子，现在是地球上的富人之一，拥有一所房子和宽敞的房子。着陆，明天可能会骑马。当我坐在那里，凝视着旅店窗外的前方时，所有这些令人愉快的事情以及其他上千件事都涌入了我的脑海，对我所看到的一切毫不在意。我只记得我的目光落在了码头上的霍西森船长和他的水手们身上，他正在以某种权威的方式说话。不久，他大步朝房子走去，没有水手的笨手笨脚的痕迹，但他身材高大，仪表堂堂，脸上仍然带着同样清醒、严肃的表情。我想知道兰塞姆的故事是否有可能是真的，我半信半疑。它们与这个男人的相貌太不相配了。但事实上，他既不像我想象的那么好，也不像兰瑟姆想象的那么坏。因为事实上，他是两个人，一踏上他的船，就把更好的一个抛在了后面。

The next thing, I heard my uncle calling me, and found the pair in the road together. It was the captain who addressed me, and that with an air (very flattering to a young lad) of grave equality.
接下来，我听到叔叔叫我，发现他们俩一起在路上。是船长向我讲话，语气中充满了严肃的平等（对一个年轻小伙子来说这是非常讨人喜欢的）。

‘Sir,’ said he, ‘Mr. Balfour tells me great things of you; and for my own part, I like your looks. I wish I was for longer here, that we might make the better friends; but we’ll make the most of what we have. Ye shall come on board my brig for half an hour, till the ebb sets, and drink a bowl with me.’
“先生，”他说，“先生。”贝尔福告诉我关于你的伟大事迹；就我个人而言，我喜欢你的外表。我希望我能在这里待更长时间，这样我们就可以结交更好的朋友；但我们会充分利用我们所拥有的。你们将在我的双桅船上待半小时，直到落潮，和我一起喝一碗。

Now, I longed to see the inside of a ship more than words can tell; but I was not going to put myself in jeopardy, and I told him my uncle and I had an appointment with a lawyer.
现在，我对船的内部的渴望是无法用言语表达的；但我不想让自己陷入危险，我告诉他我和叔叔约了一位律师。

‘Ay, ay,’ said he, ‘he passed me word of that. But, ye see, the boat’ll set ye ashore at the town pier, and that’s but a penny stonecast from Rankeillor’s house.’ And here he suddenly leaned down and whispered in my ear: ‘Take care of the old tod;[9] he means mischief. Come aboard till I can get a word with ye.’ And then, passing his arm through mine, he continued aloud, as he set off towards his boat: ‘But, come, what can I bring ye from the Carolinas? Any friend of Mr. Balfour’s can command. A roll of tobacco? Indian feather-work? a skin of a wild beast? a stone pipe? the mocking-bird that mews for all the world like a cat? the cardinal bird that is as red as blood? — take your pick and say your pleasure.’
“哎呀，哎呀，”他说，“他向我传达了这件事。”但是，你看，船会让你在镇码头上岸，而这只是兰基勒家的一便士石铸物。”这时他突然弯下腰，在我耳边低声说：“照顾好老托德；[9” ] 他的意思是恶作剧。上船吧，我能和你们说句话。”然后，他挽着我的手臂，向他的船出发，继续大声说道：“但是，来吧，我能从卡罗莱纳州给你们带来什么？贝尔福先生的任何朋友都可以指挥。一卷烟草？印度羽毛制品？野兽的皮？石管？像猫一样向全世界喵喵叫的反舌鸟？红如血的红衣主教鸟？ - 选择你的选择并说出你的荣幸。

[9] Fox.
[9] 福克斯.

By this time we were at the boat-side, and he was handing me in. I did not dream of hanging back; I thought (the poor fool!) that I had found a good friend and helper, and I was rejoiced to see the ship. As soon as we were all set in our places, the boat was thrust off from the pier and began to move over the waters: and what with my pleasure in this new movement and my surprise at our low position, and the appearance of the shores, and the growing bigness of the brig as we drew near to it, I could hardly understand what the captain said, and must have answered him at random.
这时我们已经到了船边，他正在把我交给我。我以为（可怜的傻瓜！）我找到了一个好朋友和好帮手，我很高兴看到这艘船。我们一就位，船就被推离码头，开始在水面上移动：我对这个新的运动感到高兴，对我们的低位置和海岸的外观感到惊讶当我们接近双桅船时，双桅船变得越来越大，我几乎听不懂船长在说什么，而且一定是随意回答他的。

As soon as we were alongside (where I sat fairly gaping at the ship’s height, the strong humming of the tide against its sides, and the pleasant cries of the seamen at their work) Hoseason, declaring that he and I must be the first aboard, ordered a tackle to be sent down from the main-yard. In this I was whipped into the air and set down again on the deck, where the captain stood ready waiting for me, and instantly slipped back his arm under mine. There I stood some while, a little dizzy with the unsteadiness of all around me, perhaps a little afraid, and yet vastly pleased with these strange sights; the captain meanwhile pointing out the strangest, and telling me their names and uses.
当我们靠岸时（我坐在那里，目瞪口呆地看着船的高度，潮水拍打船舷的强烈嗡嗡声，以及海员们在工作时发出的愉快的叫喊声）霍西森宣布我和他必须是第一个上船的人，命令从主院派出铲车。就这样，我被鞭打到了空中，然后又回到了甲板上，船长已经准备好在那里等我了，然后他立即把他的手臂滑回了我的下面。我在那里站了一会儿，周围的不稳定让我有点头晕，也许有点害怕，但对这些奇怪的景象感到非常满意。船长同时指出了最奇怪的，并告诉我它们的名字和用途。

‘But where is my uncle?’ said I suddenly.
“可是我叔叔在哪儿呢？”我突然问道。

‘Ay,’ said Hoseason, with a sudden grimness, ‘that’s the point.’
“哎呀，”霍西森突然严肃地说，“这就是重点。”

I felt I was lost. With all my strength, I plucked myself clear of him and ran to the bulwarks. Sure enough, there was the boat pulling for the town, with my uncle sitting in the stern. I gave a piercing cry — ‘Help, help! Murder!’ — so that both sides of the anchorage rang with it, and my uncle turned round where he was sitting, and showed me a face full of cruelty and terror.
我觉得我迷路了。我用尽全力，挣脱了他的束缚，跑向舷墙。果然，船正驶向镇上，叔叔坐在船尾。我发出撕心裂肺的呼喊——‘救命，救命！谋杀！”——这样的声音响彻了锚地的两侧，我叔叔转过身来，向我展示了一张充满残忍和恐怖的脸。

It was the last I saw. Already strong hands had been plucking me back from the ship’s side; and now a thunderbolt seemed to strike me; I saw a great flash of fire, and fell senseless.
这是我最后一次见到。已经有一双有力的手把我从船舷上拉了回来。现在，一道雷霆似乎向我袭来；我看到一道巨大的火光，然后就失去了知觉。

CHAPTER VII
第七章


I GO TO SEA IN THE BRIG ‘COVENANT’ OF DYSART
我乘坐 DYSART 的“盟约”双桅船出海

I came to myself in darkness, in great pain, bound hand and foot, and deafened by many unfamiliar noises. There sounded in my ears a roaring of water as of a huge mill-dam, the thrashing of heavy sprays, the thundering of the sails, and the shrill cries of seamen. The whole world now heaved giddily up, and now rushed giddily downward; and so sick and hurt was I in body, and my mind so much confounded, that it took me a long while, chasing my thoughts up and down, and ever stunned again by a fresh stab of pain, to realise that I must be lying somewhere bound in the belly of that unlucky ship, and that the wind must have strengthened to a gale. With the clear perception of my plight, there fell upon me a blackness of despair, a horror of remorse at my own folly, and a passion of anger at my uncle, that once more bereft me of my senses.
我在黑暗中苏醒过来，痛苦万分，手脚都被绑着，许多陌生的声音震耳欲聋。我的耳边响起了水坝般的咆哮声、猛烈的浪花拍击声、船帆的雷鸣声和海员的尖叫声。整个世界时而令人眼花缭乱地升起，时而令人眼花缭乱地向下冲去。我的身体如此病痛，我的思想如此混乱，我花了很长时间，上下追逐着我的思绪，并再次被新的刺痛所震惊，才意识到我一定是在撒谎。在那艘不幸的船的腹部的某个地方，风一定增强为大风。当我清楚地认识到自己的困境时，一种绝望的黑暗、对自己愚蠢的悔恨的恐惧、对叔叔的愤怒，再次让我失去了知觉。

When I returned again to life, the same uproar, the same confused and violent movements, shook and deafened me; and presently, to my other pains and distresses, there was added the sickness of an unused landsman on the sea. In that time of my adventurous youth, I suffered many hardships; but none that was so crushing to my mind and body, or lit by so few hopes, as these first hours aboard the brig.
当我再次苏醒时，同样的喧嚣，同样混乱而剧烈的动作，让我震惊、震耳欲聋。不久之后，除了我的其他痛苦和困扰之外，还有一个海上无用的陆地居民的疾病。在我那段冒险的青春岁月里，我经历了许多磨难；但没有什么比登上双桅船的最初几个小时更让我的身心如此沉重，也没有什么希望如此渺茫了。

I heard a gun fire, and supposed the storm had proved too strong for us, and we were firing signals of distress. The thought of deliverance, even by death in the deep sea, was welcome to me. Yet it was no such matter; but (as I was afterwards told) a common habit of the captain’s, which I here set down to show that even the worst man may have his kindlier side. We were then passing, it appeared, within some miles of Dysart, where the brig was built, and where old Mrs. Hoseason, the captain’s mother, had come some years before to live; and whether outward or inward bound, the Covenant was never suffered to go by that place by day, without a gun fired and colours shown.
我听到枪声，以为风暴对我们来说太强大了，所以我们发射了求救信号。拯救的想法，即使是死在深海里，对我来说都是受欢迎的。但事实并非如此。但是（正如后来我听说的那样）船长的一个常见习惯，我在这里记录下来是为了表明，即使是最坏的人也可能有他更仁慈的一面。看来我们当时正经过距离戴萨特几英里的地方，那里是双桅船的建造地，也是船长的母亲霍西森老太太几年前搬来住的地方。无论是向外还是向内，圣约人部队在白天经过那个地方时都不会在没有开枪和亮出颜色的情况下发生。

I had no measure of time; day and night were alike in that ill-smelling cavern of the ship’s bowels where, I lay; and the misery of my situation drew out the hours to double. How long, therefore, I lay waiting to hear the ship split upon some rock, or to feel her reel head foremost into the depths of the sea, I have not the means of computation. But sleep at length stole from me the consciousness of sorrow.
我无法衡量时间；在我躺着的那个散发着难闻气味的船底洞穴里，白天和黑夜都一样。我的悲惨处境使我的时间延长了一倍。因此，我躺了多久，等待听到船在岩石上裂开的声音，或者感觉到她的卷轴头最先伸入大海深处，我无法计算。但睡眠最终让我不再感到悲伤。

I was awakened by the light of a hand-lantern shining in my face. A small man of about thirty, with green eyes and a tangle of fair hair, stood looking down at me.
我被照在脸上的手灯的光吵醒了。一个三十岁左右的小个子男人，长着绿色的眼睛和一头乱糟糟的金发，低头看着我。

‘Well,’ said he, ‘how goes it?’
“嗯，”他说，“怎么样？”

I answered by a sob; and my visitor then felt my pulse and temples, and set himself to wash and dress the wound upon my scalp.
我以抽泣作答。然后我的来访者摸了摸我的脉搏和太阳穴，并开始清洗和包扎我头皮上的伤口。

‘Ay,’ said he, ‘a sore dunt[10]. What, man? Cheer up! The world’s no done; you’ve made a bad start of it but you’ll make a better. Have you had any meat?’
“哎呀，”他说，“真是个蛋疼的家伙[10]。什么样的男人？开心点！世界还没有完成；你已经有了一个糟糕的开始，但你会做得更好。你吃过肉吗？

[10] Stroke.
[10]中风。

I said I could not look at it: and thereupon he gave me some brandy and water in a tin pannikin, and left me once more to myself.
我说我不能看它：于是他给了我一些装在锡锅里的白兰地和水，然后又让我一个人呆着。

The next time he came to see me, I was lying betwixt sleep and waking, my eyes wide open in the darkness, the sickness quite departed, but succeeded by a horrid giddiness and swimming that was almost worse to bear. I ached, besides, in every limb, and the cords that bound me seemed to be of fire. The smell of the hole in which I lay seemed to have become a part of me; and during the long interval since his last visit I had suffered tortures of fear, now from the scurrying of the ship’s rats, that sometimes pattered on my very face, and now from the dismal imaginings that haunt the bed of fever.
下次他来看我时，我正半梦半醒，在黑暗中睁大眼睛，病痛完全消失了，但随之而来的是一种可怕的头晕和游泳，几乎更难以忍受。此外，我的四肢都疼痛，束缚我的绳索似乎着火了。我躺着的洞里的气味似乎已经成为我的一部分；自从他上次来访以来的很长一段时间里，我一直遭受着恐惧的折磨，有时是因为船上的老鼠乱窜，有时它们在我脸上拍打，现在又是因为发烧床上萦绕着的阴郁想象。

The glimmer of the lantern, as a trap opened, shone in like the heaven’s sunlight; and though it only showed me the strong, dark beams of the ship that was my prison, I could have cried aloud for gladness. The man with the green eyes was the first to descend the ladder, and I noticed that he came somewhat unsteadily. He was followed by the captain. Neither said a word; but the first set to and examined me, and dressed my wound as before, while Hoseason looked me in my face with an odd, black look.
陷阱打开时，灯笼的光芒就像天堂的阳光一样照进来。虽然它只让我看到了那艘船的强烈、黑暗的横梁，那艘船是我的监狱，我高兴得快要哭出来了。绿眼睛的男人第一个走下梯子，我注意到他走得有些不稳定。他身后跟着船长。两人都没有说话；但第一个人开始检查我，并像以前一样包扎我的伤口，而霍塞森则用一种奇怪的、黑色的表情看着我的脸。

‘Now, sir, you see for yourself,’ said the first: ‘a high fever, no appetite, no light, no meat: you see for yourself what that means.’
“现在，先生，你自己看看，”第一个说：“发高烧，没有胃口，没有光，没有肉：你自己看看这意味着什么。”

‘I am no conjurer, Mr. Riach,’ said the captain.
“我不是魔术师，里亚奇先生，”船长说。

‘Give me leave, sir’ said Riach; ‘you’ve a good head upon your shoulders, and a good Scotch tongue to ask with; but I will leave you no manner of excuse; I want that boy taken out of this hole and put in the forecastle.’
“请让我离开，先生，”里亚奇说道。 “你头脑聪明，说话也能说一口流利的苏格兰语；但我不会给你留下任何借口；我想把那个男孩从这个洞里救出来，放到艏楼里。”

‘What ye may want, sir, is a matter of concern to nobody but yoursel’,’ returned the captain; ‘but I can tell ye that which is to be. Here he is; here he shall bide.’
“先生，您想要什么，除了您自己之外，谁也不关心。”船长回答道。 ‘但我可以告诉你们将会发生的事情。他在这里;他将在这里等待。

‘Admitting that you have been paid in a proportion,’ said the other, ‘I will crave leave humbly to say that I have not. Paid I am, and none too much, to be the second officer of this old tub, and you ken very well if I do my best to earn it. But I was paid for nothing more.’
“我承认你已经得到了一定比例的报酬，”另一个人说，“但我想谦虚地告诉你，我没有得到报酬。”作为这个旧浴缸的二副，我得到了报酬，而且不多，如果我尽我最大的努力去赢得它，你就知道了。但我只得到了报酬。

‘If ye could hold back your hand from the tin-pan, Mr. Riach, I would have no complaint to make of ye,’ returned the skipper; ‘and instead of asking riddles, I make bold to say that ye would keep your breath to cool your porridge. We’ll be required on deck,’ he added, in a sharper note, and set one foot upon the ladder.
“如果你们能把手从锡盘上收回来，里亚奇先生，我就不会抱怨你们，”船长回答道。 “我没有问谜语，而是大胆地说，你们会屏住呼吸，让粥凉下来。”我们需要到甲板上。”他用更尖锐的语气补充道，然后把一只脚踩在梯子上。

But Mr. Riach caught him by the sleeve.
但里亚奇先生抓住了他的袖子。

‘Admitting that you have been paid to do a murder ——‘ he began.
“承认你受雇去做谋杀——”他开始说道。

Hoseason turned upon him with a flash.
霍西森一闪就转向了他。

‘What’s that?’ he cried. ‘What kind of talk is that?’
“那是什么？”他喊道。 “这是什么样的谈话？”

‘It seems it is the talk that you can understand,’ said Mr. Riach, looking him steadily in the face.
“看来这是你能听懂的谈话，”里亚奇先生说道，目光坚定地看着他的脸。

‘Mr. Riach, I have sailed with ye three cruises,’ replied the captain. ‘In all that time, sir, ye should have learned to know me: I’m a stiff man, and a dour man; but for what ye say the now — fie, fie! — it comes from a bad heart and a black conscience. If ye say the lad will die——‘
'先生。里亚奇，我已经和你们一起航行过三趟了，”船长回答道。 “在这段时间里，先生，您应该已经了解我了：我是一个僵硬的人，一个严肃的人；但对于你们现在所说的话——呸，呸！ ——它来自一颗邪恶的心和黑暗的良心。如果你说这小伙子会死——”

‘Ay, will he!’ said Mr. Riach.
“啊，他愿意吗！”里亚奇先生说。

‘Well, sir, is not that enough?’ said Hoseason. ‘Flit him where ye please!’
“好吧，先生，这还不够吗？”霍西森说。 “把他带到你想去的地方！”

Thereupon the captain ascended the ladder; and I, who had lain silent throughout this strange conversation, beheld Mr. Riach turn after him and bow as low as to his knees in what was plainly a spirit of derision. Even in my then state of sickness, I perceived two things: that the mate was touched with liquor, as the captain hinted, and that (drunk or sober) he was like to prove a valuable friend.
随后，船长登上了梯子。而我，在这场奇怪的谈话中一直保持着沉默，却看到里亚奇先生在他身后转过身来，深深地鞠躬到膝盖，这显然是一种嘲笑。即使在我当时生病的状态下，我也察觉到两件事：正如船长暗示的那样，大副沾了酒，而且（醉酒或清醒的）他似乎是一位有价值的朋友。

Five minutes afterwards my bonds were cut, I was hoisted on a man’s back, carried up to the forecastle, and laid in a bunk on some sea-blankets; where the first thing that I did was to lose my senses.
五分钟后，我的束缚被割断，我被一个人背起来，带到艏楼，放在铺位上，铺在一些海毯上。我做的第一件事就是失去理智。

It was a blessed thing indeed to open my eyes again upon the daylight, and to find myself in the society of men. The forecastle was a roomy place enough, set all about with berths, in which the men of the watch below were seated smoking, or lying down asleep. The day being calm and the wind fair, the scuttle was open, and not only the good daylight, but from time to time (as the ship rolled) a dusty beam of sunlight shone in, and dazzled and delighted me. I had no sooner moved, moreover, than one of the men brought me a drink of something healing which Mr. Riach had prepared, and bade me lie still and I should soon be well again. There were no bones broken, he explained: ‘A clour[11] on the head was naething. Man,’ said he, ‘it was me that gave it ye!’
再次睁开眼睛看到阳光，发现自己置身于人类社会之中，这确实是一件幸福的事情。艏楼是一个足够宽敞的地方，到处都是铺位，下面的值班人员要么坐在里面抽烟，要么躺着睡觉。那天风平浪静，风和日丽，天窗开着，不仅阳光明媚，而且时不时地（随着船的滚动）一束尘土飞扬的阳光照进来，让我眼花缭乱，心旷神怡。而且，我一动身，其中一个人就给我端来一杯里亚奇先生准备的有治疗作用的饮料，并吩咐我静静地躺着，很快就会康复。他解释说，没有骨头骨折：“头上有一块血块[11]，没什么。”老兄，”他说，“是我给你们的！”

[11] Blow.
[11] 吹。

Here I lay for the space of many days a close prisoner, and not only got my health again, but came to know my companions. They were a rough lot indeed, as sailors mostly are: being men rooted out of all the kindly parts of life, and condemned to toss together on the rough seas, with masters no less cruel. There were some among them that had sailed with the pirates and seen things it would be a shame even to speak of; some were men that had run from the king’s ships, and went with a halter round their necks, of which they made no secret; and all, as the saying goes, were ‘at a word and a blow’ with their best friends. Yet I had not been many days shut up with them before I began to be ashamed of my first judgment, when I had drawn away from them at the Ferry pier, as though they had been unclean beasts. No class of man is altogether bad, but each has its own faults and virtues; and these shipmates of mine were no exception to the rule. Rough they were, sure enough; and bad, I suppose; but they had many virtues. They were kind when it occurred to them, simple even beyond the simplicity of a country lad like me, and had some glimmerings of honesty.
我在这里作为亲密的囚犯躺了很多天，不仅恢复了健康，而且认识了我的同伴。他们确实是一群艰难的人，就像大多数水手一样：他们被从生活中所有善良的部分中连根拔起，注定要在波涛汹涌的大海上一起折腾，而主人也同样残酷。他们中有些人曾随海盗出海，亲眼目睹过一些说起来都羞愧的事情。有些人是从国王的船上逃跑的，脖子上套着缰绳，对此他们毫不掩饰。正如俗话所说，所有人都与他们最好的朋友“一言以蔽之”。然而，我和他们关在一起没几天，就开始为自己的第一次判断感到羞愧，当时我在渡轮码头远离了他们，就好像他们是不洁的野兽一样。没有哪个阶层的人是完全坏的，但每个人都有自己的缺点和美德；我的这些船友也不例外。毫无疑问，它们确实很粗糙；我想这很糟糕；但他们有很多美德。他们心地善良，单纯得比我这样的乡下小伙还要单纯，而且还带着一丝诚实。

There was one man, of maybe forty, that would sit on my berthside for hours and tell me of his wife and child. He was a fisher that had lost his boat, and thus been driven to the deep-sea voyaging. Well, it is years ago now: but I have never forgotten him. His wife (who was ‘young by him,’ as he often told me) waited in vain to see her man return; he would never again make the fire for her in the morning, nor yet keep the bairn when she was sick. Indeed, many of these poor fellows (as the event proved) were upon their last cruise; the deep seas and cannibal fish received them; and it is a thankless business to speak ill of the dead.
有一个男人，大约四十岁，会在我的床边坐几个小时，告诉我他的妻子和孩子的事。他是一个失去了船的渔夫，因此被迫到深海航行。好吧，那是几年前的事了：但我从未忘记他。他的妻子（正如他经常告诉我的那样，“他让她年轻”）徒劳地等待着她的男人回来。他再也不会在早上为她生火，也不会在她生病时保留婴儿。事实上，这些可怜的家伙中的许多人（正如事件所证明的那样）正在进行他们的最后一次航行。深海和食人鱼接收了它们；说死者的坏话是一件吃力不讨好的事情。

Among other good deeds that they did, they returned my money, which had been shared among them; and though it was about a third short, I was very glad to get it, and hoped great good from it in the land I was going to. The ship was bound for the Carolinas; and you must not suppose that I was going to that place merely as an exile. The trade was even then much depressed; since that, and with the rebellion of the colonies and the formation of the United States, it has, of course, come to an end; but in those days of my youth, white men were still sold into slavery on the plantations, and that was the destiny to which my wicked uncle had condemned me.
除了他们所做的其他善事之外，他们还退还了我的钱，这笔钱是他们共同分享的。虽然它只有大约三分之一的长度，但我很高兴得到它，并希望它能在我要去的土地上带来巨大的好处。这艘船开往卡罗来纳州；你千万不要认为我只是作为一个流放者去那个地方。即使在那时，贸易也很萧条。从那时起，随着殖民地的叛乱和美国的成立，它当然已经结束了。但在我年轻的那些日子里，白人仍然被卖到种植园当奴隶，这就是我邪恶的叔叔谴责我的命运。

The cabin-boy Ransome (from whom I had first heard of these atrocities) came in at times from the round-house, where he berthed and served, now nursing a bruised limb in silent agony, now raving against the cruelty of Mr. Shuan. It made my heart bleed; but the men had a great respect for the chief mate, who was, as they said, ‘the only seaman of the whole jing-bang, and none such a bad man when he was sober.’ Indeed, I found there was a strange peculiarity about our two mates: that Mr. Riach was sullen, unkind, and harsh when he was sober, and Mr. Shuan would not hurt a fly except when he was drinking. I asked about the captain; but I was told drink made no difference upon that man of iron.
船舱男孩兰塞姆（我第一次从他那里听说这些暴行）有时会从他停泊和服务的圆屋里进来，有时默默地痛苦地护理着受伤的肢体，有时又对舒安先生的残忍行为大骂不休。 。这让我的心在滴血；但这些人对大副非常尊敬，正如他们所说，他是“整个京邦中唯一的水手，清醒时没有这么坏的人。”事实上，我发现有一个奇怪的人我们两个伙伴的特点是：里亚奇先生在清醒的时候阴沉、不友善、严厉，而舒安先生除非喝酒，否则不会伤害苍蝇。我问起船长；但有人告诉我，喝酒对于那个钢铁般的人来说没有任何影响。

I did my best in the small time allowed me to make some thing like a man, or rather I should say something like a boy, of the poor creature, Ransome. But his mind was scarce truly human. He could remember nothing of the time before he came to sea; only that his father had made clocks, and had a starling in the parlour, which could whistle ‘The North Countrie;’ all else had been blotted out in these years of hardship and cruelties. He had a strange notion of the dry land, picked up from sailor’s stories: that it was a place where lads were put to some kind of slavery called a trade, and where apprentices were continually lashed and clapped into foul prisons. In a town, he thought every second person a decoy, and every third house a place in which seamen would be drugged and murdered. To be sure, I would tell him how kindly I had myself been used upon that dry land he was so much afraid of, and how well fed and carefully taught both by my friends and my parents: and if he had been recently hurt, he would weep bitterly and swear to run away; but if he was in his usual crackbrain humour, or (still more) if he had had a glass of spirits in the roundhouse, he would deride the notion.
我在有限的时间内尽了最大努力，让我能够创造出一些像男人一样的东西，或者更确切地说，我应该说像一个男孩一样的东西，这个可怜的生物，兰索姆。但他的思想几乎不是真正的人性。他不记得出海前的事情了。只是他的父亲做了钟表，客厅里养了一只椋鸟，它会吹口哨“北方国家”；其他一切都在这些年的艰辛和残酷中被抹掉了。他对旱地有一种奇怪的看法，这是从水手的故事中汲取的：这是一个小伙子们被投入某种称为贸易的奴隶制的地方，学徒们不断地被鞭打并被关进肮脏的监狱。在一个城镇里，他认为每两个人中就有一个是诱饵，每三个房子中就有一个是海员被下药和谋杀的地方。当然，我会告诉他，在他如此害怕的那片干燥的土地上，我是多么仁慈地被利用了，我的朋友和父母都给了我很好的食物和精心的教导：如果他最近受伤了，他会告诉他。会痛哭流涕，发誓要逃走；但如果他处于平常的疯狂幽默状态，或者（更进一步）如果他在圆屋里喝了一杯烈酒，他就会嘲笑这个想法。

It was Mr. Riach (Heaven forgive him!) who gave the boy drink; and it was, doubtless, kindly meant; but besides that it was ruin to his health, it was the pitifullest thing in life to see this unhappy, unfriended creature staggering, and dancing, and talking he knew not what. Some of the men laughed, but not all; others would grow as black as thunder (thinking, perhaps, of their own childhood or their own children) and bid him stop that nonsense, and think what he was doing. As for me, I felt ashamed to look at him, and the poor child still comes about me in my dreams.
给男孩喝水的是里亚奇先生（愿上帝宽恕他！）。毫无疑问，这是善意的。但除此之外，这对他的健康有害，看到这个不幸的、没有朋友的生物摇摇晃晃、跳舞、说话他不知道什么，这是一生中最可怜的事情。有些人笑了，但不是所有人都笑了。其他人会变得像雷霆一样阴沉（也许是想到自己的童年或自己的孩子），并要求他停止这种胡言乱语，想想他在做什么。至于我，我羞于看着他，那个可怜的孩子仍然出现在我的梦里。

All this time, you should know, the Covenant was meeting continual head-winds and tumbling up and down against head-seas, so that the scuttle was almost constantly shut, and the forecastle lighted only by a swinging lantern on a beam. There was constant labour for all hands; the sails had to be made and shortened every hour; the strain told on the men’s temper; there was a growl of quarrelling all day, long from berth to berth; and as I was never allowed to set my foot on deck, you can picture to yourselves how weary of my life I grew to be, and how impatient for a change.
你应该知道，在这段时间里，圣约人号一直在遭遇持续的逆风，并在逆海中上下翻滚，因此舷窗几乎一直关闭，艏楼仅靠横梁上摇晃的灯笼照亮。所有的人都在不断地劳动。船帆必须每小时制作和缩短；压力影响了男人们的脾气；整天，从一个泊位到另一个泊位，吵架声不断。由于我从未被允许踏上甲板，你可以想象我对自己的生活感到多么厌倦，以及对改变多么不耐烦。

And a change I was to get, as you shall hear; but I must first tell of a conversation I had with Mr. Riach, which put a little heart in me to bear my troubles. Getting him in a favourable stage of drink (for indeed he never looked near me when he was sober), I pledged him to secrecy, and told him my whole story.
正如你将会听到的，我将得到改变；但我必须首先讲述我与里亚奇先生的一次谈话，这让我有了一点勇气去承受我的烦恼。让他处于醉酒的有利阶段（事实上，他清醒时从来没有靠近过我），我向他保证保密，并告诉他我的整个故事。

He declared it was like a ballad; that he would do his best to help me; that I should have paper, pen, and ink, and write one line to Mr. Campbell and another to Mr. Rankeillor; and that if I had told the truth, ten to one he would be able (with their help) to pull me through and set me in my rights.
他宣称这就像一首民谣；他会尽力帮助我；我应该有纸、笔和墨水，写一行给坎贝尔先生，另一行写给兰基勒先生；如果我说真话，他就能（在他们的帮助下）以十比一的比例让我渡过难关，让我恢复自己的权利。

‘And in the meantime,’ says he, ‘keep your heart up. You’re not the only one, I’ll tell you that. There’s many a man hoeing tobacco over-seas that should be mounting his horse at his own door at home; many and many! And life is all a variorum, at the best. Look at me: I’m a laird’s son and more than half a doctor, and here I am, man-Jack to Hoseason!’
“与此同时，”他说，“保持乐观。”你不是唯一一个，我会告诉你。许多在海外锄烟草的人本应该在家里的自家门口上马。很多很多！生活充其量只是一个变数。看看我：我是地主的儿子，也是一半以上的医生，我在这里，霍西森的男人杰克！

I thought it would be civil to ask him for his story.
我认为向他询问他的故事是礼貌的做法。

He whistled loud.
他大声吹口哨。

‘Never had one,’ said he. ‘I like fun, that’s all.’ And he skipped out of the forecastle.
“从来没有过，”他说。 “我喜欢好玩，仅此而已。”然后他跳出了艏楼。

CHAPTER VIII
第八章


THE ROUND-HOUSE
圆屋

One night, about eleven o’clock, a man of Mr. Riach’s watch (which was on deck) came below for his jacket; and instantly there began to go a whisper about the forecastle that ‘Shuan had done for him at last.’ There was no need of a name; we all knew who was meant; but we had scarce time to get the idea rightly in our heads, far less to speak of it, when the scuttle was again flung open, and Captain Hoseason came down the ladder. He looked sharply round the bunks in the tossing light of the lantern; and then, walking straight up to me, he addressed me, to my surprise, in tones of kindness.
一天晚上，大约十一点钟，里亚奇先生值班的一个人（在甲板上）来到下面拿他的夹克。立刻就开始有关于艏楼的窃窃私语说：“舒安终于为他做了。”不需要名字；只要有一个名字，就可以了。我们都知道他指的是谁；但我们还没来得及在头脑中正确地理解这个想法，更不用说谈论它了，天窗再次被打开，霍西森船长从梯子上下来。在摇曳的灯笼灯光下，他锐利地环视着铺位。然后，令我惊讶的是，他径直走到我面前，用友善的语气对我说话。

‘My man,’ said he, ‘we want ye to serve in the round-house. You and Ransome are to change berths. Run away aft with ye.’
“我的朋友，”他说，“我们希望你在圆屋里服役。你和兰塞姆要换铺位。和你们一起逃到船尾去。

Even as he spoke, two seamen appeared in the scuttle, carrying Ransome in their arms; and the ship at that moment giving a great sheer into the sea, and the lantern swinging, the light fell direct on the boy’s face. It was as white as wax, and had a look upon it like a dreadful smile. The blood in me ran cold, and I drew in my breath as if I had been struck.
就在他说话的时候，两名海员出现在舷窗里，怀里抱着兰瑟姆。船此时正猛地冲进海里，灯笼摇晃着，光线直射到男孩的脸上。它像蜡一样白，看上去就像一个可怕的微笑。我浑身的血液都变冷了，我倒吸一口冷气，仿佛受到了打击。

‘Run away aft; run away aft with ye!’ cried Hoseason.
‘逃到船尾；和你们一起逃到船尾去！”霍西森喊道。

And at that I brushed by the sailors and the boy (who neither spoke nor moved), and ran up the ladder on deck.
就在这时，我从水手们和男孩身边擦身而过（他们既不说话也不动），然后跑上甲板上的梯子。

The brig was sheering swiftly and giddily through a long, cresting swell. She was on the starboard tack, and on the left hand, under the arched foot of the foresail, I could see the sunset still quite bright. This, at such an hour of the night, surprised me greatly; but I was too ignorant to draw the true conclusion — that we were going north-about round Scotland, and were now on the high sea between the Orkney and Shetland Islands, having avoided the dangerous currents of the Pentland Firth. For my part, who had been so long shut in the dark and knew nothing of head-winds, I thought we might be half-way or more across the Atlantic. And indeed (beyond that I wondered a little at the lateness of the sunset light) I gave no heed to it, and pushed on across the decks, running between the seas, catching at ropes, and only saved from going overboard by one of the hands on deck, who had been always kind to me.
双桅船正在迅速而令人眼花缭乱地冲过长长的波峰。她位于右舷迎风方向，在左手边，在前帆的拱形脚下，我可以看到日落仍然很明亮。在深夜的这个时刻，这让我大吃一惊。但我太无知了，无法得出真正的结论——我们正在向北绕过苏格兰，避开了彭特兰湾的危险洋流，现在正处于奥克尼群岛和设得兰群岛之间的公海上。就我而言，长期被关在黑暗中，对逆风一无所知，我想我们可能已经横渡了大西洋的一半或更远了。事实上（除此之外，我对夕阳的迟暮感到有点好奇）我没有理会它，继续推进甲板，在大海之间奔跑，抓住绳子，只是被一个人从落水中救了出来。双手放在甲板上，他一直对我很好。

The round-house, for which I was bound, and where I was now to sleep and serve, stood some six feet above the decks, and considering the size of the brig, was of good dimensions. Inside were a fixed table and bench, and two berths, one for the captain and the other for the two mates, turn and turn about. It was all fitted with lockers from top to bottom, so as to stow away the officers’ belongings and a part of the ship’s stores; there was a second store-room underneath, which you entered by a hatchway in the middle of the deck; indeed, all the best of the meat and drink and the whole of the powder were collected in this place; and all the firearms, except the two pieces of brass ordnance, were set in a rack in the aftermost wall of the round-house. The most of the cutlasses were in another place.
我要去的圆屋，也就是我现在睡觉和服务的地方，距离甲板大约有六英尺，考虑到双桅船的大小，它的尺寸很好。里面有一张固定的桌子和长凳，还有两个铺位，一个给船长，另一个给两个大副，转来转去。从上到下都设有储物柜，用于存放军官的物品和船上的部分物资；下面还有第二个储藏室，你可以通过甲板中间的舱口进入。事实上，所有最好的肉和饮料以及所有的粉末都聚集在这个地方。除了两件黄铜弹药外，所有枪支都放在圆屋最后一面墙上的架子上。大部分弯刀都在另一个地方。

A small window with a shutter on each side, and a skylight in the roof, gave it light by, day; and after dark there was a lamp always burning. It was burning when I entered, not brightly, but enough to show Mr. Shuan sitting at the table, with the brandy bottle and a tin pannikin in front of him. He was a tall man, strongly made and very black; and he stared before him on the table like one stupid.
一扇小窗户，两侧各有一个百叶窗，屋顶上有一个天窗，白天可以透光。天黑后有一盏灯一直亮着。我进来的时候，火在燃烧，虽然不是很亮，但足以看出舒安先生坐在桌边，面前放着白兰地酒瓶和一个锡锅。他身材高大，体格健硕，肤色黝黑。他像个傻子一样盯着面前的桌子。

He took no notice of my coming in; nor did he move when the captain followed and leant on the berth beside me, looking darkly at the mate. I stood in great fear of Hoseason, and had my reasons for it; but something told me I need not be afraid of him just then; and I whispered in his ear: ‘How is he?’ He shook his head like one that does not know and does not wish to think, and his face was very stern.
他没有注意到我进来。当船长跟随并靠在我旁边的泊位上，阴沉地看着大副时，他也没有动。我对霍萨森非常恐惧，这是有我的理由的。但有件事告诉我，此时我不必害怕他；我在他耳边低声问道：“他怎么样了？”他像一个不知道也不愿去想的人一样摇着头，脸色十分严肃。

Presently Mr. Riach came in. He gave the captain a glance that meant the boy was dead as plain as speaking, and took his place like the rest of us; so that we all three stood without a word, staring down at Mr. Shuan, and Mr. Shuan (on his side) sat without a word, looking hard upon the table.
不久，里亚奇先生进来了。他看了船长一眼，这意味着男孩已经死了，就像说话一样，然后像我们其他人一样取代了他的位置。于是我们三人都一言不发地站着，低头看着栓先生，栓先生（在他身边）也一言不发地坐着，目光凝视着桌子。

All of a sudden he put out his hand to take the bottle; and at that Mr. Riach started forward and caught it away from him, rather by surprise than violence, crying out, with an oath, that there had been too much of this work altogether, and that a judgment would fall upon the ship. And as he spoke (the weather sliding-doors standing open) he tossed the bottle into the sea.
突然他伸手去拿瓶子；这时，里亚奇先生向前走去，把它从他手中夺走，与其说是出于惊讶，不如说是出于暴力，他大声喊道，并发誓说，这项工作做得太多了，船将受到审判。当他说话时（天气滑动门打开），他把瓶子扔进了海里。

Mr. Shuan was on his feet in a trice; he still looked dazed, but he meant murder, ay, and would have done it, for the second time that night, had not the captain stepped in between him and his victim.
栓先生一下子就站了起来。他看起来仍然茫然，但他的意思是谋杀，是的，如果不是船长介入他和他的受害者之间，那天晚上他会第二次这么做。

‘Sit down!’ roars the captain. ‘Ye sot and swine, do ye know what ye’ve done? Ye’ve murdered the boy!’
“坐下！”船长吼道。 ‘你们这些蠢货和猪，你们知道你们做了什么吗？你们谋杀了这个男孩！”

Mr. Shuan seemed to understand; for he sat down again, and put up his hand to his brow.
栓先生似乎明白了；他又坐下来，把手放在额头上。

‘Well,’ he said, ‘he brought me a dirty pannikin!’
“好吧，”他说，“他给我带来了一个肮脏的面包！”

At that word, the captain and I and Mr. Riach all looked at each other for a second with a kind of frightened look; and then Hoseason walked up to his chief officer, took him by the shoulder, led him across to his bunk, and bade him lie down and go to sleep, as you might speak to a bad child. The murderer cried a little, but he took off his sea-boots and obeyed.
听到这句话，我和船长以及里亚奇先生都面面相觑了一会儿，脸上带着一种惊恐的表情。然后霍萨森走到他的大副面前，抓住他的肩膀，领他到自己的床铺上，吩咐他躺下睡觉，就像对一个坏孩子说话一样。凶手哭了一会儿，但他还是脱下了海靴，服从了。

‘Ah!’ cried Mr. Riach, with a dreadful voice, ‘ye should have interfered long syne. It’s too late now.’
“啊！”里亚奇先生用可怕的声音喊道，“你们应该干涉长同步。”现在已经太晚了。

‘Mr. Riach,’ said the captain, ‘this night’s work must never be kennt in Dysart. The boy went overboard, sir; that’s what the story is; and I would give five pounds out of my pocket it was true!’ He turned to the table. ‘What made ye throw the good bottle away?’ he added. ‘There was nae sense in that, sir. Here, David, draw me another. They’re in the bottom locker;’ and he tossed me a key. ‘Ye’ll need a glass yourself, sir,’ he added to Riach. ‘Yon was an ugly thing to see.’
'先生。里亚奇，”船长说，“今晚的工作决不能在戴萨特进行。先生，这孩子太过分了；这就是故事的内容；我愿意从口袋里掏出五英镑，这是真的！”他转向桌子。 “是什么让你们扔掉了好瓶子？”他补充道。 “这毫无意义，先生。大卫，给我再画一张。它们在最下面的储物柜里；”然后他扔给我一把钥匙。 “您自己需要一杯，先生，”他对里亚奇补充道。 “你看起来很丑陋。”

So the pair sat down and hob-a-nobbed; and while they did so, the murderer, who had been lying and whimpering in his berth, raised himself upon his elbow and looked at them and at me.
于是两人坐下来，亲密地交谈着。当他们这么做的时候，一直躺在床上哭泣的凶手用胳膊肘撑起身子，看着他们，也看着我。

That was the first night of my new duties; and in the course of the next day I had got well into the run of them. I had to serve at the meals, which the captain took at regular hours, sitting down with the officer who was off duty; all the day through I would be running with a dram to one or other of my three masters; and at night I slept on a blanket thrown on the deck boards at the aftermost end of the round-house, and right in the draught of the two doors. It was a hard and a cold bed; nor was I suffered to sleep without interruption; for some one would be always coming in from deck to get a dram, and when a fresh watch was to be set, two and sometimes all three would sit down and brew a bowl together. How they kept their health, I know not, any more than how I kept my own.
那是我履行新职责的第一个晚上。第二天我就开始跟他们跑了。我必须在正常时间吃饭，与下班的军官坐在一起。一整天我都会带着一杯酒跑到我的三个主人中的一个或另一个那里。晚上，我睡在圆屋最后一端甲板上铺的毯子上，就在两扇门的通风口处。这是一张又硬又冷的床；我也无法不受干扰地入睡。因为总有人会从甲板上进来喝一杯，当要重新值班时，两个人，有时三个人都会坐下来一起煮一碗。我不知道他们如何保持健康，就像我如何保持自己的健康一样。

And yet in other ways it was an easy service. There was no cloth to lay; the meals were either of oatmeal porridge or salt junk, except twice a week, when there was duff: and though I was clumsy enough and (not being firm on my sealegs) sometimes fell with what I was bringing them, both Mr. Riach and the captain were singularly patient. I could not but fancy they were making up lee-way with their consciences, and that they would scarce have been so good with me if they had not been worse with Ransome.
但从其他方面来说，这是一项简单的服务。没有布可以铺；饭菜要么是燕麦粥，要么是盐垃圾，除了每周两次，当有粪便时：虽然我很笨拙，而且（对我的海豹不坚定）有时会因为我带来的东西而倒下，里亚奇先生和船长非常有耐心。我不得不想象他们是在用自己的良心弥补回旋余地，如果他们对兰瑟姆不是更糟糕的话，他们很难对我这么好。

As for Mr. Shuan, the drink or his crime, or the two together, had certainly troubled his mind. I cannot say I ever saw him in his proper wits. He never grew used to my being there, stared at me continually (sometimes, I could have thought, with terror), and more than once drew back from my hand when I was serving him. I was pretty sure from the first that he had no clear mind of what he had done, and on my second day in the round-house I had the proof of it. We were alone, and he had been staring at me a long time, when all at once, up he got, as pale as death, and came close up to me, to my great terror. But I had no cause to be afraid of him.
至于栓先生，无论是喝酒，还是犯罪，或者两者结合起来，都让他心神不宁。我不能说我曾经见过他神智正常的样子。他始终不习惯我的存在，一直盯着我看（有时，我可能会带着恐惧），当我为他服务时，他不止一次地从我的手上退开。从一开始我就很确定他并不清楚自己做了什么，而在我来到圆屋的第二天，我就得到了证据。我们单独在一起，他已经盯着我看了很长时间，突然，他站起来，脸色苍白得像死人一样，靠近我，让我非常害怕。但我没有理由害怕他。

‘You were not here before?’ he asked.
“你以前不在这里吗？”他问道。

‘No, sir,’ said I.’
“不，先生，”我说。

‘There was another boy?’ he asked again; and when I had answered him, ‘Ah!’ says he, ‘I thought that,’ and went and sat down, without another word, except to call for brandy.
“还有另一个男孩吗？”他又问。当我回答他时，“啊！”他说，“我就是这么想的。”然后就走过去坐下，除了要白兰地之外，没有再说什么。

You may think it strange, but for all the horror I had, I was still sorry for him. He was a married man, with a wife in Leith; but whether or no he had a family, I have now forgotten; I hope not.
你可能觉得这很奇怪，但尽管我感到恐惧，我仍然为他感到难过。他是一个已婚男人，妻子在利斯。但他是否有家庭，我现在已经忘记了；我希望不是。

Altogether it was no very hard life for the time it lasted, which (as you are to hear) was not long. I was as well fed as the best of them; even their pickles, which were the great dainty, I was allowed my share of; and had I liked I might have been drunk from morning to night, like Mr. Shuan. I had company, too, and good company of its sort. Mr. Riach, who had been to the college, spoke to me like a friend when he was not sulking, and told me many curious things, and some that were informing; and even the captain, though he kept me at the stick’s end the most part of the time, would sometimes unbuckle a bit, and tell me of the fine countries he had visited.
总而言之，就其持续的时间而言，这并不是很艰难的生活，（正如你所听到的）时间并不长。我和他们中最好的人一样吃得饱饱的。就连他们的泡菜，那是非常美味的，我也被允许吃我的一份。如果我愿意的话，我可能会像栓先生一样，从早喝到晚。我也有同伴，而且是这样的好同伴。里亚奇先生曾上过大学，当他不生闷气时，他像朋友一样对我说话，告诉我许多奇怪的事情，其中​​一些是有启发性的。就连船长，虽然大部分时间都把我拴在棍子末端，但有时也会松开一点，告诉我他访问过的美好国家。

The shadow of poor Ransome, to be sure, lay on all four of us, and on me and Mr. Shuan in particular, most heavily. And then I had another trouble of my own. Here I was, doing dirty work for three men that I looked down upon, and one of whom, at least, should have hung upon a gallows; that was for the present; and as for the future, I could only see myself slaving alongside of negroes in the tobacco fields. Mr. Riach, perhaps from caution, would never suffer me to say another word about my story; the captain, whom I tried to approach, rebuffed me like a dog and would not hear a word; and as the days came and went, my heart sank lower and lower, till I was even glad of the work which kept me from thinking.
可以肯定的是，可怜的兰塞姆的阴影笼罩在我们四个人身上，尤其是我和舒安先生身上，影响最深。然后我自己又遇到了麻烦。我在这里为三个我看不起的人做肮脏的工作，其中一个至少应该被挂在绞刑架上；这是目前的情况；至于未来，我只能想象自己和黑人一起在烟草地里为奴。里亚奇先生也许是出于谨慎，决不允许我对我的故事多说一个字。我试图接近船长，但他像狗一样拒绝了我，不听我说一句话。日子一天天过去，我的心越来越沉，直到我什至为这份让我无法思考的工作感到高兴。

CHAPTER IX
第九章


THE MAN WITH THE BELT OF GOLD
带着金腰带的男人

More than a week went by, in which the ill-luck that had hitherto pursued the Covenant upon this voyage grew yet more strongly marked. Some days she made a little way; others, she was driven actually back. At last we were beaten so far to the south that we tossed and tacked to and fro the whole of the ninth day, within sight of Cape Wrath and the wild, rocky coast on either hand of it. There followed on that a council of the officers, and some decision which I did not rightly understand, seeing only the result: that we had made a fair wind of a foul one and were running south.
一个多星期过去了，星盟号在这次航行中所遭遇的不幸变得更加明显。有时候，她会稍稍前行；有时候，她会走得更远。其他人，她实际上是被赶回来的。最后，我们在南边被打败了，以至于第九天我们都在颠簸中来回航行，可以看到愤怒角和两旁荒凉的岩石海岸。随后，军官们召开了一次会议，做出了一些我无法正确理解的决定，只看到了结果：我们顺风顺水，向南行驶。

The tenth afternoon there was a falling swell and a thick, wet, white fog that hid one end of the brig from the other. All afternoon, when I went on deck, I saw men and officers listening hard over the bulwarks — ‘for breakers,’ they said; and though I did not so much as understand the word, I felt danger in the air, and was excited.
第十天下午，浪涛汹涌，浓浓的湿白雾遮住了双桅船的一端。整个下午，当我走上甲板时，我看到士兵和军官们在舷墙上认真地听着——“有破浪声，”他们说；虽然我不太明白这个词，但我感觉到空气中弥漫着危险，我很兴奋。

Maybe about ten at night, I was serving Mr. Riach and the captain at their supper, when the ship struck something with a great sound, and we heard voices singing out. My two masters leaped to their feet.
大约晚上十点左右，我正在为里亚奇先生和船长吃晚饭，这时船撞到了什么东西，发出巨大的声音，我们听到有人在唱歌。我的两位主人跳了起来。

‘She’s struck!’ said Mr. Riach.
“她被击中了！”里亚奇先生说。

‘No, sir,’ said the captain. ‘We’ve only run a boat down.’
“不，长官，”船长说。 “我们只击沉了一艘船。”

And they hurried out.
他们赶紧出去了。

The captain was in the right of it. We had run down a boat in the fog, and she had parted in the midst and gone to the bottom with all her crew but one. This man (as I heard afterwards) had been sitting in the stern as a passenger, while the rest were on the benches rowing. At the moment of the blow, the stern had been thrown into the air, and the man (having his hands free, and for all he was encumbered with a frieze overcoat that came below his knees) had leaped up and caught hold of the brig’s bowsprit. It showed he had luck and much agility and unusual strength, that he should have thus saved himself from such a pass. And yet, when the captain brought him into the round-house, and I set eyes on him for the first time, he looked as cool as I did.
船长在右边。我们在雾中撞上了一艘船，她在中间分开，和她的所有船员一起沉到了海底，只有一个人除外。这个人（我后来听说）作为乘客坐在船尾，而其他人则坐在长椅上划船。在受到打击的那一刻，船尾被抛到了空中，而那个人（他的双手被解放了，尽管他身上穿着一件长及膝盖以下的饰带大衣），他跳了起来，抓住了双桅船的船尾。船首斜桅。这表明他运气好，身手敏捷，力量非凡，他应该能够避免这样的险境。然而，当船长带他进入圆屋时，我第一次看到他，他看起来和我一样冷静。

He was smallish in stature, but well set and as nimble as a goat; his face was of a good open expression, but sunburnt very dark, and heavily freckled and pitted with the small-pox; his eyes were unusually light and had a kind of dancing madness in them, that was both engaging and alarming; and when he took off his great-coat, he laid a pair of fine silver-mounted pistols on the table, and I saw that he was belted with a great sword. His manners, besides, were elegant, and he pledged the captain handsomely. Altogether I thought of him, at the first sight, that here was a man I would rather call my friend than my enemy.
他身材矮小，但身材匀称，动作敏捷，像山羊一样。他的脸看上去很坦率，但被晒黑了，脸上长满了雀斑和天花。他的眼睛异常明亮，里面有一种舞蹈般的疯狂，既迷人又令人震惊。当他脱下大衣时，他把一对精美的镶银手枪放在桌子上，我看到他腰带上系着一把大剑。此外，他的举止也很优雅，对船长的誓言也很帅气。总而言之，我第一眼看到他时，我宁愿称他为朋友，也不愿称他为敌人。

The captain, too, was taking his observations, but rather of the man’s clothes than his person. And to be sure, as soon as he had taken off the great-coat, he showed forth mighty fine for the round-house of a merchant brig: having a hat with feathers, a red waistcoat, breeches of black plush, and a blue coat with silver buttons and handsome silver lace; costly clothes, though somewhat spoiled with the fog and being slept in.
船长也在观察他的情况，不过是观察这个人的衣服，而不是他的人。可以肯定的是，他一脱下大衣，就表现出了一艘商船圆屋的出色表现：戴着一顶带羽毛的帽子，一件红色背心，黑色长毛绒马裤，还有一件蓝色长袍。带有银色纽扣和帅气银色蕾丝的外套；昂贵的衣服，虽然有点被雾气和睡觉时损坏了。

‘I’m vexed, sir, about the boat,’ says the captain.
“先生，我对这艘船很恼火，”船长说。

‘There are some pretty men gone to the bottom,’ said the stranger, ‘that I would rather see on the dry land again than half a score of boats.’
“有一些漂亮的男人沉到了水底，”陌生人说，“我宁愿再次看到他们出现在陆地上，也不愿看到半条船。”

‘Friends of yours?’ said Hoseason.
“你的朋友吗？”霍西森说。

‘You have none such friends in your country,’ was the reply. ‘They would have died for me like dogs.’
“你在你的国家没有这样的朋友，”他回答道。 “他们会像狗一样为我而死。”

‘Well, sir,’ said the captain, still watching him, ‘there are more men in the world than boats to put them in.’
“好吧，先生，”船长说道，仍然注视着他，“世界上的人比可以容纳他们的船还多。”

‘And that’s true, too,’ cried the other, ‘and ye seem to be a gentleman of great penetration.’
“这也是真的，”另一个喊道，“看来你是一位很有洞察力的绅士。”

‘I have been in France, sir,’ says the captain, so that it was plain he meant more by the words than showed upon the face of them.
“我去过法国，长官，”船长说，显然他这句话的意思比他们脸上所表现的要深。

‘Well, sir,’ says the other, ‘and so has many a pretty man, for the matter of that.’
“好吧，先生，”另一个说，“就此而言，许多漂亮男人也是如此。”

‘No doubt, sir’ says the captain, ‘and fine coats.’
“毫无疑问，先生，”船长说道，“还有漂亮的外套。”

‘Oho!’ says the stranger, ‘is that how the wind sets?’ And he laid his hand quickly on his pistols.
“噢！”陌生人说道，“风就是这样吹的吗？”他迅速把手放在手枪上。

‘Don’t be hasty,’ said the captain. ‘Don’t do a mischief before ye see the need of it. Ye’ve a French soldier’s coat upon your back and a Scotch tongue in your head, to be sure; but so has many an honest fellow in these days, and I dare say none the worse of it.’
“别着急，”船长说。 ‘在你意识到有必要之前，不要做恶作剧。毫无疑问，你背上穿着法国士兵的外套，脑子里有苏格兰舌头。但如今许多诚实的人也是如此，我敢说这并不更糟。

‘So?’ said the gentleman in the fine coat: ‘are ye of the honest party?’ (meaning, Was he a Jacobite? for each side, in these sort of civil broils, takes the name of honesty for its own).
“那么？”穿精美大衣的绅士问道：“你们属于诚实党吗？”（意思是，他是詹姆斯党人吗？因为在这种内乱中，每一方都以诚实为名）。

‘Why, sir,’ replied the captain, ‘I am a true-blue Protestant, and I thank God for it.’ (It was the first word of any religion I had ever heard from him, but I learnt afterwards he was a great church-goer while on shore.) ‘But, for all that,’ says he, ‘I can be sorry to see another man with his back to the wall.’
“为什么，先生，”船长回答道，“我是一个真正的新教徒，为此我感谢上帝。”（这是我从他那里听到的关于任何宗教的第一个词，但后来我才知道他是一个）“但是，尽管如此，”他说，“看到另一个背靠墙的人，我还是会感到遗憾。”

‘Can ye so, indeed?’ asked the Jacobite. ‘Well, sir, to be quite plain with ye, I am one of those honest gentlemen that were in trouble about the years forty-five and six; and (to be still quite plain with ye) if I got into the hands of any of the red-coated gentry, it’s like it would go hard with me. Now, sir, I was for France; and there was a French ship cruising here to pick me up; but she gave us the go-by in the fog — as I wish from the heart that ye had done yoursel’! And the best that I can say is this: If ye can set me ashore where I was going, I have that upon me will reward you highly for your trouble.’
“你们真的可以吗？”雅各布派问道。 “好吧，先生，坦白地告诉你们，我是那些在四十五、六年左右陷入困境的诚实绅士之一；而且（对你们来说还是很坦白的）如果我落入任何一个红衣绅士的手中，我的处境就会很艰难。现在，先生，我支持法国；有一艘法国船在这里巡航来接我；但她在雾中给了我们路过——正如我打心底里希望你们自己做的那样！我能说的最多的就是：如果你们能把我送到我要去的地方，我会为你们所付出的努力而给予我丰厚的回报。

‘In France?’ says the captain. ‘No, sir; that I cannot do. But where ye come from — we might talk of that.’
“在法国？”船长说。 '不，先生;我做不到。但你们来自哪里——我们可以谈谈这个。”

And then, unhappily, he observed me standing in my corner, and packed me off to the galley to get supper for the gentleman. I lost no time, I promise you; and when I came back into the round-house, I found the gentleman had taken a money-belt from about his waist, and poured out a guinea or two upon the table. The captain was looking at the guineas, and then at the belt, and then at the gentleman’s face; and I thought he seemed excited.
然后，不幸的是，他发现我站在角落里，就把我送到厨房去给那位先生吃晚饭。我向你保证，我不失时机；当我回到圆屋时，我发现那位绅士从腰间取下了一条钱带，并在桌子上倒了一两几尼。船长看着几尼，然后看着腰带，然后看着绅士的脸。我觉得他看起来很兴奋。

‘Half of it,’ he cried, ‘and I’m your man!’
“一半，”他喊道，“我就是你的男人了！”

The other swept back the guineas into the belt, and put it on again under his waistcoat. ‘I have told ye’ sir’ said he, ‘that not one doit of it belongs to me. It belongs to my chieftain,’ and here he touched his hat, ‘and while I would be but a silly messenger to grudge some of it that the rest might come safe, I should show myself a hound indeed if I bought my own carcase any too dear. Thirty guineas on the sea-side, or sixty if ye set me on the Linnhe Loch. Take it, if ye will; if not, ye can do your worst.’
另一个人把几尼纳回腰带里，然后又把它穿在背心下面。 “我已经告诉过你们了，先生，”他说，“这里没有一件事是属于我的。”它属于我的酋长，”说到这里，他摸了摸帽子，“虽然我只是一个愚蠢的信使，为了其余的安全而对其中一些感到不满，但如果我买了自己的尸体，我确实应该向自己展示一只猎犬。太亲爱了。海边的话三十几尼，如果让我去林尼湖的话就六十几尼。如果你愿意的话，就拿走吧；如果没有，你们可以尽力而为。

‘Ay,’ said Hoseason. ‘And if I give ye over to the soldiers?’
“嗯，”霍西森说。 “如果我把你们交给士兵呢？”

‘Ye would make a fool’s bargain,’ said the other. ‘My chief, let me tell you, sir, is forfeited, like every honest man in Scotland. His estate is in the hands of the man they call King George; and it is his officers that collect the rents, or try to collect them. But for the honour of Scotland, the poor tenant bodies take a thought upon their chief lying in exile; and this money is a part of that very rent for which King George is looking. Now, sir, ye seem to me to be a man that understands things: bring this money within the reach of Government, and how much of it’ll come to you?’
“你们会做傻事，”另一个人说。 “我的酋长，让我告诉你，先生，就像苏格兰每一个诚实的人一样，他已经被没收了。他的财产掌握在他们称为乔治国王的人手中；收取租金或试图收取租金的是他的官员。但为了苏格兰的荣誉，可怜的佃农们会想到他们的首领被流放。这笔钱是乔治国王正在寻找的租金的一部分。现在，先生，在我看来，你是一个懂得事情的人：把这笔钱交给政府，你会得到多少？

‘Little enough, to be sure,’ said Hoseason; and then, ‘if they, knew’ he added, drily. ‘But I think, if I was to try, that I could hold my tongue about it.’
“当然，还不够，”霍西森说。然后，“如果他们知道的话，”他冷冷地补充道。 “但我认为，如果我尝试的话，我可以对此保持沉默。”

‘Ah, but I’ll begowk[12] ye there!’ cried the gentleman. ‘Play me false, and I’ll play you cunning. If a hand is laid upon me, they shall ken what money it is.’
“啊，但我会拜托[12]你们！”这位绅士喊道。 ‘如果你欺骗我，我就会狡猾地欺骗你。如果有人对我下手，他们就会知道那是什么钱。”

[12]Befool.
[12]傻瓜。

‘Well,’ returned the captain, ‘what must be must. Sixty guineas, and done. Here’s my hand upon it.’
“好吧，”船长回答道，“那是必须的。”六十几尼，完成。这是我的手。

‘And here’s mine,’ said the other.
“这是我的，”另一个说。

And thereupon the captain went out (rather hurriedly, I thought), and left me alone in the round-house with the stranger.
于是船长就出去了（我觉得相当匆忙），把我和陌生人单独留在圆屋里。

At that period (so soon after the forty-five) there were many exiled gentlemen coming back at the peril of their lives, either to see their friends or to collect a little money; and as for the Highland chiefs that had been forfeited, it was a common matter of talk how their tenants would stint themselves to send them money, and their clansmen outface the soldiery to get it in, and run the gauntlet of our great navy to carry it across. All this I had, of course, heard tell of; and now I had a man under my eyes whose life was forfeit on all these counts and upon one more, for he was not only a rebel and a smuggler of rents, but had taken service with King Louis of France. And as if all this were not enough, he had a belt full of golden guineas round his loins. Whatever my opinions, I could not look on such a man without a lively interest.
那个时期（四十五岁刚过），有许多流亡的绅士冒着生命危险回来，要么是去见朋友，要么是为了凑点钱。至于那些被没收的高地酋长，人们常说他们的佃农会不吝惜钱给他们送钱，而他们的族人会冒着士兵的压力把钱送进来，并冒着我们伟大海军的挑战，把钱运进来。它穿过。当然，这一切我都听说过；现在，我眼皮底下有一个人，他的生命因所有这些原因而被剥夺，还有一个原因，因为他不仅是一个叛乱者和一个租金走私者，而且还曾为法国国王路易效力过。似乎这一切还不够，他的腰间还系着一条装满金几尼的腰带。无论我的看法如何，我都无法不对这样一个人不产生浓厚的兴趣。

‘And so you’re a Jacobite?’ said I, as I set meat before him.
“这么说你是詹姆士党人了？”我一边说，一边把肉放在他面前。

‘Ay,’ said he, beginning to eat. ‘And you, by your long face, should be a Whig?’[13]
“嗯，”他说，开始吃东西。 “那你看你的长脸，应该是辉格党人吧？”[13]

[13] Whig or Whigamore was the cant name for those who were loyal to King George.
[13] 辉格党或惠格莫尔是那些忠于乔治国王的人的昵称。

‘Betwixt and between,’ said I, not to annoy him; for indeed I was as good a Whig as Mr. Campbell could make me.
“介于两者之间，”我说道，不想惹恼他。事实上，我是坎贝尔先生所能塑造的最优秀的辉格党人。

‘And that’s naething,’ said he. ‘But I’m saying, Mr. Betwixt-and-Between,’ he added, ‘this bottle of yours is dry; and it’s hard if I’m to pay sixty guineas and be grudged a dram upon the back of it.’
“那没什么，”他说。 “但是我想说的是，中间先生，”他补充道，“你的这瓶酒是干的；如果我付了六十基尼，却在背后吝惜一德拉姆，那我就很难受了。”

‘I’ll go and ask for the key,’ said I, and stepped on deck.
“我去拿钥匙。”我说着，走上了甲板。

The fog was as close as ever, but the swell almost down. They had laid the brig to, not knowing precisely where they were, and the wind (what little there was of it) not serving well for their true course. Some of the hands were still hearkening for breakers; but the captain and the two officers were in the waist with their heads together. It struck me (I don’t know why) that they were after no good; and the first word I heard, as I drew softly near, more than confirmed me.
雾气一如既往地逼近，但风浪却几乎消退了。他们已经把双桅船停在了那里，不知道自己到底在哪里，而且风（风很小）也不太适合他们的真实航向。有些人仍在倾听破坏者的声音；有些人仍在倾听。但船长和两名军官却在腰间，头靠在一起。我突然意识到（我不知道为什么）他们并没有追求什么好处。当我轻轻走近时，我听到的第一个词就更加坚定了我的信念。

It was Mr. Riach, crying out as if upon a sudden thought: ‘Couldn’t we wile him out of the round-house?’
那是里亚奇先生，他突然想起了什么，大声喊道：“我们不能把他从圆屋里骗出来吗？”

‘He’s better where he is,’ returned Hoseason; ‘he hasn’t room to use his sword.’
“他在现在的位置上表现得更好，”霍西森回答道。 “他没有空间使用他的剑。”

‘Well, that’s true,’ said Riach; ‘but he’s hard to come at.’
“嗯，确实如此，”里亚奇说。 “但他很难找到。”

‘Hut!’ said Hoseason. ‘We can get the man in talk, one upon each side, and pin him by the two arms; or if that’ll not hold, sir, we can make a run by both the doors and get him under hand before he has the time to draw.’
“小屋！”霍西森说。 “我们可以让这个人说话，两边各一个，然后抓住他的两条胳膊；如果这不行，先生，我们可以从两扇门跑过去，在他有时间画画之前把他抓到手下。”

At this hearing, I was seized with both fear and anger at these treacherous, greedy, bloody men that I sailed with. My first mind was to run away; my second was bolder.
在这次听证会上，我对与我同行的这些奸诈、贪婪、血腥的人感到恐惧和愤怒。我的第一个念头就是逃跑；我的第二个更大胆。

‘Captain,’ said I, ‘the gentleman is seeking a dram, and the bottle’s out. Will you give me the key?’
“船长，”我说，“这位先生正在找一杯酒，但瓶子没了。”你能给我钥匙吗？

They all started and turned about.
他们全都惊呆了，然后转身。

‘Why, here’s our chance to get the firearms!’
“嘿，这是我们获得枪支的机会！”

Riach cried; and then to me: ‘Hark ye, David,’ he said, ‘do ye ken where the pistols are?’
里亚奇哭了。然后对我说：“听着，大卫，”他说，“你知道手枪在哪里吗？”

‘Ay, ay,’ put in Hoseason. ‘David kens; David’s a good lad. Ye see, David my man, yon wild Hielandman is a danger to the ship, besides being a rank foe to King George, God bless him!’
“是的，是的，”霍西森插嘴道。 “大卫·肯斯；大卫是个好小伙子。你看，大卫，我的伙计，那个狂野的希兰德曼对这艘船来说是一个危险，除了是乔治国王的头号敌人之外，上帝保佑他！

I had never been so be-Davided since I came on board: but I said Yes, as if all I heard were quite natural.
自从我上船以来，我从来没有这么高兴过：但我说是的，好像我听到的一切都是很自然的。

‘The trouble is,’ resumed the captain, ‘that all our firelocks, great and little, are in the round-house under this man’s nose; likewise the powder. Now, if I, or one of the officers, was to go in and take them, he would fall to thinking. But a lad like you, David, might snap up a horn and a pistol or two without remark. And if ye can do it cleverly, I’ll bear it in mind when it’ll be good for you to have friends; and that’s when we come to Carolina.’
“问题是，”船长继续说道，“我们所有的火枪，无论大小，都在这个人眼皮子底下的圆屋里；同样的粉末。现在，如果我或其中一名军官进去带走他们，他就会陷入思考。但大卫，像你这样的小伙子可能会不加评论地抢购一支号角和一两把手枪。如果你能巧妙地做到这一点，当你有朋友对你有好处时，我会记住这一点；那就是我们来到卡罗来纳州的时候。

Here Mr. Riach whispered him a little.
说到这里，里亚奇先生对他低声耳语了一会儿。

‘Very right, sir,’ said the captain; and then to myself: ‘And see here, David, yon man has a beltful of gold, and I give you my word that you shall have your fingers in it.’
“非常正确，长官，”船长说。然后对自己说：“看这里，大卫，你有一条金腰带，我向你保证，你应该把手指放在里面。”

I told him I would do as he wished, though indeed I had scarce breath to speak with; and upon that he gave me the key of the spirit locker, and I began to go slowly back to the round-house. What was I to do? They were dogs and thieves; they had stolen me from my own country; they had killed poor Ransome; and was I to hold the candle to another murder? But then, upon the other hand, there was the fear of death very plain before me; for what could a boy and a man, if they were as brave as lions, against a whole ship’s company?
我告诉他我会按照他的意愿去做，尽管我确实已经喘不过气来了。然后他给了我灵魂柜的钥匙，我开始慢慢地走回圆屋。我该怎么办？他们是狗，是小偷；他们把我从自己的国家偷走了；他们杀了可怜的兰塞姆；我是否要为另一起谋杀案拭目以待？但另一方面，对死亡的恐惧却显而易见地摆在我面前。因为，如果一个男孩和一个男人像狮子一样勇敢，他们能对抗整个船上的人吗？

I was still arguing it back and forth, and getting no great clearness, when I came into the round-house and saw the Jacobite eating his supper under the lamp; and at that my mind was made up all in a moment. I have no credit by it; it was by no choice of mine, but as if by compulsion, that I walked right up to the table and put my hand on his shoulder.
我还在来来回回地争论，但没有得到很大的澄清，当我走进圆屋，看到雅各布派在灯下吃晚饭时；我立刻就下定了决心。我没有因此获得任何荣誉；我径直走到桌子旁，把手放在他的肩膀上，这并非我的选择，而是出于强迫。

‘Do ye want to be killed?’ said I. He sprang to his feet, and looked a question at me as clear as if he had spoken.
“你们想被杀吗？”我说道。他跳了起来，用一个清晰​​的眼神看着我，就像在说话一样。

‘O!’ cried I, ‘they’re all murderers here; it’s a ship full of them! They’ve murdered a boy already. Now it’s you.’
“噢！”我叫道，“他们都是这里的杀人犯；这是一艘装满了它们的船！他们已经谋杀了一个男孩。现在是你了。

‘Ay, ay’ said he; ‘but they have n’t got me yet.’ And then looking at me curiously, ‘Will ye stand with me?’
“哎呀，哎呀”他说。 “但是他们还没有抓到我。”然后好奇地看着我，“你愿意和我站在一起吗？”

‘That will I!’ said I. ‘I am no thief, nor yet murderer. I’ll stand by you.’
“我会的！”我说，“我不是小偷，也不是杀人犯。”我会支持你。'

‘Why, then,’ said he, ‘what’s your name?’
“那么，”他说，“你叫什么名字？”

‘David Balfour,’ said I; and then, thinking that a man with so fine a coat must like fine people, I added for the first time, ‘of Shaws.’
“大卫·贝尔福，”我说。然后，我想一个穿着如此精美外套的男人一定喜欢优秀的人，我第一次加上了“Shaws”。

It never occurred to him to doubt me, for a Highlander is used to see great gentlefolk in great poverty; but as he had no estate of his own, my words nettled a very childish vanity he had.
他从来没有想过怀疑我，因为高地人习惯于看到大贵族陷入极度贫困。但由于他没有自己的财产，我的话激怒了他非常幼稚的虚荣心。

‘My name is Stewart,’ he said, drawing himself up. ‘Alan Breck, they call me. A king’s name is good enough for me, though I bear it plain and have the name of no farm-midden to clap to the hind-end of it.’
“我叫斯图尔特，”他站起身来说道。 “艾伦·布雷克，他们叫我。国王的名字对我来说已经足够了，尽管我很清楚地记住它，并且没有农场的名字可以拍到它的后端。

And having administered this rebuke, as though it were something of a chief importance, he turned to examine our defences.
在发出这一责备之后，他仿佛这是一件最重要的事情，然后转而检查我们的防御。

The round-house was built very strong, to support the breaching of the seas. Of its five apertures, only the skylight and the two doors were large enough for the passage of a man. The doors, besides, could be drawn close: they were of stout oak, and ran in grooves, and were fitted with hooks to keep them either shut or open, as the need arose. The one that was already shut I secured in this fashion; but when I was proceeding to slide to the other, Alan stopped me.
圆屋建造得非常坚固，可以支撑海浪的冲刷。它的五个孔中，只有天窗和两扇门足够一个人通过。此外，门可以关闭：它们是用坚固的橡木制成的，有凹槽，并装有钩子，可以根据需要将门关闭或打开。我用这种方式固定了已经关闭的那个；但当我准备滑向另一个时，艾伦阻止了我。

‘David,’ said he — ‘for I cannae bring to mind the name of your landed estate, and so will make so bold as to call you David — that door, being open, is the best part of my defences.’
“大卫，”他说，“因为我记不起你的地产的名字，所以我会大胆地叫你大卫——那扇门，敞开着，是我防御的最好部分。”

‘It would be yet better shut,’ says I.
“把它关起来会更好。”我说。

‘Not so, David,’ says he. ‘Ye see, I have but one face; but so long as that door is open and my face to it, the best part of my enemies will be in front of me, where I would aye wish to find them.’
“不是这样，大卫，”他说。 ‘你看，我只有一张脸；但只要那扇门开着，我面向它，我的敌人最好的部分就会在我面前，我希望在那里找到他们。

Then he gave me from the rack a cutlass (of which there were a few besides the firearms), choosing it with great care, shaking his head and saying he had never in all his life seen poorer weapons; and next he set me down to the table with a powder-horn, a bag of bullets and all the pistols, which he bade me charge.
然后他从架子上给了我一把弯刀（其中除了枪械之外还有一些），他非常小心地挑选它，摇着头说他一​​生中从未见过比这更差的武器。接下来，他把我放在桌子上，手里拿着一个火药角、一袋子弹和所有手枪，他让我冲锋。

‘And that will be better work, let me tell you,’ said he, ‘for a gentleman of decent birth, than scraping plates and raxing[14] drams to a wheen tarry sailors.’
“让我告诉你，”他说，“对于一位出身体面的绅士来说，这比在滞留的水手们身上刮盘子和打[14]酒要好得多。”

[14]Reaching.
[14]达到。

Thereupon he stood up in the midst with his face to the door, and drawing his great sword, made trial of the room he had to wield it in.
于是他站在中间，面朝门，拔出巨剑，试探着他要挥舞的房间。

‘I must stick to the point,’ he said, shaking his head; ‘and that’s a pity, too. It doesn’t set my genius, which is all for the upper guard. And, now’ said he, ‘do you keep on charging the pistols, and give heed to me.’
“我必须抓住要点，”他摇摇头说道。 ‘这也很遗憾。这并不能体现我的天赋，这都是上层后卫的天赋。现在，”他说，“你继续给手枪充电，听我的。”

I told him I would listen closely. My chest was tight, my mouth dry, the light dark to my eyes; the thought of the numbers that were soon to leap in upon us kept my heart in a flutter: and the sea, which I heard washing round the brig, and where I thought my dead body would be cast ere morning, ran in my mind strangely.
我告诉他我会仔细听。我的胸口发闷，口干舌燥，眼前一片漆黑。一想到即将涌向我们的人数，我的心就颤抖起来：我听到大海冲刷双桅船的声音，我以为早上之前我的尸体就会被扔在那里，但奇怪的是，我的脑海里浮现出大海的声音。 。

‘First of all,’ said he, ‘how many are against us?’
“首先，”他说，“有多少人反对我们？”

I reckoned them up; and such was the hurry of my mind, I had to cast the numbers twice. ‘Fifteen,’ said I.
我算了一下；由于我的心太急，我不得不把数字投两次。 “十五。”我说。

Alan whistled. ‘Well,’ said he, ‘that can’t be cured. And now follow me. It is my part to keep this door, where I look for the main battle. In that, ye have no hand. And mind and dinnae fire to this side unless they get me down; for I would rather have ten foes in front of me than one friend like you cracking pistols at my back.’
艾伦吹了声口哨。 “好吧，”他说，“这是无法治愈的。”现在跟我来。我的职责是守住这扇门，在那里我寻找主战。在这方面，你们无能为力。心灵和陆地都会向这边开火，除非他们把我打倒；因为我宁愿有十个敌人在我面前，也不愿有一个像你这样的朋友在我背后用手枪射击。

I told him, indeed I was no great shot.
我告诉他，我确实不是一个出色的射手。

‘And that, s very bravely said,’ he cried, in a great admiration of my candour. ‘There’s many a pretty gentleman that wouldnae dare to say it.’
“这句话说得非常勇敢，”他喊道，对我的坦率非常钦佩。 “有很多漂亮的绅士都不敢这么说。”

‘But then, sir’ said I, ‘there is the door behind you’ which they may perhaps break in.’
“但是，先生，”我说，“你身后有一扇门，他们也许会闯进来。”

‘Ay,’ said he, ‘and that is a part of your work. No sooner the pistols charged, than ye must climb up into yon bed where ye’re handy at the window; and if they lift hand, against the door, ye’re to shoot. But that’s not all. Let’s make a bit of a soldier of ye, David. What else have ye to guard?’
“是的，”他说，“那是你工作的一部分。”手枪一开火，你们就必须爬上床上，就在窗边方便的地方；如果他们把手举到门上，你就开枪。但这还不是全部。大卫，让我们成为一名战士吧。你们还有什么要守护的？

‘There’s the skylight,’ said I. ‘But indeed, Mr. Stewart, I would need to have eyes upon both sides to keep the two of them; for when my face is at the one, my back is to the other.’
“那里有天窗，”我说，“但是事实上，斯图尔特先生，我需要在两边都有眼睛才能保住他们两个；但是，斯图尔特先生。”因为当我的脸朝向一个时，我的背就朝向另一个。

‘And that’s very true,’ said Alan. ‘But have ye no ears to your head?’
“确实如此，”艾伦说。 “但是你们没有耳朵吗？”

‘To be sure!’ cried I. ‘I must hear the bursting of the glass!’
“当然！”我喊道，“我一定听到玻璃破裂的声音！”

‘Ye have some rudiments of sense,’ said Alan, grimly.
“你们有一些基本的判断力，”艾伦冷酷地说。

CHAPTER X
第十章


THE SIEGE OF THE ROUND-HOUSE
圆屋之围

But now our time of truce was come to an end. Those on deck had waited for my coming till they grew impatient; and scarce had Alan spoken, when the captain showed face in the open door.
但现在我们的休战期已经结束了。甲板上的人一直在等待我的到来，直到他们变得不耐烦了。艾伦还没说话，船长就出现在敞开的门里。

‘Stand!’ cried Alan, and pointed his sword at him. The captain stood, indeed; but he neither winced nor drew back a foot.
“站住！”艾伦喊道，并用剑指着他。船长确实站着；但他既没有退缩，也没有后退一步。

‘A naked sword?’ says he. ‘This is a strange return for hospitality.’
“一把光秃秃的剑？”他说。 “这是对热情好客的奇怪回报。”

‘Do ye see me?’ said Alan. ‘I am come of kings; I bear a king’s name. My badge is the oak. Do ye see my sword? It has slashed the heads off mair Whigamores than you have toes upon your feet. Call up your vermin to your back, sir, and fall on! The sooner the clash begins, the sooner ye’ll taste this steel throughout your vitals.’
“你看到我了吗？”艾伦说。 ‘我来自君王；我有一个国王的名字。我的徽章是橡树。你看到我的剑了吗？它砍掉了惠格摩尔夫人的头，比砍掉你脚上的脚趾还要多。先生，把你的害虫叫到你的背上，然后倒下去！冲突越早开始，你们的生命体就越早尝到钢铁的滋味。

The captain said nothing to Alan, but he looked over at me with an ugly look. ‘David,’ said he, ‘I’ll mind this;’ and the sound of his voice went through me with a jar.
队长没有对艾伦说什么，只是用一种难看的眼神看着我。 “大卫，”他说，“我会介意的。”他的声音像罐子一样刺痛了我。

Next moment he was gone.
下一刻他就消失了。

‘And now,’ said Alan, ‘let your hand keep your head, for the grip is coming.’
“现在，”艾伦说，“让你的手保持你的头，因为紧握即将到来。”

Alan drew a dirk, which he held in his left hand in case they should run in under his sword. I, on my part, clambered up into the berth with an armful of pistols and something of a heavy heart, and set open the window where I was to watch. It was a small part of the deck that I could overlook, but enough for our purpose. The sea had gone down, and the wind was steady and kept the sails quiet; so that there was a great stillness in the ship, in which I made sure I heard the sound of muttering voices. A little after, and there came a clash of steel upon the deck, by which I knew they were dealing out the cutlasses and one had been let fall; and after that, silence again.
艾伦抽出了一把短刀，他把短刀握在左手上，以防他们跑到他的剑下。我则怀着沉重的心情，怀着一抱手枪爬上卧铺，打开了我要观看的窗户。这是甲板上我可以忽略的一小部分，但足以满足我们的目的。海水已经退去，风势平稳，风帆保持安静。于是船上一片寂静，我确信我听到了嘀咕的声音。过了一会儿，甲板上传来了一声钢铁撞击声，我知道他们正在挥舞弯刀，有一把已经掉了下来；之后又是一片寂静。

I do not know if I was what you call afraid; but my heart beat like a bird’s, both quick and little; and there was a dimness came before my eyes which I continually rubbed away, and which continually returned. As for hope, I had none; but only a darkness of despair and a sort of anger against all the world that made me long to sell my life as dear as I was able. I tried to pray, I remember, but that same hurry of my mind, like a man running, would not suffer me to think upon the words; and my chief wish was to have the thing begin and be done with it.
我不知道我是否就是你所说的害怕；但我的心跳得像鸟儿一样，又快又小；我的眼前出现了一种模糊的感觉，我不断地擦掉它，但它又不断地出现。至于希望，我没有。但只有一种绝望的黑暗和一种对整个世界的愤怒，让我渴望尽可能高价地出卖自己的生命。我记得我试着祈祷，但我的思绪就像一个奔跑的人一样匆忙，不允许我思考这些话；我的主要愿望是让事情开始并结束。

It came all of a sudden when it did, with a rush of feet and a roar, and then a shout from Alan, and a sound of blows and some one crying out as if hurt. I looked back over my shoulder, and saw Mr. Shuan in the doorway, crossing blades with Alan.
事情来得很突然，伴随着一阵脚步声和一声吼叫，然后是艾伦的一声喊叫，以及一阵拳打脚踢的声音，有人哭喊着，好像受伤了一样。我回头一看，看到栓先生在门口与艾伦交锋。

‘That’s him that killed the boy!’ I cried.
“就是他杀了那个男孩！”我喊道。

‘Look to your window!’ said Alan; and as I turned back to my place, I saw him pass his sword through the mate’s body.
“看看你的窗户！”艾伦说。当我转身回到自己的位置时，我看到他用剑刺穿了大副的身体。

It was none too soon for me to look to my own part; for my head was scarce back at the window, before five men, carrying a spare yard for a battering-ram, ran past me and took post to drive the door in. I had never fired with a pistol in my life, and not often with a gun; far less against a fellow-creature. But it was now or never; and just as they swang the yard, I cried out: ‘Take that!’ and shot into their midst.
对我来说，考虑自己的问题还为时过早。因为我的头几乎向后靠在窗户上，五个人拿着一个备用的院子来装攻城槌，从我身边跑过，准备把门推进去。我这辈子从来没有用手枪开过枪，而且也不经常开枪。带枪；更不用说针对同胞了。但现在就是这样，否则永远不会。就在他们在院子里晃来晃去时，我喊道：“拿住那个！”然后就射进了他们中间。

I must have hit one of them, for he sang out and gave back a step, and the rest stopped as if a little disconcerted. Before they had time to recover, I sent another ball over their heads; and at my third shot (which went as wide as the second) the whole party threw down the yard and ran for it.
我肯定击中了其中一​​个，因为他大声叫喊并后退了一步，其余的人都停了下来，好像有点惊慌。在他们有时间恢复之前，我又把一个球从他们的头顶上扔了过去；当我第三次射击时（与第二次一样宽），整个队伍都扔下院子并跑去。

Then I looked round again into the deck-house. The whole place was full of the smoke of my own firing, just as my ears seemed to be burst with the noise of the shots. But there was Alan, standing as before; only now his sword was running blood to the hilt, and himself so swelled with triumph and fallen into so fine an attitude, that he looked to be invincible. Right before him on the floor was Mr. Shuan, on his hands and knees; the blood was pouring from his mouth, and he was sinking slowly lower, with a terrible, white face; and just as I looked, some of those from behind caught hold of him by the heels and dragged him bodily out of the round-house. I believe he died as they were doing it.
然后我再次环顾甲板室。整个地方充满了我自己开枪的烟雾，我的耳朵似乎被枪声震破了。但艾伦还是像以前一样站着。只是现在，他的剑已经流血到了剑柄，他的自我洋溢得意洋洋，姿态优美，看起来所向无敌。就在他面前的地板上，栓先生手脚并用地趴在地上。鲜血从他嘴里涌出来，他慢慢地往下沉，脸色苍白得可怕。正当我看的时候，后面的几个人抓住了他的脚后跟，把他拖出了圆屋。我相信他在他们这么做的时候就死了。

‘There’s one of your Whigs for ye!’ cried Alan; and then turning to me, he asked if I had done much execution.
“这是你们的一名辉格党人！”艾伦喊道。然后转向我，他问我是否做了很多执行工作。

I told him I had winged one, and thought it was the captain.
我告诉他我有一只翅膀，我以为那是船长。

‘And I’ve settled two,’ says he. ‘No, there’s not enough blood let; they’ll be back again. To your watch, David. This was but a dram before meat.’
“我已经解决了两个，”他说。 “不，放血还不够；他们会再次回来的。大卫，请注意。这只不过是肉之前的一杯酒。

I settled back to my place, re-charging the three pistols I had fired, and keeping watch with both eye and ear.
我回到自己的位置，给已经开火的三把手枪重新装弹，并用眼睛和耳朵监视着。

Our enemies were disputing not far off upon the deck, and that so loudly that I could hear a word or two above the washing of the seas.
我们的敌人正在不远处的甲板上争论，声音如此之大，我可以听到海面上方的一两个字。

‘It was Shuan bauchled[15] it,’ I heard one say.
“是 Shuan 包办的[15]，”我听到一个人说。

[15]Bungled.
[15]搞砸了。

And another answered him with a ‘Wheesht, man! He’s paid the piper.’
另一个人回答他：“哎呀，伙计！”他已经付钱给风笛手了。

After that the voices fell again into the same muttering as before. Only now, one person spoke most of the time, as though laying down a plan, and first one and then another answered him briefly, like men taking orders. By this, I made sure they were coming on again, and told Alan.
随后，声音又变成了之前的嘀咕声。只是现在，大部分时间都是一个人说话，仿佛在制定计划，先有一个，然后又有一个简短地回答他，就像男人接受命令一样。通过这一点，我确定他们会再次上场，并告诉艾伦。

‘It’s what we have to pray for,’ said he. ‘Unless we can give them a good distaste of us, and done with it, there’ll be nae sleep for either you or me. But this time, mind, they’ll be in earnest.’
“这是我们必须祈祷的，”他说。 “除非我们能让他们对我们产生极大的厌恶，并且结束了，否则你我都无法入睡。”但请注意，这一次他们是认真的。”

By this, my pistols were ready, and there was nothing to do but listen and wait. While the brush lasted, I had not the time to think if I was frighted; but now, when all was still again, my mind ran upon nothing else. The thought of the sharp swords and the cold steel was strong in me; and presently, when I began to hear stealthy steps and a brushing of men’s clothes against the round-house wall, and knew they were taking their places in the dark, I could have found it in my mind to cry out aloud.
至此，我的手枪已经准备好了，除了倾听和等待之外，别无他法。当刷子持续的时候，我没有时间去想我是否害怕；但现在，当一切再次安静下来时，我的思绪不再思考其他事情。锋利的刀剑和冰冷的钢铁的念头在我心中强烈地浮现。不久，当我开始听到偷偷摸摸的脚步声和人们的衣服擦过圆屋墙壁的声音，并知道他们正在黑暗中就位时，我本能地在心里大声喊叫。

All this was upon Alan’s side; and I had begun to think my share of the fight was at an end, when I heard some one drop softly on the roof above me.
这一切都在艾伦这边；当我听到有人轻轻地落在我头顶的屋顶上时，我开始以为我的战斗已经结束了。

Then there came a single call on the sea-pipe, and that was the signal. A knot of them made one rush of it, cutlass in hand, against the door; and at the same moment, the glass of the skylight was dashed in a thousand pieces, and a man leaped through and landed on the floor. Before he got his feet, I had clapped a pistol to his back, and might have shot him, too; only at the touch of him (and him alive) my whole flesh misgave me, and I could no more pull the trigger than I could have flown.
然后海管上传来一声呼叫，这就是信号。一群人手持弯刀，冲向门。与此同时，天窗的玻璃被击碎成千片，一个人从里面跳了出来，落在地板上。在他站起来之前，我用手枪对着他的背，可能也开枪打死了他。只有一碰他（而且他还活着），我的整个肉体都感到不安，我无法扣动扳机，就像我无法飞翔一样。

He had dropped his cutlass as he jumped, and when he felt the pistol, whipped straight round and laid hold of me, roaring out an oath; and at that either my courage came again, or I grew so much afraid as came to the same thing; for I gave a shriek and shot him in the midst of the body. He gave the most horrible, ugly groan and fell to the floor. The foot of a second fellow, whose legs were dangling through the skylight, struck me at the same time upon the head; and at that I snatched another pistol and shot this one through the thigh, so that he slipped through and tumbled in a lump on his companion’s body. There was no talk of missing, any more than there was time to aim; I clapped the muzzle to the very place and fired.
他跳起来时，弯刀掉了下来，当他感觉到手枪时，他猛地转过身，抓住了我，咆哮着发誓；那时，要么我的勇气又回来了，要么我变得非常害怕，以至于做了同样的事情。因为我尖叫了一声，朝他的身体中间开了一枪。他发出最可怕、最丑陋的呻吟声，倒在了地上。第二个家伙的双腿悬在天窗外，他的脚同时击中了我的头部；这时我又抓起一把手枪，朝这个人的大腿开了一枪，结果他滑了出去，摔倒在他同伴的身上。没有人说会打偏，就像没有时间瞄准一样。我把枪口对准那个地方，然后开枪。

I might have stood and stared at them for long, but I heard Alan shout as if for help, and that brought me to my senses.
我可能已经站在那里盯着他们看了很长时间，但我听到艾伦大喊，好像在寻求帮助，这让我回过神来。

He had kept the door so long; but one of the seamen, while he was engaged with others, had run in under his guard and caught him about the body. Alan was dirking him with his left hand, but the fellow clung like a leech. Another had broken in and had his cutlass raised. The door was thronged with their faces. I thought we were lost, and catching up my cutlass, fell on them in flank.
他把门关了这么久；但当他正在和其他人打交道时，一名海员在他的看守下冲了进来，抓住了他的尸体。艾伦用左手猛击他，但那家伙像水蛭一样紧紧抓住。另一个人闯了进来，举起了他的弯刀。门口挤满了他们的脸。我以为我们迷路了，于是我拿起弯刀，从侧翼攻击他们。

But I had not time to be of help. The wrestler dropped at last; and Alan, leaping back to get his distance, ran upon the others like a bull, roaring as he went. They broke before him like water, turning, and running, and falling one against another in their haste. The sword in his hands flashed like quicksilver into the huddle of our fleeing enemies; and at every flash there came the scream of a man hurt. I was still thinking we were lost, when lo! they were all gone, and Alan was driving them along the deck as a sheep-dog chases sheep.
但我没有时间提供帮助。摔跤手终于倒下了。艾伦向后一跳，拉开距离，像一头公牛一样冲向其他人，边跑边咆哮。他们像水一样在他面前溃散，转身、奔跑，在匆忙中一个接一个地摔倒。他手中的剑像水银一样闪烁，刺入了我们逃跑的敌人之中。每当闪光时，就会传来受伤者的尖叫声。我还以为我们迷路了，瞧！他们都走了，艾伦赶着他们沿着甲板走，就像牧羊犬追赶羊群一样。

Yet he was no sooner out than he was back again, being as cautious as he was brave; and meanwhile the seamen continued running and crying out as if he was still behind them; and we heard them tumble one upon another into the forecastle, and clap-to the hatch upon the top.
然而他一出去就又回来了，既谨慎又勇敢。与此同时，海员们继续奔跑并大声喊叫，仿佛他还在他们身后。我们听见他们一个接一个地跌进艏楼，拍打着顶部的舱口。

The round-house was like a shambles; three were dead inside, another lay in his death agony across the threshold; and there were Alan and I victorious and unhurt.
圆屋像一片废墟。其中三个人死在里面，另一个人躺在门槛上，痛苦地死去。艾伦和我取得了胜利并且毫发无伤。

He came up to me with open arms. ‘Come to my arms!’ he cried, and embraced and kissed me hard upon both cheek. ‘David,’ said he, ‘I love you like a brother. And O, man,’ he cried in a kind of ecstasy, ‘am I no a bonny fighter?’
他张开双臂向我走来。 “到我怀里来！”他喊道，拥抱并用力亲吻我的双颊。 “大卫，”他说，“我像爱兄弟一样爱你。”噢，老兄，”他狂喜地喊道，“我不是一个漂亮的战士吗？”

Thereupon he turned to the four enemies, passed his sword clean through each of them, and tumbled them out of doors one after the other. As he did so, he kept humming and singing and whistling to himself, like a man trying to recall an air; only what HE was trying was to make one. All the while, the flush was in his face, and his eyes were as bright as a five-year-old child’s with a new toy. And presently he sat down upon the table, sword in hand; the air that he was making all the time began to run a little clearer, and then clearer still; and then out he burst with a great voice into a Gaelic song.
于是他转向四个敌人，一剑穿过他们每一个人，然后把他们一个接一个地摔出了门外。当他这样做的时候，他不断地哼唱、唱歌、吹口哨，就像一个人试图回忆起一种空气；他唯一想做的就是制作一个。整个过程中，他的脸都红透了，眼睛明亮得就像五岁孩子拿到新玩具一样。不久他就坐在桌子上，手里拿着剑。他一直制造的空气开始变得更加清澈，然后更加清澈。然后他大声唱起一首盖尔语歌曲。

I have translated it here, not in verse (of which I have no skill) but at least in the king’s English.
我在这里翻译了它，不是用诗歌（我对此没有技巧），而是至少用国王的英语。

He sang it often afterwards, and the thing became popular; so that I have, heard it, and had it explained to me, many’s the time.
后来他经常唱这首歌，这首歌就流行起来了。所以很多时候我都听过，也有人向我解释过。

‘This is the song of the sword of Alan; The smith made it, The fire set it; Now it shines in the hand of Alan Breck.
‘这是艾伦之剑之歌；铁匠制造了它，火点燃了它；现在它在艾伦·布雷克 (Alan Breck) 的手中闪闪发光。

‘Their eyes were many and bright, Swift were they to behold, Many the hands they guided: The sword was alone.
‘他们的眼睛多而明亮，他们的目光敏捷，他们引导着许多双手：剑是孤独的。

‘The dun deer troop over the hill, They are many, the hill is one; The dun deer vanish, The hill remains.
‘黄鹿成群结队翻过山，它们很多，山是一；暗褐色的鹿消失了，山依然存在。

‘Come to me from the hills of heather, Come from the isles of the sea. O far-beholding eagles, Here is your meat.’
‘从石南山到我这里来，从海岛到我这里来。哦，目光远大的老鹰，这是你的肉。”

Now this song which he made (both words and music) in the hour of our victory, is something less than just to me, who stood beside him in the tussle. Mr. Shuan and five more were either killed outright or thoroughly disabled; but of these, two fell by my hand, the two that came by the skylight. Four more were hurt, and of that number, one (and he not the least important) got his hurt from me. So that, altogether, I did my fair share both of the killing and the wounding, and might have claimed a place in Alan’s verses. But poets have to think upon their rhymes; and in good prose talk, Alan always did me more than justice.
现在，他在我们胜利的时刻创作的这首歌（无论是歌词还是音乐），对于在战斗中站在他身边的我来说，不仅仅是我的事。栓先生和另外五人要么当场死亡，要么彻底残疾；但其中有两个是从我手上掉下来的，那两个是从天窗进来的。还有四人受伤，其中一人（他也是最重要的）是我造成的。因此，总的来说，我公平地承担了杀戮和伤害的责任，并且可能在艾伦的诗句中占有一席之地。但诗人必须思考他们的韵律；在精彩的散文谈话中，艾伦总是给我带来更多的正义感。

In the meanwhile, I was innocent of any wrong being done me. For not only I knew no word of the Gaelic; but what with the long suspense of the waiting, and the scurry and strain of our two spirts of fighting, and more than all, the horror I had of some of my own share in it, the thing was no sooner over than I was glad to stagger to a seat. There was that tightness on my chest that I could hardly breathe; the thought of the two men I had shot sat upon me like a nightmare; and all upon a sudden, and before I had a guess of what was coming, I began to sob and cry like any child.
与此同时，我对别人对我的任何错误都是无辜的。因为我不仅不懂盖尔语，而且连盖尔语也不懂。但是，由于等待的漫长悬念，以及我们两种战斗精神的匆忙和紧张，最重要的是，我对自己的一些参与感到恐惧，事情很快就结束了，我很高兴摇摇晃晃地走到座位上。我的胸口很闷，几乎无法呼吸。一想到我射杀的那两个人，我就像一场噩梦。突然之间，在我猜到接下来会发生什么之前，我开始像任何孩子一样抽泣。

Alan clapped my shoulder, and said I was a brave lad and wanted nothing but a sleep.
艾伦拍拍我的肩膀，说我是个勇敢的小伙子，只想睡觉。

‘I’ll take the first watch,’ said he. ‘Ye’ve done well by me, David, first and last; and I wouldn’t lose you for all Appin — no, nor for Breadalbane.’
“我来值班，”他说。 “大卫，你自始至终都对我做得很好；我不会因为阿平而失去你——不，也不会因为布雷多尔巴恩而失去你。

So I made up my bed on the floor; and he took the first spell, pistol in hand and sword on knee, three hours by the captain’s watch upon the wall. Then he roused me up, and I took my turn of three hours; before the end of which it was broad day, and a very quiet morning, with a smooth, rolling sea that tossed the ship and made the blood run to and fro on the round-house floor, and a heavy rain that drummed upon the roof. All my watch there was nothing stirring; and by the banging of the helm, I knew they had even no one at the tiller. Indeed (as I learned afterwards) there were so many of them hurt or dead, and the rest in so ill a temper, that Mr. Riach and the captain had to take turn and turn like Alan and me, or the brig might have gone ashore and nobody the wiser. It was a mercy the night had fallen so still, for the wind had gone down as soon as the rain began. Even as it was, I judged by the wailing of a great number of gulls that went crying and fishing round the ship, that she must have drifted pretty near the coast or one of the islands of the Hebrides; and at last, looking out of the door of the round-house, I saw the great stone hills of Skye on the right hand, and, a little more astern, the strange isle of Rum.
于是我在地板上整理了床铺；他手里拿着手枪，膝上放着剑，在墙上的船长值班处度过了第一个咒语。然后他把我叫醒，三个小时后轮到我了。在这一切结束之前，天已经大亮了，早晨非常安静，风平浪静，波涛汹涌的大海把船摇晃着，血液在圆屋的地板上来回流淌，大雨敲打着屋顶。 。我一直观察着，没有任何动静；通过舵的撞击声，我知道连舵手都没有人。事实上（据我后来了解到），他们中的很多人受伤或死亡，其余的人脾气都很不好，里亚奇先生和船长不得不像艾伦和我一样轮流转，否则双桅船可能会消失上岸后，没有人更明智。幸亏夜色如此静谧，因为雨一开始，风就停了。即便如此，根据大量海鸥在船周围哭泣和捕鱼的哀号声，我判断她一定是在海岸附近或赫布里底群岛之一附近漂流的；最后，从圆屋的门往外看，我看到了右边斯凯岛的巨大石山，再往后一点，我看到了奇怪的朗姆岛。

CHAPTER XI
第十一章


THE CAPTAIN KNUCKLES UNDER
指关节下的船长

Alan and I sat down to breakfast about six of the clock. The floor was covered with broken glass and in a horrid mess of blood, which took away my hunger. In all other ways we were in a situation not only agreeable but merry; having ousted the officers from their own cabin, and having at command all the drink in the ship — both wine and spirits — and all the dainty part of what was eatable, such as the pickles and the fine sort of bread. This, of itself, was enough to set us in good humour, but the richest part of it was this, that the two thirstiest men that ever came out of Scotland (Mr. Shuan being dead) were now shut in the fore-part of the ship and condemned to what they hated most — cold water.
大约六点钟左右，艾伦和我坐下来吃早餐。地板上布满了碎玻璃和可怕的血迹，这消除了我的饥饿感。在所有其他方面，我们的处境不仅令人愉快，而且令人愉快。把军官们赶出了自己的船舱，并指挥了船上所有的饮料——包括葡萄酒和烈酒——以及所有可吃的美味佳肴，比如泡菜和上等的面包。这本身就足以让我们心情愉快，但其中最丰富的部分是，从苏格兰出来的两个最口渴的人（舒安先生已经死了）现在被关在了前部。船上并被判处他们最讨厌的东西——冷水。

‘And depend upon it,’ Alan said, ‘we shall hear more of them ere long. Ye may keep a man from the fighting, but never from his bottle.’
“相信吧，”艾伦说，“我们很快就会听到更多的消息。”你可以让一个人远离战斗，但永远不会远离他的酒瓶。

We made good company for each other. Alan, indeed, expressed himself most lovingly; and taking a knife from the table, cut me off one of the silver buttons from his coat.
我们是彼此的好伙伴。艾伦确实表达了自己最深情的想法。我从桌上拿出一把刀，割下了他外套上的一颗银纽扣。

‘I had them,’ says he, ‘from my father, Duncan Stewart; and now give ye one of them to be a keepsake for last night’s work. And wherever ye go and show that button, the friends of Alan Breck will come around you.’
“我从我的父亲邓肯·斯图尔特那里得到了它们，”他说道；现在给你们其中一张作为昨晚工作的纪念品。无论你走到哪里，只要亮出那个按钮，艾伦·布雷克的朋友就会来到你身边。

He said this as if he had been Charlemagne, and commanded armies; and indeed, much as I admired his courage, I was always in danger of smiling at his vanity: in danger, I say, for had I not kept my countenance, I would be afraid to think what a quarrel might have followed.
他说这话的时候就好像他是查理曼大帝，指挥着军队一样。事实上，虽然我很钦佩他的勇气，但我总是面临着对他的虚荣心微笑的危险：我说，处于危险之中，因为如果我不保持表情，我会害怕想到接下来可能会发生什么争吵。

As soon as we were through with our meal he rummaged in the captain’s locker till he found a clothes-brush; and then taking off his coat, began to visit his suit and brush away the stains, with such care and labour as I supposed to have been only usual with women. To be sure, he had no other; and, besides (as he said), it belonged to a king and so behoved to be royally looked after.
我们一吃完饭，他就在船长的储物柜里翻找，直到找到一把衣刷。然后脱掉外套，开始检查他的西装，刷掉污渍，我以为只有女人才能做到这一点。可以肯定的是，他没有别的办法。而且，此外（正如他所说），它属于一位国王，因此理应受到皇家的照顾。

For all that, when I saw what care he took to pluck out the threads where the button had been cut away, I put a higher value on his gift.
尽管如此，当我看到他小心翼翼地把纽扣被剪掉的线头拔掉时，我更加看重他的天赋。

He was still so engaged when we were hailed by Mr. Riach from the deck, asking for a parley; and I, climbing through the skylight and sitting on the edge of it, pistol in hand and with a bold front, though inwardly in fear of broken glass, hailed him back again and bade him speak out. He came to the edge of the round-house, and stood on a coil of rope, so that his chin was on a level with the roof; and we looked at each other awhile in silence. Mr. Riach, as I do not think he had been very forward in the battle, so he had got off with nothing worse than a blow upon the cheek: but he looked out of heart and very weary, having been all night afoot, either standing watch or doctoring the wounded.
当里亚奇先生在甲板上向我们招呼、要求谈判时，他仍然很忙碌。我爬过天窗，坐在天窗边缘，手里拿着手枪，面无表情，虽然内心害怕玻璃碎裂，但还是再次把他招呼回来，并命令他说出来。他来到圆屋的边缘，站在一卷绳子上，下巴与屋顶齐平。我们默默地对视了一会儿。里亚奇先生，因为我认为他在战斗中表现不佳，所以他下场时除了脸颊上受到了一击之外，没有什么比这更糟糕的了：但他看起来心不在焉，非常疲倦，因为已经走了一整夜，要么站岗或治疗伤员。

‘This is a bad job,’ said he at last, shaking his head.
“这是一份糟糕的工作，”他最后摇摇头说道。

‘It was none of our choosing,’ said I.
“这不是我们的选择，”我说。

‘The captain,’ says he, ‘would like to speak with your friend. They might speak at the window.’
“船长，”他说，“想和你的朋友谈谈。”他们可能会在窗口说话。

‘And how do we know what treachery he means?’ cried I.
“我们怎么知道他的意思是什么？”我喊道。

‘He means none, David,’ returned Mr. Riach, ‘and if he did, I’ll tell ye the honest truth, we couldnae get the men to follow.’
“他没有任何意思，大卫，”里亚奇先生回答道，“如果他真的这么做了，我会诚实地告诉你们，我们无法让那些人跟随。”

‘Is that so?’ said I.
“是这样吗？”我说。

‘I’ll tell ye more than that,’ said he. ‘It’s not only the men; it’s me. I’m frich’ened, Davie.’ And he smiled across at me. ‘No,’ he continued, ‘what we want is to be shut of him.’
“我会告诉你们更多的事情，”他说。 “这不仅是男人的问题；这就是我。我很富有，戴维。”他对着我微笑。 “不，”他继续说道，“我们想要的是远离他。”

Thereupon I consulted with Alan, and the parley was agreed to and parole given upon either side; but this was not the whole of Mr. Riach’s business, and he now begged me for a dram with such instancy and such reminders of his former kindness, that at last I handed him a pannikin with about a gill of brandy. He drank a part, and then carried the rest down upon the deck, to share it (I suppose) with his superior.
于是我与艾伦商量，谈判获得同意，双方都获得了假释。但这并不是里亚奇先生的全部工作，他现在请求我喝一杯酒，动作如此迅速，让我想起他以前的好意，最后我递给了他一个装有大约一鳃白兰地的面包。他喝了一部分，然后把剩下的带到甲板上，与他的上级分享（我想）。

A little after, the captain came (as was agreed) to one of the windows, and stood there in the rain, with his arm in a sling, and looking stern and pale, and so old that my heart smote me for having fired upon him.
不久之后，船长（按照约定）来到一扇窗户前，站在雨中，手臂上吊着，看上去严肃而苍白，苍老得让我的心因向我开枪而感到震惊。他。

Alan at once held a pistol in his face.
艾伦立刻用手枪指着自己的脸。

‘Put that thing up!’ said the captain. ‘Have I not passed my word, sir? or do ye seek to affront me?’
“把那个东西收起来！”船长说。 “我没有兑现诺言吗，先生？还是你们想冒犯我？

‘Captain,’ says Alan, ‘I doubt your word is a breakable. Last night ye haggled and argle-bargled like an apple-wife; and then passed me your word, and gave me your hand to back it; and ye ken very well what was the upshot. Be damned to your word!’ says he.
“队长，”艾伦说，“我怀疑你的话是否可靠。昨晚你们像个苹果老婆一样讨价还价，吵吵嚷嚷；然后把你的话传给我，并伸出你的手来支持它；叶肯很清楚结果是什么。他说，信守诺言！

‘Well, well, sir,’ said the captain, ‘ye’ll get little good by swearing.’ (And truly that was a fault of which the captain was quite free.) ‘But we have other things to speak,’ he continued, bitterly. ‘Ye’ve made a sore hash of my brig; I haven’t hands enough left to work her; and my first officer (whom I could ill spare) has got your sword throughout his vitals, and passed without speech. There is nothing left me, sir, but to put back into the port of Glasgow after hands; and there (by your leave) ye will find them that are better able to talk to you.’
“好吧，好吧，先生，”船长说，“你说脏话是没有什么好处的。”（确实，船长完全没有犯这个错误。）“但是我们还有其他事情要说，”他继续，痛苦地。 “你们把我的双桅船搞得一团糟；我的手不够了，没法帮她干活；我的大副（我无法饶恕他）已经用你的剑刺穿了他的要害，然后一声不吭地走了。先生，我什么也没有剩下，只能在人手之后送回格拉斯哥港；在那里（经您许可）您会发现他们能够更好地与您交谈。

‘Ay?’ said Alan; ‘and faith, I’ll have a talk with them mysel’! Unless there’s naebody speaks English in that town, I have a bonny tale for them. Fifteen tarry sailors upon the one side, and a man and a halfling boy upon the other! O, man, it’s peetiful!’
“嗯？”艾伦说。 “我相信，我会亲自和他们谈谈”！除非那个镇上没有人会说英语，否则我有一个美好的故事给他们听。一侧是十五个柏油水手，另一侧是一个男人和一个半身人男孩！哦，伙计，这真是太小气了！

Hoseason flushed red.
霍西森脸红了。

‘No,’ continued Alan, ‘that’ll no do. Ye’ll just have to set me ashore as we agreed.’
“不，”艾伦继续说，“那不行。”你们只需按照我们商定的方式把我送上岸即可。

‘Ay,’ said Hoseason, ‘but my first officer is dead — ye ken best how. There’s none of the rest of us acquaint with this coast, sir; and it’s one very dangerous to ships.’
“是的，”霍西森说，“但是我的大副死了——你知道怎么死的。”先生，我们其他人都不熟悉这个海岸。这对船舶来说非常危险。”

‘I give ye your choice,’ says Alan. ‘Set me on dry ground in Appin, or Ardgour, or in Morven, or Arisaig, or Morar; or, in brief, where ye please, within thirty miles of my own country; except in a country of the Campbells. That’s a broad target. If ye miss that, ye must be as feckless at the sailoring as I have found ye at the fighting. Why, my poor country people in their bit cobles[16] pass from island to island in all weathers, ay, and by night too, for the matter of that.’
“我让你们选择，”艾伦说。 ‘把我放在阿平、阿德古尔、莫文、阿里赛格、莫拉尔的干燥地上；或者，简而言之，只要你愿意，就可以在距我祖国三十英里以内的地方；坎贝尔国家除外。这是一个广泛的目标。如果你错过了这一点，那么你在航海方面一定是像我在战斗中发现的那样不负责任。为什么，我可怜的乡下人穿着他们的小鹅卵石[16]，无论天气如何，从一个岛屿到另一个岛屿，哎，就这一点而言，甚至在晚上也是如此。

[16]Coble: a small boat used in fishing.
[16]Coble：捕鱼用的小船。

‘A coble’s not a ship’ sir’ said the captain. ‘It has nae draught of water.’
“长官，缆绳不是船，”船长说道。 “它没有水流。”

‘Well, then, to Glasgow if ye list!’ says Alan. ‘We’ll have the laugh of ye at the least.’
“那么，如果你愿意的话，就去格拉斯哥吧！”艾伦说。 “至少我们会得到你们的欢笑。”

‘My mind runs little upon laughing,’ said the captain. ‘But all this will cost money, sir.’
“我一笑就心不在焉，”船长说。 “但是这一切都需要花钱，先生。”

‘Well, sir’ says Alan, ‘I am nae weathercock. Thirty guineas, if ye land me on the sea-side; and sixty, if ye put me in the Linnhe Loch.’
“好吧，先生，”艾伦说，“我不是风向标。”如果你们把我送到海边，三十几尼；如果你们把我放进林尼湖的话，六十岁。

‘But see, sir, where we lie, we are but a few hours’ sail from Ardnamurchan,’ said Hoseason. ‘Give me sixty, and I’ll set ye there.’
“但是，先生，你看，我们所在的位置，距离阿德纳默亨只有几个小时的航程，”霍西森说。 “给我六十，我就给你安排。”

‘ And I’m to wear my brogues and run jeopardy of the red-coats to please you?’ cries Alan. ‘No, sir; if ye want sixty guineas earn them, and set me in my own country.’
“我要穿布洛克鞋，冒着红大衣的危险来取悦你吗？”艾伦喊道。 '不，先生;如果你们想要六十几尼，就赚吧，然后让我回到自己的国家。”

‘It’s to risk the brig, sir,’ said the captain, ‘and your own lives along with her.’
“这是冒着双桅船的危险，长官，”船长说，“还有你和她的生命。”

‘Take it or want it,’ says Alan.
“接受或想要它，”艾伦说。

‘Could ye pilot us at all?’ asked the captain, who was frowning to himself.
“你能驾驶我们吗？”船长皱着眉头问道。

‘Well, it’s doubtful,’ said Alan. ‘I’m more of a fighting man (as ye have seen for yoursel’) than a sailor-man. But I have been often enough picked up and set down upon this coast, and should ken something of the lie of it.’
“嗯，这值得怀疑，”艾伦说。 “我更像是一个战士（正如你们亲眼所见的那样）”而不是一个水手。但我已经经常在这片海岸上被人接起或放下，应该能看出一些谎言。”

The captain shook his head, still frowning.
船长摇了摇头，仍然皱着眉头。

‘If I had lost less money on this unchancy cruise,’ says he, ‘I would see you in a rope’s end before I risked my brig, sir. But be it as ye will. As soon as I get a slant of wind (and there’s some coming, or I’m the more mistaken) I’ll put it in hand. But there’s one thing more. We may meet in with a king’s ship and she may lay us aboard, sir, with no blame of mine: they keep the cruisers thick upon this coast, ye ken who for. Now, sir, if that was to befall, ye might leave the money.’
“如果我在这次危险的航行中损失的钱少一点，”他说，“在我冒着我的双桅船的风险之前，我就会看到你陷入困境，先生。”但随你便吧。一旦我得到一丝风（并且有一些风来了，或者我错得更远），我就会把它放在手里。但还有一件事。我们可能会遇到一艘国王的船，她可能会把我们放在船上，先生，这不是我的错：他们让巡洋舰密集地驻扎在这个海岸上，你们知道是为了谁。现在，先生，如果发生这种情况，您可以留下这笔钱。

‘Captain,’ says Alan, ‘if ye see a pennant, it shall be your part to run away. And now, as I hear you’re a little short of brandy in the fore-part, I’ll offer ye a change: a bottle of brandy against two buckets of water.’
“队长，”艾伦说，“如果你看到一面三角旗，你就得逃跑。”现在，我听说你前半部分缺少白兰地，我就给你一个改变：一瓶白兰地兑两桶水。

That was the last clause of the treaty, and was duly executed on both sides; so that Alan and I could at last wash out the round-house and be quit of the memorials of those whom we had slain, and the captain and Mr. Riach could be happy again in their own way, the name of which was drink.
这是条约的最后一项条款，双方都正式执行了。这样，艾伦和我终于可以清理圆屋，不再去纪念那些被我们杀死的人了，而船长和里亚奇先生也可以以他们自己的方式再次快乐起来，这种方式的名字就是喝酒。

CHAPTER XII
第十二章


I HEAR OF THE ‘RED FOX”
我听说过“红狐狸”

Before we had done cleaning out the round-house, a breeze sprang up from a little to the east of north. This blew off the rain and brought out the sun.
还没等我们把圆屋清理干净，一阵微风从偏北的东边吹来。这吹散了雨水，带来了阳光。

And here I must explain; and the reader would do well to look at a map. On the day when the fog fell and we ran down Alan’s boat, we had been running through the Little Minch. At dawn after the battle, we lay becalmed to the east of the Isle of Canna or between that and Isle Eriska in the chain of the Long Island. Now to get from there to the Linnhe Loch, the straight course was through the narrows of the Sound of Mull. But the captain had no chart; he was afraid to trust his brig so deep among the islands; and the wind serving well, he preferred to go by west of Tiree and come up under the southern coast of the great Isle of Mull.
在这里我必须解释一下；读者最好看一下地图。那天起雾，我们跑下艾伦的船，我们一直在穿过小明奇。战斗结束后的黎明时分，我们平静地躺在美人蕉岛以东，或者在美人蕉岛和长岛链中的埃里斯卡岛之间。现在，要从那里到达林尼湖，必须穿过马尔海峡的狭窄地带。但船长没有海图；他不敢相信他的双桅船深入岛屿之中。由于风势良好，他更愿意从泰里以西走，到达伟大的马尔岛的南海岸。

All day the breeze held in the same point, and rather freshened than died down; and towards afternoon, a swell began to set in from round the outer Hebrides. Our course, to go round about the inner isles, was to the west of south, so that at first we had this swell upon our beam, and were much rolled about. But after nightfall, when we had turned the end of Tiree and began to head more to the east, the sea came right astern.
一整天，微风都聚集在同一个地方，与其说是减弱，不如说是清新。临近下午，海浪开始从赫布里底群岛外海涌来。我们绕内岛航行的航线是在南边的西边，所以一开始我们的横梁上有海浪，而且被滚得滚滚。但夜幕降临后，当我们转过提里的尽头并开始向东行驶时，大海就出现在船尾。

Meanwhile, the early part of the day, before the swell came up, was very pleasant; sailing, as we were, in a bright sunshine and with many mountainous islands upon different sides. Alan and I sat in the round-house with the doors open on each side (the wind being straight astern), and smoked a pipe or two of the captain’s fine tobacco. It was at this time we heard each other’s stories, which was the more important to me, as I gained some knowledge of that wild Highland country on which I was so soon to land. In those days, so close on the back of the great rebellion, it was needful a man should know what he was doing when he went upon the heather.
与此同时，当天早些时候，在海浪来临之前，天气非常宜人。和我们一样，在明媚的阳光下航行，两边都是许多多山的岛屿。艾伦和我坐在圆屋里，两边的门都开着（风正对着船尾），抽了一两斗船长的优质烟草​​。正是在这个时候，我们听到了彼此的故事，这对我来说更重要，因为我对即将登陆的那个狂野的高地有了一些了解。在那些日子里，大叛乱刚刚结束，一个人在踏上石南花时必须知道自己在做什么。

It was I that showed the example, telling him all my misfortune; which he heard with great good-nature. Only, when I came to mention that good friend of mine, Mr. Campbell the minister, Alan fired up and cried out that he hated all that were of that name.
是我给他做了榜样，告诉他我所有的不幸；他非常善意地听到了这句话。只是，当我提到我的好朋友、部长坎贝尔先生时，艾伦就火冒三丈，大声喊道，他讨厌所有叫这个名字的人。

‘Why,’ said I, ‘he is a man you should be proud to give your hand to.’
“为什么，”我说，“他是一个你应该为向他伸出援助之手而感到自豪的人。”

‘I know nothing I would help a Campbell to,’ says he, ‘unless it was a leaden bullet. I would hunt all of that name like blackcocks. If I lay dying, I would crawl upon my knees to my chamber window for a shot at one.’
“我不知道我能帮坎贝尔做什么，”他说，“除非是一颗铅弹。”我会像黑鸡一样猎杀所有这个名字。如果我快要死了，我会跪着爬到我房间的窗户前，向其中一枪射击。

‘Why, Alan,’ I cried, ‘what ails ye at the Campbells?’
“怎么了，艾伦，”我喊道，“你在坎贝尔家怎么了？”

‘Well,’ says he, ‘ye ken very well that I am an Appin Stewart, and the Campbells have long harried and wasted those of my name; ay, and got lands of us by treachery—but never with the sword,’ he cried loudly, and with the word brought down his fist upon the table. But I paid the less attention to this, for I knew it was usually said by those who have the underhand. ‘There’s more than that,’ he continued, ‘and all in the same story: lying words, lying papers, tricks fit for a peddler, and the show of what’s legal over all, to make a man the more angry.’
“好吧，”他说，“你们很清楚，我是阿平·斯图尔特家族的一员，而坎贝尔家族长期以来一直在骚扰和浪费我的名字。哎呀，通过背叛获得了我们的土地——但从来没有用剑，”他大声喊道，说完就把拳头放在桌子上。但我对此不太在意，因为我知道这通常是那些不怀好意的人说的。 “不仅如此，”他继续说道，“而且全都在同一个故事中：撒谎的言语、撒谎的文件、适合小贩的伎俩，以及展示什么是合法的，让一个人更加愤怒。”

‘You that are so wasteful of your buttons,’ said I, ‘I can hardly think you would be a good judge of business.’
“你太浪费你的纽扣了，”我说，“我很难想象你会成为一个好的商业判断者。”

‘Ah!’ says he, falling again to smiling, ‘I got my wastefulness from the same man I got the buttons from; and that was my poor father, Duncan Stewart, grace be to him! He was the prettiest man of his kindred; and the best swordsman in the Hielands, David, and that is the same as to say, in all the world, I should ken, for it was him that taught me. He was in the Black Watch, when first it was mustered; and, like other gentlemen privates, had a gillie at his back to carry his firelock for him on the march. Well, the King, it appears, was wishful to see Hieland swordsmanship; and my father and three more were chosen out and sent to London town, to let him see it at the best. So they were had into the palace and showed the whole art of the sword for two hours at a stretch, before King George and Queen Carline, and the Butcher Cumberland, and many more of whom I havenae mind. And when they were through, the King (for all he was a rank usurper) spoke them fair and gave each man three guineas in his hand. Now, as they were going out of the palace, they had a porter’s lodge to go, by; and it came in on my father, as he was perhaps the first private Hieland gentleman that had ever gone by that door, it was right he should give the poor porter a proper notion of their quality. So he gives the King’s three guineas into the man’s hand, as if it was his common custom; the three others that came behind him did the same; and there they were on the street, never a penny the better for their pains. Some say it was one, that was the first to fee the King’s porter; and some say it was another; but the truth of it is, that it was Duncan Stewart, as I am willing to prove with either sword or pistol. And that was the father that I had, God rest him!’
“啊！”他说道，再次微笑起来，“我的浪费是从我得到纽扣的那个人那里得到的；”那就是我可怜的父亲，邓肯·斯图尔特，愿上帝保佑他！他是同族中最漂亮的一个。大卫是荷兰最好的剑客，这就是说，我应该知道，是世界上最好的剑客，因为是他教我的。当黑色守卫队第一次集结时，他就在其中。而且，像其他绅士列兵一样，他背后有一个吉利，在行军时为他携带火枪。好吧，看来国王一厢情愿地想看看希兰德的剑术；我的父亲和另外三个人被挑选出来并送到伦敦镇，让他看到最好的情况。于是他们被带进了宫殿，在乔治国王、卡琳王后、屠夫坎伯兰以及其他许多我不喜欢的人面前连续展示了两个小时的剑术。当他们结束时，国王（尽管他是一位篡位者）对他们进行了公正的评价，并给了每个人手中的三几尼。现在，当他们走出宫殿时，他们要经过一家门房。这件事发生在我父亲身上，因为他可能是第一个经过这扇门的希兰私人绅士，他应该让可怜的搬运工对它们的质量有一个正确的认识。于是，他把国王的三基尼交到了这个人的手里，就好像这是他的惯例一样。跟在他身后的另外三人也做了同样的事。他们流落街头，所受的痛苦却一分钱也没有得到改善。有人说是第一个向国王的搬运工付钱的人。有人说这是另一个；但事实是，这是邓肯·斯图尔特，我愿意用剑或手枪来证明。这就是我的父亲，愿上帝安息他！

‘I think he was not the man to leave you rich,’ said I.
“我认为他不是让你变得富有的人，”我说。

‘And that’s true,’ said Alan. ‘He left me my breeks to cover me, and little besides. And that was how I came to enlist, which was a black spot upon my character at the best of times, and would still be a sore job for me if I fell among the red-coats.’
“确实如此，”艾伦说。 “他给我留下了我的休息时间来遮盖我的身体，除此之外就没有什么了。这就是我入伍的原因，即使在最好的时候，这也是我性格上的一个黑点，如果我落入红大衣之中，对我来说仍然是一项痛苦的工作。

‘What,’ cried I, ‘were you in the English army?’
“什么，”我喊道，“你是英国军队的成员吗？”

‘That was I,’ said Alan. ‘But I deserted to the right side at Preston Pans — and that’s some comfort.’
“那就是我，”艾伦说。 “但我在普雷斯顿潘斯逃到了右侧——这也算是一种安慰。”

I could scarcely share this view: holding desertion under arms for an unpardonable fault in honour. But for all I was so young, I was wiser than say my thought. ‘Dear, dear,’ says I, ‘the punishment is death.’
我很难同意这样的观点：因为荣誉上的不可饶恕的过错而将逃兵归咎于武装。但尽管我还那么年轻，我还是比说出自己的想法更明智。 “亲爱的，亲爱的，”我说，“惩罚就是死亡。”

‘Ay’ said he, ‘if they got hands on me, it would be a short shrift and a lang tow for Alan! But I have the King of France’s commission in my pocket, which would aye be some protection.’
“哎呀，”他说，“如果他们抓到了我，那对艾伦来说就是一种蔑视和侮辱！”但我口袋里有法国国王的委任状，这可能会有所保护。”

‘I misdoubt it much,’ said I.
“我对此深表怀疑，”我说道。

‘I have doubts mysel’,’ said Alan drily.
“我自己也有疑问。”艾伦冷冷地说。

‘And, good heaven, man,’ cried I, ‘you that are a condemned rebel, and a deserter, and a man of the French King’s — what tempts ye back into this country? It’s a braving of Providence.’
“天哪，伙计，”我喊道，“你是一个被定罪的叛逆者，一个逃兵，一个法国国王的人——是什么诱惑你回到这个国家？这是对普罗维登斯的勇敢。

‘Tut!’ says Alan, ‘I have been back every year since forty-six!’
“哎呀！”艾伦说，“从四十六岁起，我每年都会回来！”

‘And what brings ye, man?’ cried I.
“那你带来了什么，伙计？”我喊道。

‘Well, ye see, I weary for my friends and country,’ said he. ‘France is a braw place, nae doubt; but I weary for the heather and the deer. And then I have bit things that I attend to. Whiles I pick up a few lads to serve the King of France: recruits, ye see; and that’s aye a little money. But the heart of the matter is the business of my chief, Ardshiel.’
“好吧，你看，我为我的朋友和国家感到厌倦，”他说。 “毫无疑问，法国是一个充满斗殴的地方；但我厌倦了石南花和鹿。然后我还有一些我要处理的事情。当我挑选一些小伙子为法国国王服务时：你看，是新兵；这只是一点钱。但问题的核心是我的酋长阿德希尔的事。”

‘I thought they called your chief Appin,’ said I.
“我以为他们给你们的酋长阿平打了电话，”我说。

‘Ay, but Ardshiel is the captain of the clan,’ said he, which scarcely cleared my mind. ‘Ye see, David, he that was all his life so great a man, and come of the blood and bearing the name of kings, is now brought down to live in a French town like a poor and private person. He that had four hundred swords at his whistle, I have seen, with these eyes of mine, buying butter in the market-place, and taking it home in a kale-leaf. This is not only a pain but a disgrace to us of his family and clan. There are the bairns forby, the children and the hope of Appin, that must be learned their letters and how to hold a sword, in that far country. Now, the tenants of Appin have to pay a rent to King George; but their hearts are staunch, they are true to their chief; and what with love and a bit of pressure, and maybe a threat or two, the poor folk scrape up a second rent for Ardshiel. Well, David, I’m the hand that carries it.’ And he struck the belt about his body, so that the guineas rang.
“是的，但阿德希尔是部落的首领，”他说，这让我的思绪几乎无法清醒。 “你看，大卫，他一生都是如此伟大的人，有国王的血统，有国王的名字，现在却像一个穷人和私人一样生活在法国的一个小镇上。我用我的眼睛亲眼目睹了那个口哨声里有四百把剑的人，在市场上买黄油，然后用羽衣甘蓝叶带回家。这对我们他的家人和家族来说，不仅是一种痛苦，更是一种耻辱。那里有拜恩·福比、孩子们和阿平的希望，他们必须在那个遥远的国家学习他们的字母以及如何持剑。现在，阿平的租户必须向乔治国王支付租金；但他们的心是坚定的，他们忠于自己的首领；凭借着爱和一点压力，也许还有一两次威胁，这些可怜的人们为阿德希尔筹集了第二笔租金。好吧，大卫，我就是拿着它的手。”他敲打着身上的带子，金币就响了。

‘Do they pay both?’ cried I.
“他们都付钱吗？”我喊道。

‘Ay, David, both,’ says he.
“是的，大卫，两者都是，”他说。

‘What! two rents?’ I repeated.
'什么！ “两笔房租？”我重复道。

‘Ay, David,’ said he. ‘I told a different tale to yon captain man; but this is the truth of it. And it’s wonderful to me how little pressure is needed. But that’s the handiwork of my good kinsman and my father’s friend, James of the Glens: James Stewart, that is: Ardshiel’s half-brother. He it is that gets the money in, and does the management.’
“是的，大卫，”他说。 “我给你的船长讲了一个不同的故事；但这就是事实。对我来说，这太棒了，只需要很少的压力。但这是我的好亲戚和我父亲的朋友，峡谷的詹姆斯的杰作：詹姆斯·斯图尔特，即：阿德希尔的同父异母的兄弟。正是他获得了资金并进行了管理。

This was the first time I heard the name of that James Stewart, who was afterwards so famous at the time of his hanging. But I took little heed at the moment, for all my mind was occupied with the generosity of these poor Highlanders.
这是我第一次听到詹姆斯·斯图尔特的名字，他在被绞死时已经非常出名了。但此刻我并没有在意，因为我的全部心思都被这些可怜的高地人的慷慨所占据。

‘I call it noble,’ I cried. ‘I’m a Whig, or little better; but I call it noble.’
“我称之为高贵，”我喊道。 “我是辉格党人，或者好一点；但我称其为高贵。

‘Ay’ said he, ‘ye’re a Whig, but ye’re a gentleman; and that’s what does it. Now, if ye were one of the cursed race of Campbell, ye would gnash your teeth to hear tell of it. If ye were the Red Fox...’ And at that name, his teeth shut together, and he ceased speaking. I have seen many a grim face, but never a grimmer than Alan’s when he had named the Red Fox.
“是的，”他说，“你们是辉格党人，但你们是绅士；这就是它的作用。现在，如果你们是坎贝尔被诅咒的种族之一，你们会咬牙切齿地听这件事。如果你们是红狐狸……”听到这个名字，他的牙齿咬紧，不再说话了。我见过很多人冷酷的面孔，但从来没有比艾伦命名红狐狸时更冷酷的。

‘And who is the Red Fox?’ I asked, daunted, but still curious.
“那红狐狸是谁？”我惊恐地问道，但仍然很好奇。

‘Who is he?’ cried Alan. ‘Well, and I’ll tell you that. When the men of the clans were broken at Culloden, and the good cause went down, and the horses rode over the fetlocks in the best blood of the north, Ardshiel had to flee like a poor deer upon the mountains — he and his lady and his bairns. A sair job we had of it before we got him shipped; and while he still lay in the heather, the English rogues, that couldnae come at his life, were striking at his rights. They stripped him of his powers; they stripped him of his lands; they plucked the weapons from the hands of his clansmen, that had borne arms for thirty centuries; ay, and the very clothes off their backs — so that it’s now a sin to wear a tartan plaid, and a man may be cast into a gaol if he has but a kilt about his legs. One thing they couldnae kill. That was the love the clansmen bore their chief. These guineas are the proof of it. And now, in there steps a man, a Campbell, red-headed Colin of Glenure ——‘
“他是谁？”艾伦喊道。 ‘好吧，我会告诉你的。当部落的男人们在卡洛登被击溃，正义的事业失败了，马匹骑着北方最好的血统的球节时，阿德希尔不得不像一头可怜的鹿一样在山上逃亡——他和他的夫人以及他的孩子。在我们把他运走之前，我们已经完成了一项工作；当他还躺在石南丛中时，那些无法夺走他性命的英国盗贼就开始侵犯他的权利。他们剥夺了他的权力；他们剥夺了他的土地；他们从他的族人手中夺走了武器，这些人已经携带武器三十个世纪了。是的，连他们背上的衣服都脱下来了——所以现在穿格子呢格子花呢是一种罪过，如果一个人腿上只穿了一条苏格兰短裙，他可能会被扔进监狱。他们无法杀死一件事。这就是族人对族长的爱。这些几尼就是证明。现在，进来了一个男人，坎贝尔，红发的格伦努尔科林——”

‘Is that him you call the Red Fox?’ said I.
“这就是你所说的红狐狸吗？”我问道。

‘Will ye bring me his brush?’ cries Alan, fiercely. ‘Ay, that’s the man. In he steps, and gets papers from King George, to be so-called King’s factor on the lands of Appin. And at first he sings small, and is hail-fellow-well-met with Sheamus — that’s James of the Glens, my chieftain’s agent. But by-and-by, that came to his ears that I have just told you; how the poor commons of Appin, the farmers and the crofters and the boumen, were wringing their very plaids to get a second rent, and send it over-seas for Ardshiel and his poor bairns. What was it ye called it, when I told ye?’
“你能把他的画笔拿给我吗？”艾伦激烈地喊道。 ‘哎呀，就是那个男人。他迈步向前，从乔治国王那里得到了文件，成为阿平土地上所谓的国王因素。起初，他唱得小声，和希莫斯（Sheamus）是好朋友——那是峡谷的詹姆斯，我酋长的经纪人。但渐渐地，我刚才告诉你的话传到了他的耳朵里；阿平的穷人，农民、佃农和布曼，如何绞尽脑汁地挣取第二笔租金，然后将其寄往海外，送给阿德谢尔和他可怜的孩子们。当我告诉你的时候，你怎么称呼它？

‘I called it noble, Alan,’ said I.
“我称之为高贵，艾伦，”我说。

‘And you little better than a common Whig!’ cries Alan. ‘But when it came to Colin Roy, the black Campbell blood in him ran wild. He sat gnashing his teeth at the wine table. What! should a Stewart get a bite of bread, and him not be able to prevent it? Ah! Red Fox, if ever I hold you at a gun’s end, the Lord have pity upon ye!’ (Alan stopped to swallow down his anger.) ‘Well, David, what does he do? He declares all the farms to let. And, thinks he, in his black heart, ‘I’ll soon get other tenants that’ll overbid these Stewarts, and Maccolls, and Macrobs’ (for these are all names in my clan, David); ‘and then,’ thinks he, ‘Ardshiel will have to hold his bonnet on a French roadside.’’
“而你比一个普通的辉格党好不了多少！”艾伦喊道。 “但是当谈到科林·罗伊时，他身上的黑色坎贝尔血统就变得疯狂了。他坐在酒桌上咬牙切齿。什么！斯图尔特是否应该咬一口面包，而他又无法阻止呢？啊!红狐狸，如果我用枪指着你，上帝怜悯你！”（艾伦停下来咽下他的愤怒。）“好吧，大卫，他做了什么？他宣布出租所有农场。而且，他内心深处认为，“我很快就会找到其他房客，他们的出价会高于这些斯图尔特、麦科尔和马克罗布”（因为这些都是我家族的名字，大卫）； “然后，”他想，“阿德希尔将不得不在法国路边拿着他的帽子。”

‘Well,’ said I, ‘what followed?’
“好吧，”我说，“接下来发生了什么？”

Alan laid down his pipe, which he had long since suffered to go out, and set his two hands upon his knees.
艾伦放下早已不忍熄灭的烟斗，将两只手放在膝盖上。

‘Ay,’ said he, ‘ye’ll never guess that! For these same Stewarts, and Maccolls, and Macrobs (that had two rents to pay, one to King George by stark force, and one to Ardshiel by natural kindness) offered him a better price than any Campbell in all broad Scotland; and far he sent seeking them — as far as to the sides of Clyde and the cross of Edinburgh — seeking, and fleeching, and begging them to come, where there was a Stewart to be starved and a red-headed hound of a Campbell to be pleasured!’
“哎呀，”他说，“你绝对猜不到！对于这些斯图尔特家族、麦科尔家族和马克罗布家族（他们需要支付两笔租金，一份是通过严厉的武力支付给乔治国王，另一份是通过自然的仁慈支付给阿德希尔），他为他提供了比整个苏格兰任何坎贝尔都更好的价格；因为他们的价格比整个苏格兰的坎贝尔都高。他派人去很远的地方寻找他们——一直到克莱德的两侧和爱丁堡的十字路口——寻找，乞求他们来，那里有一只斯图尔特要挨饿，一只红发的坎贝尔猎犬要来。很高兴！

‘Well, Alan,’ said I, ‘that is a strange story, and a fine one, too. And Whig as I may be, I am glad the man was beaten.’
“嗯，艾伦，”我说，“这是一个奇怪的故事，也是一个很好的故事。尽管我可能是辉格党人，但我很高兴这个人被打败了。

‘Him beaten?’ echoed Alan. ‘It’s little ye ken of Campbells, and less of the Red Fox. Him beaten? No: nor will be, till his blood’s on the hillside! But if the day comes, David man, that I can find time and leisure for a bit of hunting, there grows not enough heather in all Scotland to hide him from my vengeance!’
“他被打了吗？”艾伦附和道。 “这是坎贝尔的小野肯，而不是红狐。”他被打了？不：也不会，直到他的血洒满山坡！但是，大卫，如果有一天我能找到时间和闲暇去打猎，那么整个苏格兰都没有足够的石南花来保护他免受我的报复！

‘Man Alan,’ said I, ‘ye are neither very wise nor very Christian to blow off so many words of anger. They will do the man ye call the Fox no harm, and yourself no good. Tell me your tale plainly out. What did he next?’
“艾伦先生，”我说，“你既不明智，也不非常基督徒，不会说出这么多愤怒的话。他们不会对你们称之为狐狸的人造成伤害，对你们自己也没有好处。清楚地告诉我你的故事。他接下来做什么？

‘And that’s a good observe, David,’ said Alan. ‘Troth and indeed, they will do him no harm; the more’s the pity! And barring that about Christianity (of which my opinion is quite otherwise, or I would be nae Christian), I am much of your mind.’
“这是一个很好的观察，大卫，”艾伦说。 “说实话，他们不会伤害他；越多越可惜！除非关于基督教（我的观点完全不同，否则我就不是基督教徒了），我很同意你的想法。

‘Opinion here or opinion there,’ said I, ‘it’s a kent thing that Christianity forbids revenge.’
“这里有意见，那里有意见，”我说，“基督教禁止复仇，这是一件很明确的事情。”

‘Ay’ said he, ‘it’s well seen it was a Campbell taught ye! It would be a convenient world for them and their sort, if there was no such a thing as a lad and a gun behind a heather bush! But that’s nothing to the point. This is what he did.’
“哎呀，”他说，“很明显，这是坎贝尔教给你们的！”如果石南丛后面没有一个小伙子和一把枪这样的东西，这对他们和他们的同类来说将是一个方便的世界！但这没有什么意义。这就是他所做的。

‘Ay’ said I, ‘come to that.’
“嗯，”我说，“就这样吧。”

‘Well, David,’ said he, ‘since he couldnae be rid of the loyal commons by fair means, he swore he would be rid of them by foul. Ardshiel was to starve: that was the thing he aimed at. And since them that fed him in his exile wouldnae be bought out — right or wrong, he would drive them out. Therefore he sent for lawyers, and papers, and red-coats to stand at his back. And the kindly folk of that country must all pack and tramp, every father’s son out of his father’s house, and out of the place where he was bred and fed, and played when he was a callant. And who are to succeed them? Bare-leggit beggars! King George is to whistle for his rents; he maun dow with less; he can spread his butter thinner: what cares Red Colin? If he can hurt Ardshiel, he has his wish; if he can pluck the meat from my chieftain’s table, and the bit toys out of his children’s hands, he will gang hame singing to Glenure!’
“好吧，大卫，”他说，“既然他无法通过公平的手段摆脱忠诚的平民，他发誓他会通过邪恶的手段摆脱他们。阿德希尔要挨饿：这就是他的目标。而且，既然那些在他流亡期间供养他的人不会被买断——无论对错，他都会把他们赶出去。因此，他派人请了律师、文件和红大褂站在他身后。那个国家的善良人民必须打包行李，把每个父亲的儿子赶出他父亲的房子，离开他小时候养育、喂养、玩耍的地方。谁将接替他们？光着腿的乞丐！乔治国王将吹口哨索取租金；他觉得少了；他可以将黄油涂得更薄：红科林在乎什么？如果他能伤害阿德希尔，他就如愿以偿了；如果他能从我酋长的餐桌上夺走肉，从他的孩子们手中夺走玩具，他就会和格伦纽尔一起唱歌！

‘Let me have a word,’ said I. ‘Be sure, if they take less rents, be sure Government has a finger in the pie. It’s not this Campbell’s fault, man — it’s his orders. And if ye killed this Colin to-morrow, what better would ye be? There would be another factor in his shoes, as fast as spur can drive.’
“让我说句话，”我说，“当然，如果他们收取更少的租金，请确保政府插手其中。”这不是坎贝尔的错，伙计——这是他的命令。如果你明天就杀了这个科林，你会怎样呢？他的鞋子还有另一个因素，那就是马刺能开得有多快。

‘Ye’re a good lad in a fight,’ said Alan; ‘but, man! ye have Whig blood in ye!’
“你是一个打架的好小伙子，”艾伦说。 ‘但是，伙计！你们有辉格​​党血统！

He spoke kindly enough, but there was so much anger under his contempt that I thought it was wise to change the conversation. I expressed my wonder how, with the Highlands covered with troops, and guarded like a city in a siege, a man in his situation could come and go without arrest.
他说话很友善，但他的轻蔑之下却充满了愤怒，所以我认为改变谈话是明智的。我表达了我的疑问，在高地布满军队、像被围困的城市一样守卫的情况下，像他这样的人怎么能出入而不被逮捕。

‘It’s easier than ye would think,’ said Alan. ‘A bare hillside (ye see) is like all one road; if there’s a sentry at one place, ye just go by another. And then the heather’s a great help. And everywhere there are friends’ houses and friends’ byres and haystacks. And besides, when folk talk of a country covered with troops, it’s but a kind of a byword at the best. A soldier covers nae mair of it than his boot-soles. I have fished a water with a sentry on the other side of the brae, and killed a fine trout; and I have sat in a heather bush within six feet of another, and learned a real bonny tune from his whistling. This was it,’ said he, and whistled me the air.
“这比你想象的要容易，”艾伦说。 “光秃秃的山坡（你看）就像一条路；如果某个地方有哨兵，你们就从另一个地方走过去。石南花是一个很大的帮助。到处都是朋友的房子、朋友的牛栏和干草堆。此外，当人们谈论一个布满军队的国家时，这充其量只是一个代名词。士兵所穿的衣服连靴底都不如。我曾在布雷的另一边有哨兵的水域里钓鱼，并杀死了一条漂亮的鳟鱼；我坐在石南丛中，距离另一个灌木丛不到六英尺，从他的口哨声中学会了真正优美的曲调。就是这样，”他一边说着，一边向我吹口哨。

‘And then, besides,’ he continued, ‘it’s no sae bad now as it was in forty-six. The Hielands are what they call pacified. Small wonder, with never a gun or a sword left from Cantyre to Cape Wrath, but what tenty[17] folk have hidden in their thatch! But what I would like to ken, David, is just how long? Not long, ye would think, with men like Ardshiel in exile and men like the Red Fox sitting birling the wine and oppressing the poor at home. But it’s a kittle thing to decide what folk’ll bear, and what they will not. Or why would Red Colin be riding his horse all over my poor country of Appin, and never a pretty lad to put a bullet in him?’
“而且，此外，”他继续说道，“现在的情况并不比四十六岁时那么糟糕。赫兰群岛被他们称为“平定的国家”。难怪，从坎泰尔到愤怒角，再也没有留下一把枪或一把剑，但茅草屋里藏着多少[17]个人呢！但大卫，我想问的是，到底需要多长时间？你们会想，不久之后，像阿德希尔这样的人就会流亡，而红狐这样的人就会坐在家里喝酒，压迫穷人。但决定人们能承受什么、不能承受什么却是一件小事。或者为什么红科林会骑着马走遍我可怜的阿平国家，却没有一个漂亮的小伙子向他开枪？

[17] Careful.
[17] 小心。

And with this Alan fell into a muse, and for a long time sate very sad and silent.
艾伦听了这话，陷入了沉思，很长一段时间都非常悲伤和沉默。

I will add the rest of what I have to say about my friend, that he was skilled in all kinds of music, but principally pipe-music; was a well-considered poet in his own tongue; had read several books both in French and English; was a dead shot, a good angler, and an excellent fencer with the small sword as well as with his own particular weapon. For his faults, they were on his face, and I now knew them all. But the worst of them, his childish propensity to take offence and to pick quarrels, he greatly laid aside in my case, out of regard for the battle of the round-house. But whether it was because I had done well myself, or because I had been a witness of his own much greater prowess, is more than I can tell. For though he had a great taste for courage in other men, yet he admired it most in Alan Breck.
我将补充关于我的朋友的其余内容，他精通各种音乐，但主要是管乐；是一位用自己的语言深思熟虑的诗人；读过几本法语和英语书籍；他是一位神枪手，一位优秀的钓鱼者，也是一位出色的击剑手，不仅使用小剑，还使用他自己的特殊武器。他的缺点都写在脸上，我现在全都知道了。但其中最糟糕的是，他幼稚的脾气，喜欢发怒和争吵，出于对圆屋之战的考虑，他在我的案子上大大地搁置了。但究竟是因为我自己做得很好，还是因为我亲眼目睹了他自己更伟大的能力，我无法判断。因为尽管他很欣赏其他人的勇气，但他最欣赏艾伦·布雷克的勇气。

CHAPTER XIII
第十三章


THE LOSS OF THE BRIG
双桅船的损失

It was already late at night, and as dark as it ever would be at that season of the year (and that is to say, it was still pretty bright), when Hoseason clapped his head into the round-house door.
当霍萨森把头撞进圆屋门时，已经是深夜了，和一年中的那个季节一样漆黑（也就是说，天还很亮）。

‘Here,’ said he, ‘come out and see if ye can pilot.’
“来吧，”他说，“出来看看你们是否会驾驶。”

‘Is this one of your tricks?’ asked Alan.
“这是你的伎俩之一吗？”艾伦问道。

‘Do I look like tricks?’ cries the captain. ‘I have other things to think of — my brig’s in danger!’
“我看起来像是在耍花招吗？”船长喊道。 “我还有其他事情要考虑——我的双桅船有危险！”

By the concerned look of his face, and, above all, by the sharp tones in which he spoke of his brig, it was plain to both of us he was in deadly earnest; and so Alan and I, with no great fear of treachery, stepped on deck.
从他脸上忧心忡忡的表情，尤其是他谈论他的双桅船时的尖锐语气，我们俩都清楚地看出他是极其认真的。于是艾伦和我就踏上了甲板，并不担心背叛。

The sky was clear; it blew hard, and was bitter cold; a great deal of daylight lingered; and the moon, which was nearly full, shone brightly. The brig was close hauled, so as to round the southwest corner of the Island of Mull, the hills of which (and Ben More above them all, with a wisp of mist upon the top of it) lay full upon the lar-board bow. Though it was no good point of sailing for the Covenant, she tore through the seas at a great rate, pitching and straining, and pursued by the westerly swell.
天空晴朗；风很大，而且很冷。大量的日光仍在徘徊。月亮快圆了，发出明亮的光芒。双桅船被近距离牵引，以便绕过马尔岛的西南角，那里的山丘（还有本莫尔在山上，山顶上有一缕薄雾）完全覆盖在左舷船头。虽然星盟号航行并不是什么好主意，但她仍以极快的速度在大海中航行，颠簸、用力，并被西风的海浪追赶。

Altogether it was no such ill night to keep the seas in; and I had begun to wonder what it was that sat so heavily upon the captain, when the brig rising suddenly on the top of a high swell, he pointed and cried to us to look. Away on the lee bow, a thing like a fountain rose out of the moonlit sea, and immediately after we heard a low sound of roaring.
总而言之，这个夜晚对于保持海水来说并不是那么糟糕。我开始想知道到底是什么如此沉重地压在船长身上，当双桅船突然在高浪的顶部升起时，他指着我们喊叫着让我们看。在下风的船头，一个像喷泉一样的东西从月光照射下的海中升起，紧接着我们就听到了低沉的咆哮声。

‘What do ye call that?’ asked the captain, gloomily.
“你们管这叫什么？”船长阴郁地问道。

‘The sea breaking on a reef,’ said Alan. ‘And now ye ken where it is; and what better would ye have?’
“海浪拍打着礁石，”艾伦说。 ‘现在你们知道它在哪里了；你们还有什么更好的呢？

‘Ay,’ said Hoseason, ‘if it was the only one.’
“哎呀，”霍西森说，“如果这是唯一的就好了。”

And sure enough, just as he spoke there came a second fountain farther to the south.
果然，就在他说话的时候，更南边的地方出现了第二个喷泉。

‘There!’ said Hoseason. ‘Ye see for yourself. If I had kent of these reefs, if I had had a chart, or if Shuan had been spared, it’s not sixty guineas, no, nor six hundred, would have made me risk my brig in sic a stoneyard! But you, sir, that was to pilot us, have ye never a word?’
“那儿！”霍西森说。 ‘你自己看看吧。如果我能看到这些珊瑚礁，如果我有一张海图，或者如果舒安幸免于难，那不是六十几尼，不，也不是六百几尼，会让我在石场里冒着我的双桅船的风险！但是您，先生，那是为了引导我们，您从来没有说过一句话吗？

‘I’m thinking,’ said Alan, ‘these’ll be what they call the Torran Rocks.’
“我在想，”艾伦说，“这些就是他们所说的托兰岩石。”

‘Are there many of them?’ says the captain.
“他们很多吗？”船长问道。

‘Truly, sir, I am nae pilot,’ said Alan; ‘but it sticks in my mind there are ten miles of them.’
“说实话，先生，我不是飞行员，”艾伦说。 “但我的脑海里一直记得，它们有十英里。”

Mr. Riach and the captain looked at each other.
里亚奇先生和船长面面相觑。

‘There’s a way through them, I suppose?’ said the captain.
“我想有办法穿过它们吧？”船长说。

‘Doubtless,’ said Alan, ‘but where? But it somehow runs in my mind once more that it is clearer under the land.’
“毫无疑问，”艾伦说，“但是在哪里呢？但不知何故，我的脑海里再次浮现出地面下的情况更加清晰。”

‘So?’ said Hoseason. ‘We’ll have to haul our wind then, Mr. Riach; we’ll have to come as near in about the end of Mull as we can take her, sir; and even then we’ll have the land to kep the wind off us, and that stoneyard on our lee. Well, we’re in for it now, and may as well crack on.’
“所以呢？”霍西森说。 “那么我们就得拉风了，里亚奇先生；我们必须尽可能接近马尔的尽头，才能带走她，先生；即便如此，我们也将拥有挡风的土地，以及我们下风处的石场。好吧，我们现在已经陷入困境，不妨继续努力。”

With that he gave an order to the steersman, and sent Riach to the foretop. There were only five men on deck, counting the officers; these being all that were fit (or, at least, both fit and willing) for their work. So, as I say, it fell to Mr. Riach to go aloft, and he sat there looking out and hailing the deck with news of all he saw.
说完，他向舵手下达了命令，然后把里亚奇送到了前甲板上。算上军官，甲板上只有五人。这些都是适合（或者至少适合且愿意）从事其工作的人。因此，正如我所说，上升到高处的责任落到了里亚奇先生身上，他坐在那里向外眺望，向甲板欢呼，讲述着他所看到的一切。

‘The sea to the south is thick,’ he cried; and then, after a while, ‘it does seem clearer in by the land.’
“南面的海水很厚，”他喊道。然后，过了一会儿，“在陆地上，情况似乎变得更清晰了。”

‘Well, sir,’ said Hoseason to Alan, ‘we’ll try your way of it. But I think I might as well trust to a blind fiddler. Pray God you’re right.’
“好吧，先生，”霍西森对艾伦说，“我们会尝试一下你的方法。”但我想我还不如信任一个盲人小提琴手。祈祷上帝你是对的。

‘Pray God I am!’ says Alan to me. ‘But where did I hear it? Well, well, it will be as it must.’
“上帝啊，我是！”艾伦对我说。 “可是我从哪里听到的呢？好吧，好吧，事情一定会这​​样的。”

As we got nearer to the turn of the land the reefs began to be sown here and there on our very path; and Mr. Riach sometimes cried down to us to change the course. Sometimes, indeed, none too soon; for one reef was so close on the brig’s weather board that when a sea burst upon it the lighter sprays fell upon her deck and wetted us like rain.
当我们接近陆地转弯处时，我们的道路上开始到处都长满了珊瑚礁。里亚奇先生有时会向我们哭诉，要求我们改变路线。有时候，确实，时机不早。因为其中一个礁石距离双桅船的挡风板非常近，当海水冲上它时，较轻的水花落在她的甲板上，像雨一样把我们淋湿。

The brightness of the night showed us these perils as clearly as by day, which was, perhaps, the more alarming. It showed me, too, the face of the captain as he stood by the steersman, now on one foot, now on the other, and sometimes blowing in his hands, but still listening and looking and as steady as steel. Neither he nor Mr. Riach had shown well in the fighting; but I saw they were brave in their own trade, and admired them all the more because I found Alan very white.
夜晚的亮度与白天一样清楚地向我们展示了这些危险，这也许更令人震惊。它也向我展示了船长的脸，他站在舵手旁边，时而一只脚，时而另一只脚，有时用手吹气，但仍然听着，看着，像钢铁一样坚定。他和里亚奇先生在战斗中都表现不佳。但我看到他们在自己的行业中很勇敢，并且更加钦佩他们，因为我发现艾伦非常白人。

‘Ochone, David,’ says he, ‘this is no the kind of death I fancy!’
“奥乔涅，大卫，”他说，“这不是我喜欢的死亡方式！”

‘What, Alan!’ I cried, ‘you’re not afraid?’
“什么，艾伦！”我喊道，“你不害怕吗？”

‘No,’ said he, wetting his lips, ‘but you’ll allow, yourself, it’s a cold ending.’
“不，”他润湿嘴唇说道，“但你自己会承认，这是一个冷酷的结局。”

By this time, now and then sheering to one side or the other to avoid a reef, but still hugging the wind and the land, we had got round Iona and begun to come alongside Mull. The tide at the tail of the land ran very strong, and threw the brig about. Two hands were put to the helm, and Hoseason himself would sometimes lend a help; and it was strange to see three strong men throw their weight upon the tiller, and it (like a living thing) struggle against and drive them back. This would have been the greater danger had not the sea been for some while free of obstacles. Mr. Riach, besides, announced from the top that he saw clear water ahead.
到了这个时候，我们时不时地转向一侧或另一侧以避开暗礁，但仍然拥抱着风和陆地，我们已经绕过了艾奥纳岛，开始与马尔并肩而行。陆地尾部的潮水非常猛烈，把双桅船掀翻了。两只手掌舵，霍萨森本人有时也会提供帮助。奇怪的是，三个强壮的人把他们的重量压在舵柄上，而舵柄（像一个活物）奋力抵抗并将他们赶了回来。如果海上没有障碍物一段时间，这将会是更大的危险。此外，里亚奇先生在山顶宣布他看到前面有清澈的水。

‘Ye were right,’ said Hoseason to Alan. ‘Ye have saved the brig, sir. I’ll mind that when we come to clear accounts.’ And I believe he not only meant what he said, but would have done it; so high a place did the Covenant hold in his affections.
“你是对的，”霍西森对艾伦说。 “您救了双桅船，长官。当我们清算账目时，我会介意这一点。”我相信他不仅是说到做到，而且会做到。圣约在他的感情中占有如此崇高的地位。

But this is matter only for conjecture, things having gone otherwise than he forecast.
但这只是猜测，事情的发展与他的预测不同。

‘Keep her away a point,’ sings out Mr. Riach. ‘Reef to windward!’
“让她远离一点，”里亚奇先生大声说道。 “礁石迎风！”

And just at the same time the tide caught the brig, and threw the wind out of her sails. She came round into the wind like a top, and the next moment struck the reef with such a dunch as threw us all flat upon the deck, and came near to shake Mr. Riach from his place upon the mast.
就在同一时间，潮水卷住了双桅船，使她的帆失去了风。她像陀螺一样迎风而转，下一刻，它猛烈地撞上礁石，把我们都摔倒在甲板上，还靠近把里亚奇先生从桅杆上的位置上摇了下来。

I was on my feet in a minute. The reef on which we had struck was close in under the southwest end of Mull, off a little isle they call Earraid, which lay low and black upon the larboard. Sometimes the swell broke clean over us; sometimes it only ground the poor brig upon the reef, so that we could hear her beat herself to pieces; and what with the great noise of the sails, and the singing of the wind, and the flying of the spray in the moonlight, and the sense of danger, I think my head must have been partly turned, for I could scarcely understand the things I saw.
我很快就站起来了。我们所撞到的礁石就在马尔岛西南端下方，离一座他们称之为“厄瑞德”的小岛不远，这座小岛位于左舷处，地势低矮，呈黑色。有时，海浪会淹没我们；有时，海浪会淹没我们。有时它只是把可怜的双桅船搁浅在礁石上，这样我们就能听到她把自己打成碎片。船帆的巨响，风的歌声，月光下飞溅的水花，以及危险的感觉，我想我的头一定已经部分转过头了，因为我几乎无法理解这些事情我看见。

Presently I observed Mr. Riach and the seamen busy round the skiff, and, still in the same blank, ran over to assist them; and as soon as I set my hand to work, my mind came clear again. It was no very easy task, for the skiff lay amidships and was full of hamper, and the breaking of the heavier seas continually forced us to give over and hold on; but we all wrought like horses while we could.
不久，我看到里亚奇先生和水手们在小艇周围忙碌，我仍然一脸茫然，跑过去帮助他们。当我开始工作时，我的头脑又恢复了清醒。这不是一件容易的事，因为小船停在船中部，装满了东西，而汹涌的海面不断地拍打着我们，迫使我们放弃并坚持下去。但我们都尽我们所能，像马一样努力。

Meanwhile such of the wounded as could move came clambering out of the fore-scuttle and began to help; while the rest that lay helpless in their bunks harrowed me with screaming and begging to be saved.
与此同时，一些能活动的伤员从前舷窗里爬出来，开始提供帮助。而其余的人无助地躺在床上，尖叫着乞求拯救，让我感到痛苦。

The captain took no part. It seemed he was struck stupid. He stood holding by the shrouds, talking to himself and groaning out aloud whenever the ship hammered on the rock. His brig was like wife and child to him; he had looked on, day by day, at the mishandling of poor Ransome; but when it came to the brig, he seemed to suffer along with her.
船长没有参加。看来他是被打傻了。他站在那儿，抓着裹尸布，自言自语，每当船撞击岩石时，他就会大声呻吟。他的双桅船对他来说就像妻子和孩子一样。他日复一日地看着可怜的兰塞姆受到不当对待。但到了双桅船，他似乎和她一起受苦。

All the time of our working at the boat, I remember only one other thing: that I asked Alan, looking across at the shore, what country it was; and he answered, it was the worst possible for him, for it was a land of the Campbells.
我们在船上工作的整个过程中，我只记得另一件事：我看着岸边问艾伦，那是哪个国家；他回答说，这对他来说是最糟糕的，因为这是坎贝尔家族的土地。

We had one of the wounded men told off to keep a watch upon the seas and cry us warning. Well, we had the boat about ready to be launched, when this man sang out pretty shrill: ‘For God’s sake, hold on!’ We knew by his tone that it was something more than ordinary; and sure enough, there followed a sea so huge that it lifted the brig right up and canted her over on her beam. Whether the cry came too late, or my hold was too weak, I know not; but at the sudden tilting of the ship I was cast clean over the bulwarks into the sea.
我们吩咐一名伤员监视海上并向我们发出警告。好吧，我们的船正准备下水，这时这个人大声喊道：“看在上帝的份上，坚持住！”从他的语气中我们知道这不寻常；他的声音非常刺耳。果然，接下来是一片巨大的大海，将双桅船直接升起并倾斜在横梁上。我不知道是哭声来得太晚了，还是我的抓地力太弱。但船突然倾斜，我被抛到了舷墙上方，掉进了海里。

I went down, and drank my fill, and then came up, and got a blink of the moon, and then down again. They say a man sinks a third time for good. I cannot be made like other folk, then; for I would not like to write how often I went down, or how often I came up again. All the while, I was being hurled along, and beaten upon and choked, and then swallowed whole; and the thing was so distracting to my wits, that I was neither sorry nor afraid.
我下去，喝饱了，然后上来，看了一眼月亮，然后又下去了。他们说，一个人第三次沉没就永远了。那么，我不能像其他人一样；因为我不想写我下楼的次数，或者我再次上来的次数。一直以来，我都被抛掷、殴打、窒息，然后整个被吞下去。这件事让我心烦意乱，所以我既不后悔也不害怕。

Presently, I found I was holding to a spar, which helped me somewhat. And then all of a sudden I was in quiet water, and began to come to myself.
现在，我发现我握着一根桅杆，这对我有所帮助。突然之间，我进入了安静的水中，并开始清醒过来。

It was the spare yard I had got hold of, and I was amazed to see how far I had travelled from the brig. I hailed her, indeed; but it was plain she was already out of cry. She was still holding together; but whether or not they had yet launched the boat, I was too far off and too low down to see.
这是我找到的备用院子，我惊讶地发现我已经从双桅船走了多远。我确实向她致意；但很明显她已经哭不出来了。她仍然团结在一起；但无论他们是否已经把船下水了，我距离太远、太低，看不到。

While I was hailing the brig, I spied a tract of water lying between us where no great waves came, but which yet boiled white all over and bristled in the moon with rings and bubbles. Sometimes the whole tract swung to one side, like the tail of a live serpent; sometimes, for a glimpse, it would all disappear and then boil up again. What it was I had no guess, which for the time increased my fear of it; but I now know it must have been the roost or tide race, which had carried me away so fast and tumbled me about so cruelly, and at last, as if tired of that play, had flung out me and the spare yard upon its landward margin.
当我向双桅船欢呼时，我发现我们之间有一片水域，没有大浪袭来，但它却全身沸腾着白色，在月亮的照射下布满了光环和气泡。有时，整个区域会向一侧摆动，就像活蛇的尾巴一样。有时，只是一瞥，一切就会消失，然后又沸腾起来。我不知道那是什么，这让我一时更加恐惧。但我现在知道，一定是栖息地或潮汐竞赛，它如此快速地将我带走，如此残酷地翻滚着，最后，好像厌倦了这种游戏，把我和备用院子扔到了陆地上。利润。

I now lay quite becalmed, and began to feel that a man can die of cold as well as of drowning. The shores of Earraid were close in; I could see in the moonlight the dots of heather and the sparkling of the mica in the rocks.
我现在躺着很平静，开始觉得一个人可能会死于寒冷，也可能会死于溺水。厄瑞德的海岸就在附近；我可以在月光下看到石南花的点点滴滴和岩石中闪闪发光的云母。

‘Well,’ thought I to myself, ‘if I cannot get as far as that, it’s strange!’
“好吧，”我心里想，“如果我不能做到这一点，那就奇怪了！”

I had no skill of swimming, Essen Water being small in our neighbourhood; but when I laid hold upon the yard with both arms, and kicked out with both feet, I soon begun to find that I was moving. Hard work it was, and mortally slow; but in about an hour of kicking and splashing, I had got well in between the points of a sandy bay surrounded by low hills.
我不会游泳，因为我们附近的埃森水厂很小。但当我用双臂抓住院子，用双脚踢出去时，我很快就开始发现自己在移动。这是一项艰苦的工作，而且速度极其缓慢；但经过大约一个小时的踢水和溅水，我已经顺利地到达了一个被低矮山丘包围的沙湾的两点之间。

The sea was here quite quiet; there was no sound of any surf; the moon shone clear; and I thought in my heart I had never seen a place so desert and desolate. But it was dry land; and when at last it grew so shallow that I could leave the yard and wade ashore upon my feet, I cannot tell if I was more tired or more grateful. Both, at least, I was: tired as I never was before that night; and grateful to God as I trust I have been often, though never with more cause.
这里的大海很平静。没有任何海浪声。月亮清亮；我心里想，我从来没有见过如此荒凉荒凉的地方。但那是干燥的土地；当水终于变得如此浅，我可以离开院子，涉水上岸时，我不知道自己是更累了，还是更感激了。至少，我感到：那天晚上我从来没有这么累过；我相信我经常对上帝心怀感激，尽管从来没有更有理由的。

CHAPTER XIV
第十四章


THE ISLET
小岛

With my stepping ashore I began the most unhappy part of my adventures. It was half-past twelve in the morning, and though the wind was broken by the land, it was a cold night. I dared not sit down (for I thought I should have frozen), but took off my shoes and walked to and fro upon the sand, bare-foot, and beating my breast with infinite weariness. There was no sound of man or cattle; not a cock crew, though it was about the hour of their first waking; only the surf broke outside in the distance, which put me in mind of my perils and those of my friend. To walk by the sea at that hour of the morning, and in a place so desert-like and lonesome, struck me with a kind of fear.
上岸后，我开始了我的冒险中最不愉快的部分。当时是凌晨十二点半，虽然风被陆地挡住了，但夜晚却很冷。我不敢坐下（因为我觉得我应该冻僵了），只是脱掉鞋子，光着脚在沙子上来回走动，无限疲倦地捶着胸口。没有人声或牛声。没有鸡鸣声，虽然那是他们第一次醒来的时候。只有远处海浪汹涌，这让我想起了我和我朋友的危险。清晨的那个时刻，在海边行走，在一个像沙漠一样孤独的地方，我感到一种恐惧。

As soon as the day began to break I put on my shoes and climbed a hill — the ruggedest scramble I ever undertook— falling, the whole way, between big blocks of granite, or leaping from one to another. When I got to the top the dawn was come. There was no sign of the brig, which must have lifted from the reef and sunk. The boat, too, was nowhere to be seen. There was never a sail upon the ocean; and in what I could see of the land was neither house nor man.
天一亮，我就穿上鞋子，爬上一座小山——这是我经历过的最崎岖的攀爬——一路上，在大块花岗岩之间跌倒，或者从一块花岗岩跳到另一块。当我到达山顶时，黎明已经来临。双桅船没有任何迹象，它一定是从礁石上升起并沉没的。那条船也不见踪影。海洋上从来没有帆；在我所见的土地上，既没有房子，也没有人。

I was afraid to think what had befallen my shipmates, and afraid to look longer at so empty a scene. What with my wet clothes and weariness, and my belly that now began to ache with hunger, I had enough to trouble me without that. So I set off eastward along the south coast, hoping to find a house where I might warm myself, and perhaps get news of those I had lost. And at the worst, I considered the sun would soon rise and dry my clothes.
我不敢去想我的船友们遭遇了什么，也不敢再看这么空旷的场景。我的衣服湿漉漉的，疲倦不堪，肚子又饿又疼，如果没有这些，我已经够麻烦的了。于是我沿着南海岸向东出发，希望能找到一所房子，可以取暖，也许还能得到我失去的人的消息。最坏的情况是，我以为太阳很快就会升起，晒干我的衣服。

After a little, my way was stopped by a creek or inlet of the sea, which seemed to run pretty deep into the land; and as I had no means to get across, I must needs change my direction to go about the end of it. It was still the roughest kind of walking; indeed the whole, not only of Earraid, but of the neighbouring part of Mull (which they call the Ross) is nothing but a jumble of granite rocks with heather in among. At first the creek kept narrowing as I had looked to see; but presently to my surprise it began to widen out again. At this I scratched my head, but had still no notion of the truth: until at last I came to a rising ground, and it burst upon me all in a moment that I was cast upon a little barren isle, and cut off on every side by the salt seas.
过了一会儿，我的路被一条小溪或海湾挡住了，它似乎已经深入陆地了。由于我没有办法过去，我必须改变方向才能结束它。这仍然是最艰难的步行方式。事实上，整个地区，不仅是厄尔瑞德，而且是马尔的邻近地区（他们称之为罗斯），只不过是一堆杂乱的花岗岩，中间夹杂着石南花。起初，正如我所看到的那样，小溪不断变窄。但不久之后，令我惊讶的是，它又开始变宽了。听到这里，我挠了挠头，但仍然不知道真相：直到最后我来到了一块高地，刹那间我突然意识到，我被抛到了一座荒芜的小岛上，切断了一切道路。盐海旁边。

Instead of the sun rising to dry me, it came on to rain, with a thick mist; so that my case was lamentable.
太阳没有升起来晒干我，而是下起了雨，带着浓浓的雾气。所以我的情况是可悲的。

I stood in the rain, and shivered, and wondered what to do, till it occurred to me that perhaps the creek was fordable. Back I went to the narrowest point and waded in. But not three yards from shore, I plumped in head over ears; and if ever I was heard of more, it was rather by God’s grace than my own prudence. I was no wetter (for that could hardly be), but I was all the colder for this mishap; and having lost another hope was the more unhappy.
我站在雨中，浑身发抖，不知道该怎么办，直到我突然想到也许这条小溪可以涉水而过。回来时，我走到最窄的地方，涉水而入。但距离海岸不到三码，我就一头扎进了耳朵里。如果有人听说过我更多的话，那也是上帝的恩典，而不是我自己的谨慎。我并没有更湿（因为这几乎不可能），但这次事故让我感觉更冷了。失去另一个希望就更不快乐了。

And now, all at once, the yard came in my head. What had carried me through the roost would surely serve me to cross this little quiet creek in safety. With that I set off, undaunted, across the top of the isle, to fetch and carry it back. It was a weary tramp in all ways, and if hope had not buoyed me up, I must have cast myself down and given up. Whether with the sea salt, or because I was growing fevered, I was distressed with thirst, and had to stop, as I went, and drink the peaty water out of the hags.
现在，突然间，院子出现在我的脑海里。那些带我走出栖息地的东西肯定会帮助我安全地穿过这条安静的小溪。说完，我毫不畏惧地出发，穿过岛顶，把它取回来。从各方面来看，这都是一次疲惫的徒步旅行，如果希望没有让我振奋起来，我一定会沮丧并放弃。不知是喝了海盐，还是因为发烧了，我口渴难耐，不得不停下来喝女巫们喝的泥炭水。

I came to the bay at last, more dead than alive; and at the first glance, I thought the yard was something farther out than when I left it. In I went, for the third time, into the sea. The sand was smooth and firm, and shelved gradually down, so that I could wade out till the water was almost to my neck and the little waves splashed into my face. But at that depth my feet began to leave me, and I durst venture in no farther. As for the yard, I saw it bobbing very quietly some twenty feet beyond.
我终于来到了海湾，已是生不如死。乍一看，我以为这个院子比我离开时更远了。我第三次走进大海。沙子又滑又硬，逐渐下沉，这样我就可以涉水而出，直到水几乎到了我的脖子，小浪花溅到我的脸上。但到了那个深度，我的脚开始离开我，我不敢再冒险了。至于院子，我看到它在二十英尺外静静地晃动。

I had borne up well until this last disappointment; but at that I came ashore, and flung myself down upon the sands and wept.
在这最后一次失望之前，我一直很好地忍受着。但就在那时，我上了岸，扑倒在沙滩上哭泣。

The time I spent upon the island is still so horrible a thought to me, that I must pass it lightly over. In all the books I have read of people cast away, they had either their pockets full of tools, or a chest of things would be thrown upon the beach along with them, as if on purpose. My case was very different. I had nothing in my pockets but money and Alan’s silver button; and being inland bred, I was as much short of knowledge as of means.
我在岛上度过的时光对我来说仍然是那么可怕，我必须轻轻地忽略它。在我读过的所有关于被遗弃的人的书中，他们要么口袋里装满工具，要么一箱东西和他们一起扔到海滩上，好像是故意的。我的情况非常不同。除了钱和艾伦的银纽扣，我口袋里什么也没有。由于我是在内陆长大的，我既缺乏知识，又缺乏财力。

I knew indeed that shell-fish were counted good to eat; and among the rocks of the isle I found a great plenty of limpets, which at first I could scarcely strike from their places, not knowing quickness to be needful. There were, besides, some of the little shells that we call buckies; I think periwinkle is the English name. Of these two I made my whole diet, devouring them cold and raw as I found them; and so hungry was I, that at first they seemed to me delicious.
我确实知道贝类是很好吃的。在岛上的岩石中，我发现了很多帽贝，起初我几乎无法将它们从它们的位置上击落，因为不知道需要快速。此外，还有一些我们称之为“buckies”的小贝壳。我认为 periwinkle 是英文名。我的全部饮食就是这两种食物，当我发现它们时，它们都是冷的和生的。我太饿了，一开始我觉得它们很美味。

Perhaps they were out of season, or perhaps there was something wrong in the sea about my island. But at least I had no sooner eaten my first meal than I was seized with giddiness and retching, and lay for a long time no better than dead. A second trial of the same food (indeed I had no other) did better with me, and revived my strength. But as long as I was on the island, I never knew what to expect when I had eaten; sometimes all was well, and sometimes I was thrown into a miserable sickness; nor could I ever distinguish what particular fish it was that hurt me.
也许它们已经过时了，或者也许我的岛屿周围的海水出了问题。但至少我刚吃完第一顿饭，就感到头晕、干呕，躺了很长一段时间，就跟死了一样。第二次尝试同样的食物（事实上我没有其他食物）对我来说效果更好，并且恢复了我的体力。但只要我还在岛上，我就永远不知道吃完饭后会发生什么；有时候一切都很好，有时候我却陷入了一场痛苦的疾病之中；我也分不清是什么鱼伤害了我。

All day it streamed rain; the island ran like a sop, there was no dry spot to be found; and when I lay down that night, between two boulders that made a kind of roof, my feet were in a bog.
一整天都下着倾盆大雨；岛上的水流像沼泽地一样，找不到干燥的地方。那天晚上，当我躺在两块像屋顶一样的巨石之间时，我的脚陷入了沼泽。

The second day I crossed the island to all sides. There was no one part of it better than another; it was all desolate and rocky; nothing living on it but game birds which I lacked the means to kill, and the gulls which haunted the outlying rocks in a prodigious number. But the creek, or strait, that cut off the isle from the main-land of the Ross, opened out on the north into a bay, and the bay again opened into the Sound of Iona; and it was the neighbourhood of this place that I chose to be my home; though if I had thought upon the very name of home in such a spot, I must have burst out weeping.
第二天，我穿越了岛屿的四面八方。没有哪一部分比另一部分更好。到处都是荒凉的岩石。上面除了我无法杀死的猎鸟和出没在外围岩石上的数量惊人的海鸥外，什么都没有。但是，将该岛与罗斯大陆隔开的小溪或海峡向北延伸，形成一个海湾，而海湾又再次通向爱奥那海峡。我选择了这个地方作为我的家。但如果我在这样的地方想到家的名字，我一定会哭起来。

I had good reasons for my choice. There was in this part of the isle a little hut of a house like a pig’s hut, where fishers used to sleep when they came there upon their business; but the turf roof of it had fallen entirely in; so that the hut was of no use to me, and gave me less shelter than my rocks. What was more important, the shell-fish on which I lived grew there in great plenty; when the tide was out I could gather a peck at a time: and this was doubtless a convenience. But the other reason went deeper. I had become in no way used to the horrid solitude of the isle, but still looked round me on all sides (like a man that was hunted), between fear and hope that I might see some human creature coming. Now, from a little up the hillside over the bay, I could catch a sight of the great, ancient church and the roofs of the people’s houses in Iona. And on the other hand, over the low country of the Ross, I saw smoke go up, morning and evening, as if from a homestead in a hollow of the land.
我的选择有充分的理由。岛上的这个地方有一座像猪舍一样的小小屋，渔民们来这里干活时就睡在那里。但它的草皮屋顶已经完全塌陷了。因此，小屋对我来说毫无用处，它给我的庇护还不如岩石。更重要的是，那里盛产我赖以生存的贝类。退潮时，我可以一次啄一点：这无疑是一种方便。但另一个原因更为深刻。我完全不习惯岛上可怕的孤独，但仍然环顾四周（就像一个被追捕的人），既害怕又希望看到一些人类生物过来。现在，从海湾上方的山坡上一点点，我可以看到爱奥那岛那座伟大而古老的教堂和人们房屋的屋顶。另一方面，在罗斯低地的上空，我看到烟雾从早到晚升起，仿佛是从洼地里的农庄冒出来的。

I used to watch this smoke, when I was wet and cold, and had my head half turned with loneliness; and think of the fireside and the company, till my heart burned. It was the same with the roofs of Iona. Altogether, this sight I had of men’s homes and comfortable lives, although it put a point on my own sufferings, yet it kept hope alive, and helped me to eat my raw shell-fish (which had soon grown to be a disgust), and saved me from the sense of horror I had whenever I was quite alone with dead rocks, and fowls, and the rain, and the cold sea.
我常常在湿冷的时候看着这烟雾，孤独地半转着头；想起炉边和同伴，直到我的心燃烧。爱奥那岛的屋顶也是如此。总而言之，我所看到的男人的家园和舒适的生活，虽然它强调了我自己的痛苦，但它仍然保持着希望，并帮助我吃生的贝类（很快就变得令人厌恶），当我独自一人面对死石、鸟儿、雨水和冰冷的大海时，它使我摆脱了恐惧感。

I say it kept hope alive; and indeed it seemed impossible that I should be left to die on the shores of my own country, and within view of a church-tower and the smoke of men’s houses. But the second day passed; and though as long as the light lasted I kept a bright look-out for boats on the Sound or men passing on the Ross, no help came near me. It still rained, and I turned in to sleep, as wet as ever, and with a cruel sore throat, but a little comforted, perhaps, by having said good-night to my next neighbours, the people of Iona.
我说它让希望永存；事实上，我似乎不可能被留在自己国家的海岸上，在教堂塔楼和人们房屋的烟雾中死去。但第二天过去了；尽管只要天亮，我就一直密切留意海峡上的船只或罗斯河上经过的人，但我附近却没有任何帮助。雨还在下，我睡着了，浑身湿漉漉的，喉咙痛得很厉害，但也许，因为向我的下一个邻居，爱奥那岛的人民说了晚安，我感到有点安慰。

Charles the Second declared a man could stay outdoors more days in the year in the climate of England than in any other. This was very like a king, with a palace at his back and changes of dry clothes. But he must have had better luck on his flight from Worcester than I had on that miserable isle. It was the height of the summer; yet it rained for more than twenty-four hours, and did not clear until the afternoon of the third day.
查理二世宣称，在英格兰的气候下，一个人一年中在户外呆的时间比在其他任何地方都多。这很像一个国王，身后有宫殿，还有换洗的干衣服。但他在从伍斯特起飞的途中一定比我在那个悲惨的岛上的运气好。当时正值盛夏。可是雨下了二十四个多小时，直到第三天下午才放晴。

This was the day of incidents. In the morning I saw a red deer, a buck with a fine spread of antlers, standing in the rain on the top of the island; but he had scarce seen me rise from under my rock, before he trotted off upon the other side. I supposed he must have swum the strait; though what should bring any creature to Earraid, was more than I could fancy.
这一天是事件发生的日子。早上，我看到一头马鹿，鹿角很细，站在岛顶的雨中；但他还没看到我从岩石下站起来，就小跑到了另一边。我猜想他一定是游过海峡了；尽管什么能让任何生物来到Earraid，却超出了我的想象。

A little after, as I was jumping about after my limpets, I was startled by a guinea-piece, which fell upon a rock in front of me and glanced off into the sea. When the sailors gave me my money again, they kept back not only about a third of the whole sum, but my father’s leather purse; so that from that day out, I carried my gold loose in a pocket with a button. I now saw there must be a hole, and clapped my hand to the place in a great hurry. But this was to lock the stable door after the steed was stolen. I had left the shore at Queensferry with near on fifty pounds; now I found no more than two guinea-pieces and a silver shilling.
过了一会儿，当我在追赶帽贝时，我被一枚几内亚币吓了一跳，它落在我面前的一块岩石上，瞥见大海。当水手们再次把钱还给我时，他们不仅扣留了大约三分之一的钱，还扣留了我父亲的皮包。所以从那天起，我就把金子放在一个有纽扣的口袋里。我现在发现那里一定有一个洞，我赶紧把手拍到那个地方。但这是为了在马被盗后锁上马厩门。我带着近五十英镑离开了昆斯费里海岸；现在我只找到了两块几内亚和一个银先令。

It is true I picked up a third guinea a little after, where it lay shining on a piece of turf. That made a fortune of three pounds and four shillings, English money, for a lad, the rightful heir of an estate, and now starving on an isle at the extreme end of the wild Highlands.
确实，不久之后我捡到了第三个几尼，它躺在一块草皮上闪闪发光。对于一个小伙子来说，这赚了三英镑四先令的财富，英国的钱，他是庄园的合法继承人，现在在荒野高地尽头的一座小岛上挨饿。

This state of my affairs dashed me still further; and, indeed my plight on that third morning was truly pitiful. My clothes were beginning to rot; my stockings in particular were quite worn through, so that my shanks went naked; my hands had grown quite soft with the continual soaking; my throat was very sore, my strength had much abated, and my heart so turned against the horrid stuff I was condemned to eat, that the very sight of it came near to sicken me.
我的处境让我更加沮丧。事实上，我第三天早上的处境确实很可怜。我的衣服开始腐烂；尤其是我的长筒袜已经磨破了，小腿都裸露在外了。由于不断的浸泡，我的手已经变得很软了。我的喉咙很痛，我的力气大大减弱，我的心如此厌恶我注定要吃的可怕的东西，以至于一看到它就让我感到恶心。

And yet the worst was not yet come.
然而最糟糕的情况还没有到来。

There is a pretty high rock on the northwest of Earraid, which (because it had a flat top and overlooked the Sound) I was much in the habit of frequenting; not that ever I stayed in one place, save when asleep, my misery giving me no rest. Indeed, I wore myself down with continual and aimless goings and comings in the rain.
厄尔瑞德西北部有一块相当高的岩石，（因为它的顶部平坦，可以俯瞰海峡）我很习惯经常光顾。除了睡觉的时候，我从来没有呆在一个地方，我的痛苦让我无法休息。确实，我在雨中漫无目的地走来走去，把自己累坏了。

As soon, however, as the sun came out, I lay down on the top of that rock to dry myself. The comfort of the sunshine is a thing I cannot tell. It set me thinking hopefully of my deliverance, of which I had begun to despair; and I scanned the sea and the Ross with a fresh interest. On the south of my rock, a part of the island jutted out and hid the open ocean, so that a boat could thus come quite near me upon that side, and I be none the wiser.
然而，太阳一出来，我就躺在岩石顶上擦干身体。阳光的舒适是我无法形容的。这让我满怀希望地想到我的获救，而我对此已经开始感到绝望了。我怀着新的兴趣扫视了大海和罗斯河。在我的岩石的南面，岛屿的一部分突出并隐藏了开阔的海洋，因此一艘船可以从那一侧非常靠近我，而我却一无所知。

Well, all of a sudden, a coble with a brown sail and a pair of fishers aboard of it, came flying round that corner of the isle, bound for Iona. I shouted out, and then fell on my knees on the rock and reached up my hands and prayed to them. They were near enough to hear — I could even see the colour of their hair; and there was no doubt but they observed me, for they cried out in the Gaelic tongue, and laughed. But the boat never turned aside, and flew on, right before my eyes, for Iona.
突然，一艘挂着棕色帆的粗缆船和船上的一对渔夫，飞过小岛的那个角落，驶向爱奥那岛。我大喊一声，然后跪在岩石上，伸出双手向他们祈祷。他们离得足够近，我可以听到——我什至可以看到他们头发的颜色；毫无疑问，他们在观察我，因为他们用盖尔语喊叫，然后大笑。但船并没有掉头，就在我眼前继续飞向爱奥那岛。

I could not believe such wickedness, and ran along the shore from rock to rock, crying on them piteously. even after they were out of reach of my voice, I still cried and waved to them; and when they were quite gone, I thought my heart would have burst. All the time of my troubles I wept only twice. Once, when I could not reach the yard, and now, the second time, when these fishers turned a deaf ear to my cries. But this time I wept and roared like a wicked child, tearing up the turf with my nails, and grinding my face in the earth. If a wish would kill men, those two fishers would never have seen morning, and I should likely have died upon my island.
我不敢相信这样的邪恶，沿着海岸从一块岩石跑到另一块岩石，对着它们可怜兮兮地哭泣。即使他们已经远离了我的声音，我仍然哭着向他们挥手。当他们完全消失后，我觉得我的心都要爆炸了。在我所有的烦恼中，我只哭过两次。一次，我无法到达院子；现在，第二次，这些渔民对我的呼喊置若罔闻。但这一次我像个恶孩子一样哭泣、咆哮，用指甲撕扯草皮，把脸埋在土里磨。如果一个愿望会杀人，那两个渔夫就永远不会看到早晨，而我很可能会死在我的岛上。

When I was a little over my anger, I must eat again, but with such loathing of the mess as I could now scarce control. Sure enough, I should have done as well to fast, for my fishes poisoned me again. I had all my first pains; my throat was so sore I could scarce swallow; I had a fit of strong shuddering, which clucked my teeth together; and there came on me that dreadful sense of illness, which we have no name for either in Scotch or English. I thought I should have died, and made my peace with God, forgiving all men, even my uncle and the fishers; and as soon as I had thus made up my mind to the worst, clearness came upon me; I observed the night was falling dry; my clothes were dried a good deal; truly, I was in a better case than ever before, since I had landed on the isle; and so I got to sleep at last, with a thought of gratitude.
当我的愤怒稍稍平息下来时，我必须再吃一顿，但我现在几乎无法控制自己对混乱的厌恶。果然，我也应该禁食，因为我的鱼又给我下了毒。我经历了所有最初的痛苦；我的喉咙痛得几乎无法吞咽。我一阵强烈的颤抖，牙齿咬得咯咯响。我突然感到一种可怕的疾病感，这种感觉在苏格兰语或英语中都没有名称。我想我应该死了，与上帝和解，宽恕所有人，甚至包括我的叔叔和渔夫们。当我下定决心做最坏的打算时，我的思路就清晰起来。我观察到夜色渐渐干燥；我的衣服都晒干了。确实，自从我登陆岛上以来，我的处境比以往任何时候都好。就这样，我终于带着感激之情入睡了。

The next day (which was the fourth of this horrible life of mine) I found my bodily strength run very low. But the sun shone, the air was sweet, and what I managed to eat of the shell-fish agreed well with me and revived my courage.
第二天（这是我可怕的生活的第四天）我发现我的体力非常低。但阳光明媚，空气清新，吃到的贝类很合我的胃口，又恢复了我的勇气。

I was scarce back on my rock (where I went always the first thing after I had eaten) before I observed a boat coming down the Sound, and with her head, as I thought, in my direction.
我刚回到岩石上（我总是在吃完饭后第一件事就去那里），然后我就看到一艘船顺着海峡驶来，正如我所想，她的头正朝着我的方向。

I began at once to hope and fear exceedingly; for I thought these men might have thought better of their cruelty and be coming back to my assistance. But another disappointment, such as yesterday’s, was more than I could bear. I turned my back, accordingly, upon the sea, and did not look again till I had counted many hundreds. The boat was still heading for the island. The next time I counted the full thousand, as slowly as I could, my heart beating so as to hurt me. And then it was out of all question. She was coming straight to Earraid!
我立刻既充满希望，又极度恐惧。因为我认为这些人可能已经反思了自己的残忍行为，并会回来帮助我。但另一次失望，就像昨天的那样，却超出了我的承受能力。于是，我转过身去，背对着大海，直到我数到有数百个为止，我才再看一眼。船仍在向岛上驶去。下一次，当我数完一千的时候，我尽可能慢地数着，我的心跳得让我感到疼痛。然后一切就毫无疑问了。她正直奔Earraid而来！

I could no longer hold myself back, but ran to the seaside and out, from one rock to another, as far as I could go. It is a marvel I was not drowned; for when I was brought to a stand at last, my legs shook under me, and my mouth was so dry, I must wet it with the sea-water before I was able to shout.
我再也按捺不住，跑到海边，跑到外面，从一块岩石跑到另一块岩石，能跑多远就跑多远。我没有被淹死真是奇迹；因为当我终于站起来时，我的双腿在我身下颤抖，我的嘴又干又干，我必须先用海水润湿它，然后才能喊叫。

All this time the boat was coming on; and now I was able to perceive it was the same boat and the same two men as yesterday. This I knew by their hair, which the one had of a bright yellow and the other black. But now there was a third man along with them, who looked to be of a better class.
一直以来，船都在前进。现在我能看出那是同昨天一样的船和同样的两个人。我从他们的头发就知道了这一点，一个是亮黄色，另一个是黑色。但现在和他们在一起的还有第三个人，他的阶级看起来更高一些。

As soon as they were come within easy speech, they let down their sail and lay quiet. In spite of my supplications, they drew no nearer in, and what frightened me most of all, the new man tee-hee’d with laughter as he talked and looked at me.
他们一到可以轻松讲话的地方，就放下帆，安静地躺着。尽管我苦苦哀求，他们却没有靠近，最让我害怕的是，新来的人一边说话一边看着我，哈哈大笑。

Then he stood up in the boat and addressed me a long while, speaking fast and with many wavings of his hand. I told him I had no Gaelic; and at this he became very angry, and I began to suspect he thought he was talking English. Listening very close, I caught the word ‘whateffer’ several times; but all the rest was Gaelic and might have been Greek and Hebrew for me.
然后他在船上站起来，对我说了很长时间，语速很快，并多次挥手。我告诉他我不会盖尔语；我不会。听到这里他非常生气，我开始怀疑他以为自己在说英语。我仔细听了好几次，才听到“whatever”这个词。但其余的都是盖尔语，对我来说可能是希腊语和希伯来语。

‘Whatever,’ said I, to show him I had caught a word.
“不管怎样，”我说，向他表明我已经听懂了一个词。

‘Yes, yes — yes, yes,’ says he, and then he looked at the other men, as much as to say, ‘I told you I spoke English,’ and began again as hard as ever in the Gaelic.
“是的，是的——是的，是的，”他说，然后他看着其他人，几乎是在说，“我告诉过你们我会说英语。”然后又像以前一样用盖尔语开始了。

This time I picked out another word, ‘tide.’ Then I had a flash of hope. I remembered he was always waving his hand towards the mainland of the Ross.
这次我又选了一个词，“潮汐”。然后我有了一线希望。我记得他一直在向罗斯大陆挥手。

‘Do you mean when the tide is out —?’ I cried, and could not finish.
“你是说退潮的时候——？”我喊道，但没能说完。

‘Yes, yes,’ said he. ‘Tide.’
“是的，是的，”他说。 '浪潮。'

At that I turned tail upon their boat (where my adviser had once more begun to tee-hee with laughter), leaped back the way I had come, from one stone to another, and set off running across the isle as I had never run before. In about half an hour I came out upon the shores of the creek; and, sure enough, it was shrunk into a little trickle of water, through which I dashed, not above my knees, and landed with a shout on the main island.
这时，我转向他们的船（我的顾问再次开始大笑），沿着我来时的路线跳回来，从一块石头跳到另一块石头，然后出发跑过小岛，这是我从未跑过的前。大约半小时后，我来到了小溪岸边。果然，它缩成了一小滴水，我冲过水流，没过膝盖，大喊一声落在主岛上。

A sea-bred boy would not have stayed a day on Earraid; which is only what they call a tidal islet, and except in the bottom of the neaps, can be entered and left twice in every twenty-four hours, either dry-shod, or at the most by wading. Even I, who had the tide going out and in before me in the bay, and even watched for the ebbs, the better to get my shellfish — even I (I say) if I had sat down to think, instead of raging at my fate, must have soon guessed the secret, and got free. It was no wonder the fishers had not understood me. The wonder was rather that they had ever guessed my pitiful illusion, and taken the trouble to come back. I had starved with cold and hunger on that island for close upon one hundred hours. But for the fishers, I might have left my bones there, in pure folly. And even as it was, I had paid for it pretty dear, not only in past sufferings, but in my present case; being clothed like a beggar-man, scarce able to walk, and in great pain of my sore throat.
一个海生男孩不会在厄尔瑞德停留一天。这只是他们所说的潮汐岛，除了在小潮的底部之外，每二十四小时可以进出两次，要么穿干鞋，要么最多涉水。即使是我，在海湾里，潮水在我面前退潮，甚至观察着退潮，更好地获得我的贝类——即使是我（我说），如果我坐下来思考，而不是对我的愤怒发怒的话。命运，一定很快就猜到了这个秘密，并获得了自由。难怪渔民们不理解我的意思。奇怪的是，他们竟然猜到了我可怜的幻觉，还不辞辛劳地回来了。我在那个岛上已经挨饿了近一百个小时。如果不是对渔民来说，我可能会把我的骨头留在那里，这纯粹是愚蠢的。即便如此，我也为此付出了高昂的代价，不仅是在过去的痛苦中，而且在我现在的情况下；我穿着像乞丐一样的衣服，几乎无法行走，而且喉咙痛得很厉害。

I have seen wicked men and fools, a great many of both; and I believe they both get paid in the end; but the fools first.
我见过恶人和愚人，两者都有很多；我相信他们最终都会得到报酬；但愚人先行。

CHAPTER XV
第十五章


THE LAD WITH THE SILVER BUTTON: THROUGH THE ISLE OF MULL
带银扣的小伙子：穿过马尔岛

The Ross of Mull, which I had now got upon, was rugged and trackless, like the isle I had just left; being all bog, and brier, and big stone. There may be roads for them that know that country well; but for my part I had no better guide than my own nose, and no other landmark than Ben More.
我现在登上的马尔罗斯号，崎岖不平，无人踪迹，就像我刚刚离开的那座小岛一样。到处都是沼泽、荆棘和大石头。熟悉那个国家的人可能有路；但就我而言，我没有比自己的鼻子更好的向导，也没有比本·莫尔更好的地标。

I aimed as well as I could for the smoke I had seen so often from the island; and with all my great weariness and the difficulty of the way came upon the house in the bottom of a little hollow about five or six at night. It was low and longish, roofed with turf and built of unmortared stones; and on a mound in front of it, an old gentleman sat smoking his pipe in the sun.
我竭尽全力瞄准我经常在岛上看到的烟雾。晚上五六点左右，我带着极大的疲倦和路途的艰难，来到了一个小洼地底部的房子。它又低又长，屋顶是草皮，是用未抹灰的石头建造的。在它前面的一个土堆上，一位老绅士坐在阳光下抽烟斗。

With what little English he had, he gave me to understand that my shipmates had got safe ashore, and had broken bread in that very house on the day after.
他用他仅有的一点英语告诉我，我的船友们已经安全上岸，并于第二天在那所房子里吃了面包。

‘Was there one,’ I asked, ‘dressed like a gentleman?’
“有一个人，”我问，“穿得像个绅士吗？”

He said they all wore rough great-coats; but to be sure, the first of them, the one that came alone, wore breeches and stockings, while the rest had sailors’ trousers.
他说他们都穿着粗糙的大衣；但可以肯定的是，他们中第一个，单独来的，穿着马裤和长袜，而其他人则穿着水手裤。

‘Ah,’ said I, ‘and he would have a feathered hat?’
“啊，”我说，“他会戴一顶羽毛帽子吗？”

He told me, no, that he was bareheaded like myself.
他告诉我，不，他和我一样没戴帽子。

At first I thought Alan might have lost his hat; and then the rain came in my mind, and I judged it more likely he had it out of harm’s way under his great-coat. This set me smiling, partly because my friend was safe, partly to think of his vanity in dress.
起初我以为艾伦可能丢了帽子；然后我的脑海里出现了雨，我判断他更有可能在大衣下面躲过雨。这让我笑了，部分是因为我的朋友安全了，部分是因为他在着装上的虚荣心。

And then the old gentleman clapped his hand to his brow, and cried out that I must be the lad with the silver button.
然后，老先生用手拍着额头，大声喊道，我就是那个戴着银纽扣的小伙子。

‘Why, yes!’ said I, in some wonder.
“为什么，是的！”我有些奇怪地说道。

‘Well, then,’ said the old gentleman, ‘I have a word for you, that you are to follow your friend to his country, by Torosay.’
“那么，”老先生说，“我有话要告诉你，你要跟随你的朋友到他的国家，托罗赛。”

He then asked me how I had fared, and I told him my tale. A south-country man would certainly have laughed; but this old gentleman (I call him so because of his manners, for his clothes were dropping off his back) heard me all through with nothing but gravity and pity. When I had done, he took me by the hand, led me into his hut (it was no better) and presented me before his wife, as if she had been the Queen and I a duke.
然后他问我过得怎么样，我告诉他我的故事。一个南方人肯定会笑；但这位老先生（我这样称呼他是因为他的举止，因为他的衣服从他背上掉了下来）除了严肃和怜悯之外什么也没有听我说。当我完成后，他拉着我的手，把我带进他的小屋（也好不到哪儿去），把我带到他的妻子面前，仿佛她是女王，而我是公爵。

The good woman set oat-bread before me and a cold grouse, patting my shoulder and smiling to me all the time, for she had no English; and the old gentleman (not to be behind) brewed me a strong punch out of their country spirit. All the while I was eating, and after that when I was drinking the punch, I could scarce come to believe in my good fortune; and the house, though it was thick with the peat-smoke and as full of holes as a colander, seemed like a palace.
这位好心的女人把燕麦面包和一只冷松鸡放在我面前，拍着我的肩膀，一直对我微笑，因为她不会英语；老先生（不在后面）用他们的乡村精神给我泡了一壶烈酒。在我吃东西的时候，以及之后喝潘趣酒的时候，我几乎不敢相信自己的好运。这座房子虽然充满了泥炭烟，而且像滤锅一样千疮百孔，但看起来就像一座宫殿。

The punch threw me in a strong sweat and a deep slumber; the good people let me lie; and it was near noon of the next day before I took the road, my throat already easier and my spirits quite restored by good fare and good news. The old gentleman, although I pressed him hard, would take no money, and gave me an old bonnet for my head; though I am free to own I was no sooner out of view of the house than I very jealously washed this gift of his in a wayside fountain.
这一拳让我出了一身大汗，然后陷入了沉睡。好人让我撒谎；第二天临近中午，我才上路，我的喉咙已经舒服了，好消息和好消息也让我的精神恢复了。老先生尽管我极力逼迫，他也不肯要钱，还给了我一顶旧帽子，戴在我的头上。尽管我可以自由地拥有，但我一走出房子的视野，就非常嫉妒地在路边的喷泉里清洗了他的这份礼物。

Thought I to myself: ‘If these are the wild Highlanders, I could wish my own folk wilder.’
我心想：“如果这些是野生高地人，我希望我自己的同胞也能更狂野。”

I not only started late, but I must have wandered nearly half the time. True, I met plenty of people, grubbing in little miserable fields that would not keep a cat, or herding little kine about the bigness of asses. The Highland dress being forbidden by law since the rebellion, and the people condemned to the Lowland habit, which they much disliked, it was strange to see the variety of their array. Some went bare, only for a hanging cloak or great-coat, and carried their trousers on their backs like a useless burthen: some had made an imitation of the tartan with little parti-coloured stripes patched together like an old wife’s quilt; others, again, still wore the Highland philabeg, but by putting a few stitches between the legs transformed it into a pair of trousers like a Dutchman’s. All those makeshifts were condemned and punished, for the law was harshly applied, in hopes to break up the clan spirit; but in that out-of-the-way, sea-bound isle, there were few to make remarks and fewer to tell tales.
我不仅起步晚，而且肯定有近一半的时间都在闲逛。确实，我遇到过很多人，他们在狭小、可怜的田地里耕种，那里养不了猫，或者在大驴子周围放牧小牛。自叛乱以来，高地服装就被法律禁止，人们谴责低地服装，他们非常不喜欢这种习惯，看到他们的多样性很奇怪。有些人赤身裸体，只是为了一件挂斗篷或大衣，把裤子像无用的负担一样背在背上：有些人模仿了格子呢，用小杂色条纹拼凑在一起，就像老妻子的被子一样；有些人则穿着格子呢。其他人仍然穿着高地披肩，但在两腿之间缝了几针，就把它变成了一条像荷兰人那样的裤子。所有这些权宜之计都受到谴责和惩罚，因为法律适用严厉，希望瓦解宗族精神；但在那个偏僻的海边小岛上，很少有人发表言论，也很少有人讲故事。

They seemed in great poverty; which was no doubt natural, now that rapine was put down, and the chiefs kept no longer an open house; and the roads (even such a wandering, country by—track as the one I followed) were infested with beggars. And here again I marked a difference from my own part of the country. For our Lowland beggars — even the gownsmen themselves, who beg by patent — had a louting, flattering way with them, and if you gave them a plaek and asked change, would very civilly return you a boddle. But these Highland beggars stood on their dignity, asked alms only to buy snuff (by their account) and would give no change.
他们看起来非常贫穷。这无疑是很自然的事，既然掠夺已经被镇压了，酋长们也不再开放参观了。路上（即使是像我所走的那条蜿蜒的乡村小路）也挤满了乞丐。我在这里再次指出了与我所在国家的不同之处。因为我们低地的乞丐——甚至是那些专门乞讨的礼服师自己——对他们都有一种谩骂、奉承的态度，如果你给他们一块钱并要求零钱，他们会非常有礼貌地还给你一个酒桶。但这些高地乞丐坚持自己的尊严，只求施舍买鼻烟（用他们的账户），并且不会给任何零钱。

To be sure, this was no concern of mine, except in so far as it entertained me by the way. What was much more to the purpose, few had any English, and these few (unless they were of the brotherhood of beggars) not very anxious to place it at my service. I knew Torosay to be my destination, and repeated the name to them and pointed; but instead of simply pointing in reply, they would give me a screed of the Gaelic that set me foolish; so it was small wonder if I went out of my road as often as I stayed in it.
可以肯定的是，这与我无关，除非它顺便让我感到高兴。更重要的是，很少有人懂英语，而这些人（除非他们是乞丐兄弟）并不急于为我服务。我知道托罗赛是我的目的地，于是向他们重复了这个名字，并指出了他们的方向。但他们不会简单地指着我回答，而是给我一段盖尔语的长篇大论，这让我觉得很愚蠢。因此，我走出道路的频率和留在道路上的频率一样也就不足为奇了。

At last, about eight at night, and already very weary, I came to a lone house, where I asked admittance, and was refused, until I bethought me of the power of money in so poor a country, and held up one of my guineas in my finger and thumb. Thereupon, the man of the house, who had hitherto pretended to have no English, and driven me from his door by signals, suddenly began to speak as clearly as was needful, and agreed for five shillings to give me a night’s lodging and guide me the next day to Torosay.
最后，大约晚上八点，我已经非常疲惫了，来到一所孤零零的房子里，我请求进入，但被拒绝了，直到我想到金钱在如此贫穷的国家的力量，并举起了我的一个我的手指和拇指里有几尼。这时，一直假装不懂英语，用信号把我赶出家门的男主人突然开始尽可能清晰地说话，并同意支付五先令给我一晚的住宿和指导。第二天前往托罗赛。

I slept uneasily that night, fearing I should be robbed; but I might have spared myself the pain; for my host was no robber, only miserably poor and a great cheat. He was not alone in his poverty; for the next morning, we must go five miles about to the house of what he called a rich man to have one of my guineas changed. This was perhaps a rich man for Mull; he would have scarce been thought so in the south; for it took all he had — the whole house was turned upside down, and a neighbour brought under contribution, before he could scrape together twenty shillings in silver. The odd shilling he kept for himself, protesting he could ill afford to have so great a sum of money lying ‘locked up.’ For all that he was very courteous and well spoken, made us both sit down with his family to dinner, and brewed punch in a fine china bowl, over which my rascal guide grew so merry that he refused to start.
那天晚上我睡得很不安稳，生怕自己被抢劫了。但我本可以免除自己的痛苦；因为我的主人并不是强盗，只是穷得可怜，而且是个大骗子。他并不是唯一一个陷入贫困的人。第二天早上，我们必须绕行五英里，到一个他所谓的富人的家里去换我的一个几尼。对于马尔来说，这也许是个有钱人。在南方，人们几乎不会这么认为他。因为这耗尽了他所有的一切——整个房子被翻了个底朝天，在他凑到二十先令银子之前，邻居就捐款了。他为自己保留了零星的先令，抗议他无力承担将如此大笔钱“锁起来”的费用。尽管如此，他还是很有礼貌，谈吐得体，让我们俩和他的家人一起坐下来吃晚饭，然后在一个精美的瓷碗里酿造潘趣酒，我那无赖的导游高兴极了，以至于拒绝开始。

I was for getting angry, and appealed to the rich man (Hector Maclean was his name), who had been a witness to our bargain and to my payment of the five shillings. But Maclean had taken his share of the punch, and vowed that no gentleman should leave his table after the bowl was brewed; so there was nothing for it but to sit and hear Jacobite toasts and Gaelic songs, till all were tipsy and staggered off to the bed or the barn for their night’s rest.
我生气了，向那位富翁（赫克托·麦克林是他的名字）求助，他是我们讨价还价和我支付五先令的见证人。但麦克林已经承担了他的那份重担，并发誓任何绅士都不会在这碗泡好后离开他的餐桌。因此，除了坐下来听雅各布派的祝酒词和盖尔语歌曲外，别无他法，直到所有人都喝醉了，摇摇晃晃地走到床上或谷仓去休息。

Next day (the fourth of my travels) we were up before five upon the clock; but my rascal guide got to the bottle at once, and it was three hours before I had him clear of the house, and then (as you shall hear) only for a worse disappointment.
第二天（我旅行的第四天），我们五点钟就起床了。但我的无赖向导立刻就找到了瓶子，三个小时后我才把他从房子里赶出来，然后（正如你将听到的）只是为了更加失望。

As long as we went down a heathery valley that lay before Mr. Maclean’s house, all went well; only my guide looked constantly over his shoulder, and when I asked him the cause, only grinned at me. No sooner, however, had we crossed the back of a hill, and got out of sight of the house windows, than he told me Torosay lay right in front, and that a hill-top (which he pointed out) was my best landmark.
只要我们沿着麦克莱恩先生家前面的一片石南花山谷走下去，一切就都很顺利。只有我的向导不断地回头看，当我问他原因时，他只是对我微笑。然而，我们一穿过山后，走出房子窗户的视线，他就告诉我托罗赛就在前面，山顶（他指出）是我最好的地标。

‘I care very little for that,’ said I, ‘since you are going with me.’
“我对此不太关心，”我说，“因为你要和我一起去。”

The impudent cheat answered me in the Gaelic that he had no English.
这个无礼的骗子用盖尔语回答我说他不会英语。

‘My fine fellow,’ I said, ‘I know very well your English comes and goes. Tell me what will bring it back? Is it more money you wish?’
“我的好朋友，”我说，“我很清楚你的英语来来去去。告诉我什么能把它带回来？你想要更多的钱吗？

‘Five shillings mair,’ said he, ‘and hersel’ will bring ye there.’
“五先令，”他说，“她自己就能带你们去那儿。”

I reflected awhile and then offered him two, which he accepted greedily, and insisted on having in his hands at once ‘for luck,’ as he said, but I think it was rather for my misfortune.
我想了一会儿，然后给了他两块，他贪婪地接受了，并坚持立即拿在手里，正如他所说，“为了运气”，但我认为这更像是为了我的不幸。

The two shillings carried him not quite as many miles; at the end of which distance, he sat down upon the wayside and took off his brogues from his feet, like a man about to rest.
两先令并没有带他走多少英里。走到尽头，他在路边坐下，脱下脚上的布洛克鞋，就像一个准备休息的人一样。

I was now red-hot. ‘Ha!’ said I, ‘have you no more English?’
我现在已经红了。 “哈！”我说，“你不会说英语了吗？”

He said impudently, ‘No.’
他无礼地说：“不。”

At that I boiled over, and lifted my hand to strike him; and he, drawing a knife from his rags, squatted back and grinned at me like a wildcat. At that, forgetting everything but my anger, I ran in upon him, put aside his knife with my left, and struck him in the mouth with the right. I was a strong lad and very angry, and he but a little man; and he went down before me heavily. By good luck, his knife flew out of his hand as he fell.
我当时就怒火中烧，举手要打他。他从破烂的衣服里抽出一把刀，向后蹲着，像野猫一样对我咧嘴一笑。这时，除了愤怒之外，我忘记了一切，冲向他，用左手把他的刀放在一边，用右手打在他的嘴上。我是个坚强的小伙子，非常生气，而他只是个小个子；他重重地倒在我面前。幸运的是，他跌倒时刀从他手里飞了出去。

I picked up both that and his brogues, wished him a good morning, and set off upon my way, leaving him barefoot and disarmed. I chuckled to myself as I went, being sure I was done with that rogue, for a variety of reasons. First, he knew he could have no more of my money; next, the brogues were worth in that country only a few pence; and, lastly, the knife, which was really a dagger, it was against the law for him to carry.
我拿起那双鞋和他的布洛克鞋，祝他早上好，然后就上路了，留下他光着脚，没有武装。我一边走一边暗自窃笑，因为种种原因，我确信我已经和那个流氓完了。首先，他知道他不能再拥有我的钱了；其次，布洛克鞋在那个国家只值几便士。最后，那把刀，实际上是一把匕首，他携带是违法的。

In about half an hour of walk, I overtook a great, ragged man, moving pretty fast but feeling before him with a staff. He was quite blind, and told me he was a catechist, which should have put me at my ease. But his face went against me; it seemed dark and dangerous and secret; and presently, as we began to go on alongside, I saw the steel butt of a pistol sticking from under the flap of his coat-pocket. To carry such a thing meant a fine of fifteen pounds sterling upon a first offence, and transportation to the colonies upon a second. Nor could I quite see why a religious teacher should go armed, or what a blind man could be doing with a pistol.
走了大约半小时，我追上了一个身材魁梧、衣衫褴褛的男人，他走得很快，但感觉他前面拿着一根棍子。他很盲目，并告诉我他是一名传教员，这应该让我放心。但他的脸却对着我；它看起来黑暗、危险、秘密；不久，当我们开始并肩前行时，我看到手枪的钢枪托从他的外套口袋里伸出来。携带这样的东西意味着第一次违规将被处以十五英镑的罚款，第二次则被运送到殖民地。我也不太明白为什么宗教老师应该携带武器，或者盲人可以用手枪做什么。

I told him about my guide, for I was proud of what I had done, and my vanity for once got the heels of my prudence. At the mention of the five shillings he cried out so loud that I made up my mind I should say nothing of the other two, and was glad he could not see my blushes.
我告诉他我的向导的事，因为我为自己所做的事感到自豪，我的虚荣心终于战胜了我的谨慎。一提到那五先令，他就哭得那么大声，我决定不再提另外两先令，很高兴他看不到我的脸红。

‘Was it too much?’ I asked, a little faltering.
“是不是太多了？”我有些支吾地问道。

‘Too much!’ cries he. ‘Why, I will guide you to Torosay myself for a dram of brandy. And give you the great pleasure of my company (me that is a man of some learning) in the bargain.’
“太多了！”他喊道。 “嗯，我会亲自带你去托罗赛喝一杯白兰地。并让你在讨价还价中得到我的陪伴（我是一个有学问的人）的巨大乐趣。

I said I did not see how a blind man could be a guide; but at that he laughed aloud, and said his stick was eyes enough for an eagle.
我说我不明白一个盲人怎么能当向导；但听到这，他放声大笑，说他的棍子足以成为老鹰的眼睛。

‘In the Isle of Mull, at least,’ says he, ‘where I know every stone and heather-bush by mark of head. See, now,’ he said, striking right and left, as if to make sure, ‘down there a burn is running; and at the head of it there stands a bit of a small hill with a stone cocked upon the top of that; and it’s hard at the foot of the hill, that the way runs by to Torosay; and the way here, being for droves, is plainly trodden, and will show grassy through the heather.’
“至少在马尔岛，”他说，“我知道那里的每一块石头和石南花丛都有头部的标记。看，现在，”他说着，左右敲打着，好像要确定，“下面有烧伤；在它的顶端有一座小山，山顶上耸立着一块石头。山脚下通往托罗赛的路很艰难；这里的路是成群结队的，显然是有人踩过的，石南花丛中会露出青草。

I had to own he was right in every feature, and told my wonder.
我必须承认他在每一个方面都是正确的，并说出了我的疑问。

‘Ha!’ says he, ‘that’s nothing. Would ye believe me now, that before the Act came out, and when there were weepons in this country, I could shoot? Ay, could I!’ cries he, and then with a leer: ‘If ye had such a thing as a pistol here to try with, I would show ye how it’s done.’
“哈！”他说，“那没什么。”现在你们相信我吗，在该法案出台之前，当这个国家有武器时，我可以开枪？哎呀，我可以吗！”他喊道，然后斜视道：“如果你们这里有一把手枪这样的东西可以尝试，我会告诉你们这是怎么做的。”

I told him I had nothing of the sort, and gave him a wider berth. If he had known, his pistol stuck at that time quite plainly out of his pocket, and I could see the sun twinkle on the steel of the butt. But by the better luck for me, he knew nothing, thought all was covered, and lied on in the dark.
我告诉他我没有这样的东西，并对他敬而远之。如果他知道的话，他的手枪当时就很明显地从口袋里伸出来了，我可以看到阳光在枪托的钢上闪烁。但幸运的是，他什么都不知道，以为一切都被掩盖了，然后躺在黑暗中。

He then began to question me cunningly, where I came from, whether I was rich, whether I could change a five-shilling piece for him (which he declared he had that moment in his sporran), and all the time he kept edging up to me and I avoiding him. We were now upon a sort of green cattle-track which crossed the hills towards Torosay, and we kept changing sides upon that like ancers in a reel. I had so plainly the upper-hand that my spirits rose, and indeed I took a pleasure in this game of blindman’s buff; but the catechist grew angrier and angrier, and at last began to swear in Gaelic and to strike for my legs with his staff.
然后他开始狡猾地问我，我从哪里来，我是否富有，我是否可以为他换一张五先令的硬币（他声称他在他的斯皮兰中有过这样的时刻），而他一直在不断地进步。对我来说，我避开他。我们现在正走在一条绿色的牛道上，它穿过山丘向托罗赛方向前进，我们不断地在这条路上换边，就像卷轴上的棋子一样。我明显占了上风，我的精神振奋起来，而且我确实很喜欢这种盲人游戏。但传教员越来越生气，最后开始用盖尔语咒骂，并用他的手杖敲打我的腿。

Then I told him that, sure enough, I had a pistol in my pocket as well as he, and if he did not strike across the hill due south I would even blow his brains out.
然后我告诉他，果然我和他口袋里都有手枪，如果他不越过正南的山丘，我什至会打爆他的脑袋。

He became at once very polite, and after trying to soften me for some time, but quite in vain, he cursed me once more in Gaelic and took himself off. I watched him striding along, through bog and brier, tapping with his stick, until he turned the end of a hill and disappeared in the next hollow. Then I struck on again for Torosay, much better pleased to be alone than to travel with that man of learning. This was an unlucky day; and these two, of whom I had just rid myself, one after the other, were the two worst men I met with in the Highlands.
他立刻变得非常有礼貌，在试图软化我一段时间后，但完全徒劳，他再次用盖尔语咒骂了我，然后就走了。我看着他大步走着，穿过沼泽和荆棘，用棍子敲打着，直到拐过一座山的尽头，消失在下一个洼地里。然后我又出发去托罗赛，比起和那个有学问的人一起旅行，我更高兴独自一人。这是不幸的一天；我刚刚一一摆脱了他们，他们是我在高地遇到的最糟糕的两个人。

At Torosay, on the Sound of Mull and looking over to the mainland of Morven, there was an inn with an innkeeper, who was a Maclean, it appeared, of a very high family; for to keep an inn is thought even more genteel in the Highlands than it is with us, perhaps as partaking of hospitality, or perhaps because the trade is idle and drunken. He spoke good English, and finding me to be something of a scholar, tried me first in French, where he easily beat me, and then in the Latin, in which I don’t know which of us did best. This pleasant rivalry put us at once upon friendly terms; and I sat up and drank punch with him (or to be more correct, sat up and watched him drink it), until he was so tipsy that he wept upon my shoulder.
在马尔湾的托罗赛，俯瞰莫文大陆，有一家旅馆，旅馆老板是麦克莱恩家族的一个很高的家庭。因为在高地开一家旅馆被认为比在我们这里更上流，也许是为了热情好客，也许是因为生意闲散而醉醺醺的。他英语说得很好，发现我有点像学者，就先用法语考验了我，他轻松地击败了我，然后又用拉丁语试了试，我不知道我们谁做得最好。这种愉快的竞争使我们立刻建立了友好的关系。我坐起来和他一起喝潘趣酒（或者更正确地说，坐起来看着他喝），直到他醉得靠在我肩上哭泣。

I tried him, as if by accident, with a sight of Alan’s button; but it was plain he had never seen or heard of it. Indeed, he bore some grudge against the family and friends of Ardshiel, and before he was drunk he read me a lampoon, in very good Latin, but with a very ill meaning, which he had made in elegiac verses upon a person of that house.
我仿佛偶然地尝试了他，看到了艾伦的纽扣。但很明显他从未见过或听说过它。事实上，他对阿德谢尔的家人和朋友怀有一些怨恨，在他喝醉之前，他给我读了一首讽刺诗，用非常好的拉丁语，但带有非常恶毒的意思，这是他在挽歌诗中对那个房子里的一个人写的。 。

When I told him of my catechist, he shook his head, and said I was lucky to have got clear off. ‘That is a very dangerous man,’ he said; ‘Duncan Mackiegh is his name; he can shoot by the ear at several yards, and has been often accused of highway robberies, and once of murder.’
当我告诉他我的传教员的事时，他摇了摇头，说我很幸运能够离开。 “那是一个非常危险的人，”他说。 “他的名字是邓肯·麦基；他可以在几码外对着耳朵开枪，经常被指控犯有公路抢劫罪，还曾被指控犯有谋杀罪。

‘The cream of it is,’ says I, ‘that he called himself a catechist.’
“最重要的是，”我说，“他称自己为传教员。”

‘And why should he not?’ says he, ‘when that is what he is. It was Maclean of Duart gave it to him because he was blind. But perhaps it was a peety,’ says my host, ‘for he is always on the road, going from one place to another to hear the young folk say their religion; and, doubtless, that is a great temptation to the poor man.’
“他为什么不应该呢？”他说，“他就是这样的人。”这是杜阿尔特的麦克林给他的，因为他是盲人。但也许这是一件小事，”我的主人说，“因为他总是在路上，从一个地方到另一个地方，听年轻人讲述他们的宗教信仰；毫无疑问，这对穷人来说是一个巨大的诱惑。

At last, when my landlord could drink no more, he showed me to a bed, and I lay down in very good spirits; having travelled the greater part of that big and crooked Island of Mull, from Earraid to Torosay, fifty miles as the crow flies, and (with my wanderings) much nearer a hundred, in four days and with little fatigue. Indeed I was by far in better heart and health of body at the end of that long tramp than I had been at the beginning.
最后，当我的房东不能再喝酒时，他带我到一张床上，我精神抖擞地躺了下来。我花了四天的时间，从厄尔瑞德到托罗赛，走完了那座又大又弯曲的马尔岛的大部分地区，直线飞行五十英里，（随着我的漫游）已经接近一百英里了，而且几乎没有疲劳。事实上，在那次长途跋涉结束时，我的心脏和身体健康状况比开始时要好得多。

CHAPTER XVI
第十六章


THE LAD WITH THE SILVER BUTTON: ACROSS MORVEN
带银扣的小伙子：穿过莫文

There is a regular ferry from Torosay to Kinlochaline on the mainland. Both shores of the Sound are in the country of the strong clan of the Macleans, and the people that passed the ferry with me were almost all of that clan. The skipper of the boat, on the other hand, was called Neil Roy Macrob; and since Macrob was one of the names of Alan’s clansmen, and Alan himself had sent me to that ferry, I was eager to come to private speech of Neil Roy.
有定期渡轮从托罗赛 (Torosay) 前往大陆的金洛查林 (Kinlochaline)。海峡两岸都是麦克林家族的强国，和我一起过渡口的人几乎都是麦克林家族的人。另一方面，这艘船的船长名叫尼尔·罗伊·马克罗布 (Neil Roy Macrob)。由于马克罗布是艾伦族人的名字之一，而且艾伦亲自送我去那个渡口，所以我很想听尼尔·罗伊的私人演讲。

In the crowded boat this was of course impossible, and the passage was a very slow affair. There was no wind, and as the boat was wretchedly equipped, we could pull but two oars on one side, and one on the other. The men gave way, however, with a good will, the passengers taking spells to help them, and the whole company giving the time in Gaelic boat-songs. And what with the songs, and the sea-air, and the good-nature and spirit of all concerned, and the bright weather, the passage was a pretty thing to have seen.
在拥挤的船上，这当然是不可能的，而且航行非常缓慢。没有风，而且船的装备简陋，我们只能在一侧拉两支桨，另一侧拉一根桨。然而，这些人善意地让路了，乘客们用咒语来帮助他们，整个公司都在用盖尔语船歌打发时间。伴随着歌声、大海的空气、所有相关人员的善良和精神，以及晴朗的天气，这段旅程是一件非常值得一看的事情。

But there was one melancholy part. In the mouth of Loch Aline we found a great sea-going ship at anchor; and this I supposed at first to be one of the King’s cruisers which were kept along that coast, both summer and winter, to prevent communication with the French. As we got a little nearer, it became plain she was a ship of merchandise; and what still more puzzled me, not only her decks, but the sea-beach also, were quite black with people, and skiffs were continually plying to and fro between them. Yet nearer, and there began to come to our ears a great sound of mourning, the people on board and those on the shore crying and lamenting one to another so as to pierce the heart.
但也有一个令人忧郁的部分。在艾琳湖的河口，我们发现一艘巨大的海船停泊在那里。我一开始以为这是国王的一艘巡洋舰，无论夏季还是冬季，它都停泊在该海岸，以防止与法国人沟通。当我们靠近一点时，才发现她是一艘满载货物的船。更令我困惑的是，不仅是她的甲板，连海滩上都挤满了人，小船不断地在他们之间来来往往。更近了，耳边开始传来一阵巨大的哀声，船上的人和岸上的人互相哭号、哀号，撕心裂肺。

Then I understood this was an emigrant ship bound for the American colonies.
然后我明白这是一艘开往美国殖民地的移民船。

We put the ferry-boat alongside, and the exiles leaned over the bulwarks, weeping and reaching out their hands to my fellow-passengers, among whom they counted some near friends. How long this might have gone on I do not know, for they seemed to have no sense of time: but at last the captain of the ship, who seemed near beside himself (and no great wonder) in the midst of this crying and confusion, came to the side and begged us to depart.
我们把渡船停在旁边，流放者们靠在舷墙上哭泣，向我的同伴伸出双手，其中包括一些亲密的朋友。我不知道这会持续多久，因为他们似乎没有时间观念：但最后，船长在这哭声和混乱中似乎几乎发疯了（这并不奇怪） ，来到一旁哀求我们离开。

Thereupon Neil sheered off; and the chief singer in our boat struck into a melancholy air, which was presently taken up both by the emigrants and their friends upon the beach, so that it sounded from all sides like a lament for the dying. I saw the tears run down the cheeks of the men and women in the boat, even as they bent at the oars; and the circumstances and the music of the song (which is one called ‘Lochaber no more’) were highly affecting even to myself.
于是尼尔就避开了。我们船上的主唱唱起了忧郁的曲调，不久之后，海滩上的移民和他们的朋友们也跟着唱起了这种曲子，四面八方听起来就像是在为垂死的人哀悼。我看到船上男男女女在弯腰划桨时，泪水从脸颊上流下来。这首歌的环境和音乐（这首歌叫做“Lochaber no more”）甚至对我自己也产生了很大的影响。

At Kinlochaline I got Neil Roy upon one side on the beach, and said I made sure he was one of Appin’s men.
在金洛查林，我在海滩的一侧找到了尼尔·罗伊，并说我确保他是阿平的手下之一。

‘And what for no?’ said he.
“那又如何呢？”他说。

‘I am seeking somebody,’ said I; ‘and it comes in my mind that you will have news of him. Alan Breck Stewart is his name.’ And very foolishly, instead of showing him the button, I sought to pass a shilling in his hand.
我说：“我正在找人。” “我想到你会得到他的消息。”他的名字叫艾伦·布雷克·斯图尔特。”非常愚蠢的是，我没有给他看按钮，而是试图把一先令递到他手里。

At this he drew back. ‘I am very much affronted,’ he said; ‘and this is not the way that one shentleman should behave to another at all. The man you ask for is in France; but if he was in my sporran,’ says he, ‘and your belly full of shillings, I would not hurt a hair upon his body.’
说到这里，他退缩了。 “我感到非常受到侮辱，”他说； “这根本不是一个恶棍对待另一个恶棍的方式。”你要找的人在法国；但如果他在我的斯皮兰里，”他说，“而你的肚子里装满了先令，我就不会伤害他身上的一根头发。”

I saw I had gone the wrong way to work, and without wasting time upon apologies, showed him the button lying in the hollow of my palm.
我发现自己走错了上班路，没有浪费时间道歉，而是向他展示了我手掌心上的按钮。

‘Aweel, aweel,’ said Neil; ‘and I think ye might have begun with that end of the stick, whatever! But if ye are the lad with the silver button, all is well, and I have the word to see that ye come safe. But if ye will pardon me to speak plainly,’ says he, ‘there is a name that you should never take into your mouth, and that is the name of Alan Breck; and there is a thing that ye would never do, and that is to offer your dirty money to a Hieland shentleman.’
“哎呀，哎呀，”尼尔说。 “我想你们可能已经从棍子的那一端开始了，无论如何！但如果你是那个戴着银纽扣的小伙子，那就一切都好，我有话要确保你安全。但请原谅我直言不讳，”他说，“有一个名字你永远不应该放在嘴里，那就是艾伦·布雷克（Alan Breck）的名字；有件事是你们永远不会做的，那就是把你们的脏钱交给希兰的骗子。”

It was not very easy to apologise; for I could scarce tell him (what was the truth) that I had never dreamed he would set up to be a gentleman until he told me so. Neil on his part had no wish to prolong his dealings with me, only to fulfil his orders and be done with it; and he made haste to give me my route. This was to lie the night in Kinlochaline in the public inn; to cross Morven the next day to Ardgour, and lie the night in the house of one John of the Claymore, who was warned that I might come; the third day, to be set across one loch at Corran and another at Balachulish, and then ask my way to the house of James of the Glens, at Aucharn in Duror of Appin. There was a good deal of ferrying, as you hear; the sea in all this part running deep into the mountains and winding about their roots. It makes the country strong to hold and difficult to travel, but full of prodigious wild and dreadful prospects.
道歉并不容易。因为我几乎无法告诉他（真相是什么），在他告诉我之前，我从未梦想过他会成为一名绅士。尼尔方面并不想延长与我的交往，只想完成他的命令并完成它。他赶紧告诉我我的路线。晚上，我们将在金洛查林的公共旅馆里过夜。第二天穿过莫文前往阿德古尔，在一位克莱莫人约翰的家里过夜，他被警告说我可能会来；第三天，我要穿过科兰的一个湖，又到巴拉胡利什的另一个湖，然后问我去阿平杜罗尔奥尚的峡谷詹姆斯家的路。正如你所听到的，有很多轮渡。这一部分的海水深入山中，蜿蜒缠绕在山根上。它使这个国家坚固而难以旅行，但却充满了巨大的荒野和可怕的前景。

I had some other advice from Neil: to speak with no one by the way, to avoid Whigs, Campbells, and the ‘red-soldiers;’ to leave the road and lie in a bush if I saw any of the latter coming, ‘for it was never chancy to meet in with them;’ and in brief, to conduct myself like a robber or a Jacobite agent, as perhaps Neil thought me.
尼尔还向我提出了其他建议：顺便说一句，不要与任何人交谈，避开辉格党、坎贝尔党和“红兵”；如果我看到后者来了，就离开道路并躺在灌木丛中，“因为与他们见面从来都不是偶然的；简而言之，我的行为就像强盗或雅各布派特工，也许尼尔认为我是这样。

The inn at Kinlochaline was the most beggarly vile place that ever pigs were styed in, full of smoke, vermin, and silent Highlanders. I was not only discontented with my lodging, but with myself for my mismanagement of Neil, and thought I could hardly be worse off. But very wrongly, as I was soon to see; for I had not been half an hour at the inn (standing in the door most of the time, to ease my eyes from the peat smoke) when a thunderstorm came close by, the springs broke in a little hill on which the inn stood, and one end of the house became a running water. Places of public entertainment were bad enough all over Scotland in those days; yet it was a wonder to myself, when I had to go from the fireside to the bed in which I slept, wading over the shoes.
金洛查林的旅馆是猪圈中最肮脏、最肮脏的地方，充满了烟雾、害虫和沉默的高地人。我不仅对自己的住宿条件不满意，而且对自己对尼尔的管理不善也不满意，我想我的情况再糟糕不过了。但我很快就发现这是非常错误的；因为我在客栈呆了不到半个小时（大部分时间都站在门口，为了让我的眼睛从泥煤烟雾中解脱出来），一场雷雨临近，客栈所在的一座小山上的泉水破裂了，房子的一端变成了自来水。那时苏格兰各地的公共娱乐场所已经够糟糕的了。然而，当我不得不从火边走到我睡觉的床上，涉水走过鞋子时，这对我自己来说是一个奇迹。

Early in my next day’s journey I overtook a little, stout, solemn man, walking very slowly with his toes turned out, sometimes reading in a book and sometimes marking the place with his finger, and dressed decently and plainly in something of a clerical style.
第二天一早，我就追上了一个矮小、粗壮、庄重的男人，他走路很慢，脚趾外翻，时而看书，时而用手指做记号，穿着得体、朴素，有点像牧师的风格。 。

This I found to be another catechist, but of a different order from the blind man of Mull: being indeed one of those sent out by the Edinburgh Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge, to evangelise the more savage places of the Highlands. His name was Henderland; he spoke with the broad south-country tongue, which I was beginning to weary for the sound of; and besides common countryship, we soon found we had a more particular bond of interest. For my good friend, the minister of Essendean, had translated into the Gaelic in his by-time a number of hymns and pious books which Henderland used in his work, and held in great esteem. Indeed, it was one of these he was carrying and reading when we met.
我发现这是另一位传教员，但与马尔盲人的顺序不同：他确实是爱丁堡传播基督教知识协会派出的人之一，到高地更野蛮的地方传播福音。他的名字叫亨德兰；他用宽广的南方语言说话，我已经开始厌倦这种声音了。除了共同的祖国之外，我们很快发现我们还有更特殊的利益纽带。因为我的好朋友，埃森丁的牧师，当时将一些赞美诗和虔诚的书籍翻译成盖尔语，亨德兰在他的工作中使用了这些内容，并受到极大的尊重。事实上，当我们见面时，他正拿着并正在阅读其中一本。

We fell in company at once, our ways lying together as far as to Kingairloch. As we went, he stopped and spoke with all the wayfarers and workers that we met or passed; and though of course I could not tell what they discoursed about, yet I judged Mr. Henderland must be well liked in the countryside, for I observed many of them to bring out their mulls and share a pinch of snuff with him.
我们立刻结伴而行，一直走到金盖尔洛赫。当我们走的时候，他停下来与我们遇到或经过的所有旅行者和工人交谈。虽然我当然听不清他们在谈论什么，但我判断亨德兰先生在乡下一定很受欢迎，因为我观察到他们中的许多人都在表达自己的想法，并与他分享一小撮鼻烟。

I told him as far in my affairs as I judged wise; as far, that is, as they were none of Alan’s; and gave Balachulish as the place I was travelling to, to meet a friend; for I thought Aucharn, or even Duror, would be too particular, and might put him on the scent.
我把我认为明智的事情告诉了他。就目前而言，也就是说，它们不是艾伦的；并把巴拉胡利什列为我要去见朋友的地方；因为我认为奥尚，甚至杜罗，都太挑剔了，可能会让他闻到气味。

On his part, he told me much of his work and the people he worked among, the hiding priests and Jacobites, the Disarming Act, the dress, and many other curiosities of the time and place. He seemed moderate; blaming Parliament in several points, and especially because they had framed the Act more severely against those who wore the dress than against those who carried weapons.
就他而言，他向我讲述了他的很多工作和他工作的人，隐藏的牧师和雅各布派，解除武装法案，服装，以及当时和地点的许多其他好奇心。他看上去很温和。在几个方面指责议会，特别是因为他们对该法案的制定更加严厉地针对穿着裙子的人，而不是携带武器的人。

This moderation put it in my mind to question him of the Red Fox and the Appin tenants; questions which, I thought, would seem natural enough in the mouth of one travelling to that country.
这种温和的态度让我想到要向他询问红狐和阿平佃户的情况。我想，这些问题对于去那个国家旅行的人来说是很自然的。

He said it was a bad business. ‘It’s wonderful,’ said he, ‘where the tenants find the money, for their life is mere starvation. (Ye don’t carry such a thing as snuff, do ye, Mr. Balfour? No. Well, I’m better wanting it.) But these tenants (as I was saying) are doubtless partly driven to it. James Stewart in Duror (that’s him they call James of the Glens) is half-brother to Ardshiel, the captain of the clan; and he is a man much looked up to, and drives very hard. And then there’s one they call Alan Breck—‘
他说这是一笔糟糕的生意。 “这真是太棒了，”他说，“佃户们能找到钱，因为他们的生活只是挨饿而已。” （你们不带鼻烟这样的东西，是吗，贝尔福先生？不。好吧，我最好想要它。）但这些房客（正如我所说）无疑是部分被迫这样做的。杜罗尔的詹姆斯·斯图尔特（人们称他为峡谷的詹姆斯）是部落队长阿德希尔的同父异母兄弟；他是一个备受尊敬的人，并且开车非常努力。还有一个他们叫艾伦·布雷克——”

‘Ah!’ I cried, ‘what of him?’
“啊！”我喊道，“他呢？”

‘What of the wind that bloweth where it listeth?’ said Henderland. ‘He’s here and awa; here to-day and gone to-morrow: a fair heather-cat. He might be glowering at the two of us out of yon whin-bush, and I wouldnae wonder! Ye’ll no carry such a thing as snuff, will ye?’
“风随心所欲地吹，又如何呢？”亨德兰问道。 “他就在这里，随时待命；”今天在这里，明天就离开：一只美丽的石南花猫。他可能正在灌木丛中怒视着我们两个，我不知道！你们不会带鼻烟之类的东西吧？

I told him no, and that he had asked the same thing more than once.
我告诉他不，而且他不止一次问过同样的事情。

‘It’s highly possible,’ said he, sighing. ‘But it seems strange ye shouldnae carry it. However, as I was saying, this Alan Breck is a bold, desperate customer, and well kent to be James’s right hand. His life is forfeit already; he would boggle at naething; and maybe, if a tenant-body was to hang back he would get a dirk in his wame.’
“这很有可能，”他叹了口气说。 “但是你们竟然带着它，这似乎很奇怪。然而，正如我所说，这个艾伦·布雷克是一个大胆、绝望的顾客，很适合成为詹姆斯的得力助手。他的生命已经丧失；他会对任何事情都感到困惑；也许，如果一个佃农犹豫不决，他的腰上就会挨一把短刀。”

‘You make a poor story of it all, Mr. Henderland,’ said I. ‘If it is all fear upon both sides, I care to hear no more of it.’
“亨德兰先生，你把这一切都编成了一个糟糕的故事，”我说，“如果双方都感到恐惧，我不想再听下去了。”

‘Na,’ said Mr. Henderland, ‘but there’s love too, and self-denial that should put the like of you and me to shame. There’s something fine about it; no perhaps Christian, but humanly fine. Even Alan Breck, by all that I hear, is a chield to be respected. There’s many a lying sneck-draw sits close in kirk in our own part of the country, and stands well in the world’s eye, and maybe is a far worse man, Mr. Balfour, than yon misguided shedder of man’s blood. Ay, ay, we might take a lesson by them. — Ye’ll perhaps think I’ve been too long in the Hielands?’ he added, smiling to me.
“不，”亨德兰先生说，“但也有爱，还有克己，这应该让你我这样的人感到羞愧。”这有一些好处；也许不是基督徒，但人性化很好。据我所知，即使是艾伦·布雷克（Alan Breck）也是一个值得尊重的孩子。在我们这个国家的地区，有许多撒谎的骗子就在柯克附近，在世人的眼中赫赫有名，贝尔福先生，也许他们比那些被误导的流血者还要糟糕得多。唉，唉，我们可以向他们吸取教训。 ——你们也许会认为我在希尔兰待得太久了？”他微笑着对我补充道。

I told him not at all; that I had seen much to admire among the Highlanders; and if he came to that, Mr. Campbell himself was a Highlander.
我根本没有告诉他；我在高地人中看到了很多值得钦佩的地方；如果坎贝尔先生真的这么认为的话，那么他本人就是高地人。

‘Ay,’ said he, ‘that’s true. It’s a fine blood.’
“嗯，”他说，“确实如此。这是一种优良的血液。

‘And what is the King’s agent about?’ I asked.
“国王的代理人是做什么的？”我问道。

‘Colin Campbell?’ says Henderland. ‘Putting his head in a bees’ byke!’
“科林·坎贝尔？”亨德兰说。 “把他的头放进蜜蜂的自行车里！”

‘He is to turn the tenants out by force, I hear?’ said I.
“我听说他要用武力把房客赶走？”我说。

‘Yes,’ says he, ‘but the business has gone back and forth, as folk say. First, James of the Glens rode to Edinburgh, and got some lawyer (a Stewart, nae doubt — they all hing together like bats in a steeple) and had the proceedings stayed. And then Colin Campbell cam’ in again, and had the upper-hand before the Barons of Exchequer. And now they tell me the first of the tenants are to flit to-morrow. It’s to begin at Duror under James’s very windows, which doesnae seem wise by my humble way of it.’
“是的，”他说，“但正如人们所说，生意一直在反复。”首先，格伦斯的詹姆斯骑马前往爱丁堡，请了一些律师（毫无疑问，是斯图尔特律师——他们都像尖塔上的蝙蝠一样团结在一起）并搁置了诉讼程序。然后科林·坎贝尔再次登场，在财政大臣面前占据了上风。现在他们告诉我第一个房客明天就要搬走。就从詹姆斯窗户下的杜罗尔开始，以我卑微的方式来看，这似乎并不明智。

‘Do you think they’ll fight?’ I asked.
“你认为他们会打架吗？”我问。

‘Well,’ says Henderland, ‘they’re disarmed — or supposed to be — for there’s still a good deal of cold iron lying by in quiet places. And then Colin Campbell has the sogers coming. But for all that, if I was his lady wife, I wouldnae be well pleased till I got him home again. They’re queer customers, the Appin Stewarts.’
“好吧，”亨德兰说，“他们已经解除了武装——或者说应该解除了武装——因为在安静的地方仍然有大量冰冷的铁器。然后科林坎贝尔让索格来了。但尽管如此，如果我是他的妻子，我会很高兴直到我把他带回家。他们是酷儿顾客，阿平斯图尔特一家。

I asked if they were worse than their neighbours.
我问他们是否比邻居更糟糕。

‘No they,’ said he. ‘And that’s the worst part of it. For if Colin Roy can get his business done in Appin, he has it all to begin again in the next country, which they call Mamore, and which is one of the countries of the Camerons. He’s King’s Factor upon both, and from both he has to drive out the tenants; and indeed, Mr. Balfour (to be open with ye), it’s my belief that if he escapes the one lot, he’ll get his death by the other.’
“不，他们，”他说。 ‘这是最糟糕的部分。因为如果科林·罗伊能够在阿平完成他的生意，他就可以在下一个国家重新开始一切，他们称之为马莫尔，这是卡梅伦家族的国家之一。他是这两个地方的国王因素，他必须驱逐这两个地方的佃户。事实上，贝尔福先生（对你们来说），我相信，如果他逃脱了这一批，他就会死于另一批。

So we continued talking and walking the great part of the, day; until at last, Mr. Henderland after expressing his delight in my company, and satisfaction at meeting with a friend of Mr. Campbell’s (“whom,’ says he, ‘I will make bold to call that sweet singer of our covenanted Zion’), proposed that I should make a short stage, and lie the night in his house a little beyond Kingairloch. To say truth, I was overjoyed; for I had no great desire for John of the Claymore, and since my double misadventure, first with the guide and next with the gentleman skipper, I stood in some fear of any Highland stranger. Accordingly we shook hands upon the bargain, and came in the afternoon to a small house, standing alone by the shore of the Linnhe Loch. The sun was already gone from the desert mountains of Ardgour upon the hither side, but shone on those of Appin on the farther; the loch lay as still as a lake, only the gulls were crying round the sides of it; and the whole place seemed solemn and uncouth.
于是，这一天的大部分时间我们都在继续聊天、散步。直到最后，亨德兰先生表达了他对我的陪伴的高兴，以及对与坎贝尔先生的一位朋友会面的满意（“他说，”我将大胆地称呼我们盟约锡安的那位可爱的歌手”） ，提议我应该做一个短舞台，晚上在他位于金盖尔洛赫稍远处的房子里过夜。说实话，我很高兴；因为我对克莱莫号的约翰并没有多大的兴趣，而且自从我经历了两次不幸之后，第一次是与向导，第二次是与绅士船长，我对任何高地陌生人都有些恐惧。于是我们握手言和，下午来到了林尼湖岸边一座孤零零的小房子前。太阳已经从这边的阿德古尔沙漠山脉消失了，但还照耀着远处的阿平山脉。湖水像湖一样平静，只有海鸥在湖边鸣叫。整个地方显得庄严而粗俗。

We had no sooner come to the door of Mr. Henderland’s dwelling, than to my great surprise (for I was now used to the politeness of Highlanders) he burst rudely past me, dashed into the room, caught up a jar and a small horn-spoon, and began ladling snuff into his nose in most excessive quantities. Then he had a hearty fit of sneezing, and looked round upon me with a rather silly smile.
我们刚走到亨德兰先生的住处门口，令我大吃一惊的是（因为我现在已经习惯了高地人的礼貌），他粗鲁地从我身边冲过去，冲进房间，抓起一个罐子和一个小喇叭。勺子，开始往鼻子里舀过量的鼻烟。然后他猛烈地打了一个喷嚏，然后带着一种相当愚蠢的微笑环视着我。

‘It’s a vow I took,’ says he. ‘I took a vow upon me that I wouldnae carry it. Doubtless it’s a great privation; but when I think upon the martyrs, not only to the Scottish Covenant but to other points of Christianity, I think shame to mind it.’
“这是我发下的誓言，”他说。 “我发誓我不会携带它。毫无疑问，这是一种极大的匮乏。但当我想到这些殉道者时，不仅是苏格兰盟约的殉道者，而且是基督教其他观点的殉道者，我觉得在意这些是可耻的。

As soon as we had eaten (and porridge and whey was the best of the good man’s diet) he took a grave face and said he had a duty to perform by Mr. Campbell, and that was to inquire into my state of mind towards God. I was inclined to smile at him since the business of the snuff; but he had not spoken long before he brought the tears into my eyes. There are two things that men should never weary of, goodness and humility; we get none too much of them in this rough world among cold, proud people; but Mr. Henderland had their very speech upon his tongue. And though I was a good deal puffed up with my adventures and with having come off, as the saying is, with flying colours; yet he soon had me on my knees beside a simple, poor old man, and both proud and glad to be there.
我们一吃完饭（粥和乳清是好人的最佳饮食），他就板着脸说坎贝尔先生有一个职责要履行，那就是探询我对上帝的态度。自从鼻烟的事情发生以来，我就倾向于对他微笑。但他话没说多久，我的泪水就流进了眼眶。人有两件事是永远不应该厌倦的：善良和谦卑；在这个残酷的世界里，我们在冷漠、骄傲的人们中间得到了太多这样的东西。但亨德兰先生却把他们的讲话挂在嘴边。尽管我对自己的冒险经历感到非常得意，而且正如俗话说的那样，取得了辉煌的成就；但他很快就让我跪在一位朴实、贫穷的老人身边，我为能在那里感到自豪和高兴。

Before we went to bed he offered me sixpence to help me on my way, out of a scanty store he kept in the turf wall of his house; at which excess of goodness I knew not what to do. But at last he was so earnest with me that I thought it the more mannerly part to let him have his way, and so left him poorer than myself.
在我们上床睡觉之前，他从他在房子的草皮墙里保留的少量商店里拿出了六便士，以帮助我上路。对此，我不知道该怎么办。但最后他对我如此认真，我认为让他随心所欲是更有礼貌的做法，所以让他比我更穷。

CHAPTER XVII
第十七章


THE DEATH OF THE RED FOX
红狐之死

The next day Mr. Henderland found for me a man who had a boat of his own and was to cross the Linnhe Loch that afternoon into Appin, fishing. Him he prevailed on to take me, for he was one of his flock; and in this way I saved a long day’s travel and the price of the two public ferries I must otherwise have passed.
第二天，亨德兰先生为我找到了一个人，他有一条自己的船，将于当天下午穿过林尼湖进入阿平钓鱼。他说服他带我来，因为他是他羊群中的一员。这样我就省去了一整天的旅行，也节省了我本来必须经过的两趟公共渡轮的费用。

It was near noon before we set out; a dark day with clouds, and the sun shining upon little patches. The sea was here very deep and still, and had scarce a wave upon it; so that I must put the water to my lips before I could believe it to be truly salt. The mountains on either side were high, rough and barren, very black and gloomy in the shadow of the clouds, but all silver-laced with little watercourses where the sun shone upon them. It seemed a hard country, this of Appin, for people to care as much about as Alan did.
我们出发时已经接近中午了。阴暗的一天，乌云密布，阳光照耀着小片斑点。这里的大海很深很平静，几乎没有波浪。所以我必须把水放到嘴边才能相信它是真正的盐。两边的山都很高，崎岖不平，光秃秃的，在云层的阴影下显得非常阴暗，但在阳光的照耀下，一切都银装素裹，有条条小河道。对于像艾伦一样关心的人来说，阿平的这个国家似乎是一个艰难的国家。

There was but one thing to mention. A little after we had started, the sun shone upon a little moving clump of scarlet close in along the water-side to the north. It was much of the same red as soldiers’ coats; every now and then, too, there came little sparks and lightnings, as though the sun had struck upon bright steel.
只有一件事要提。我们出发后不久，阳光照在北边靠近水边的一小块移动的猩红色上。它的颜色与士兵外套的红色很相似。时不时地还会有小火花和闪电出现，就好像太阳照在明亮的钢铁上一样。

I asked my boatman what it should be, and he answered he supposed it was some of the red soldiers coming from Fort William into Appin, against the poor tenantry of the country. Well, it was a sad sight to me; and whether it was because of my thoughts of Alan, or from something prophetic in my bosom, although this was but the second time I had seen King George’s troops, I had no good will to them.
我问我的船夫那应该是什么，他回答说他认为那是一些红色士兵从威廉堡来到阿平，对抗该国贫穷的佃农。嗯，这对我来说是一个悲伤的景象。不管是因为我对艾伦的思念，还是出于我心中的某种预感，虽然这只是我第二次见到乔治国王的军队，但我对他们并没有什么好感。

At last we came so near the point of land at the entering in of Loch Leven that I begged to be set on shore. My boatman (who was an honest fellow and mindful of his promise to the catechist) would fain have carried me on to Balachulish; but as this was to take me farther from my secret destination, I insisted, and was set on shore at last under the wood of Lettermore (or Lettervore, for I have heard it both ways) in Alan’s country of Appin.
最后，我们已经非常接近利文湖入口处的陆地了，我恳求让我们上岸。我的船夫（他是一个诚实的人，并牢记他对传教员的承诺）很乐意带我去巴拉胡利什；但我的船夫很乐意带我去巴拉胡利什。但我坚持这样做是为了让我远离我的秘密目的地，并最终在艾伦的国家阿平的莱特莫尔（或莱特沃尔，因为我听过这两种说法）的树林下上岸。

This was a wood of birches, growing on a steep, craggy side of a mountain that overhung the loch. It had many openings and ferny howes; and a road or bridle track ran north and south through the midst of it, by the edge of which, where was a spring, I sat down to eat some oat-bread of Mr. Henderland’s and think upon my situation.
这是一片桦树林，生长在悬于湖上的一座山陡峭崎岖的一侧。它有很多开口和蕨类植物。一条路或马道从北向南贯穿其中，路边有泉水，我坐下来吃亨德兰先生做的燕麦面包，思考我的处境。

Here I was not only troubled by a cloud of stinging midges, but far more by the doubts of my mind. What I ought to do, why I was going to join myself with an outlaw and a would-be murderer like Alan, whether I should not be acting more like a man of sense to tramp back to the south country direct, by my own guidance and at my own charges, and what Mr. Campbell or even Mr. Henderland would think of me if they should ever learn my folly and presumption: these were the doubts that now began to come in on me stronger than ever.
在这里，我不仅被一大群蠓虫困扰，更多的是我内心的疑惑。我应该做什么，为什么我要和艾伦这样的亡命之徒和潜在的杀人犯一起，我是否应该表现得更像一个理智的人，在我自己的引导下直接回到南方国家以及我自己的指控，如果坎贝尔先生甚至亨德兰先生知道我的愚蠢和自以为是，他们会怎么看我：这些是现在开始比以往任何时候都更强烈的疑虑。

As I was so sitting and thinking, a sound of men and horses came to me through the wood; and presently after, at a turning of the road, I saw four travellers come into view. The way was in this part so rough and narrow that they came single and led their horses by the reins. The first was a great, red-headed gentleman, of an imperious and flushed face, who carried his hat in his hand and fanned himself, for he was in a breathing heat. The second, by his decent black garb and white wig, I correctly took to be a lawyer. The third was a servant, and wore some part of his clothes in tartan, which showed that his master was of a Highland family, and either an outlaw or else in singular good odour with the Government, since the wearing of tartan was against the Act. If I had been better versed in these things, I would have known the tartan to be of the Argyle (or Campbell) colours. This servant had a good-sized portmanteau strapped on his horse, and a net of lemons (to brew punch with) hanging at the saddle-bow; as was often enough the custom with luxurious travellers in that part of the country.
正当我坐​​着思考时，树林里传来人马的声音。不久之后，在路的拐角处，我看到四个旅客出现在我的视野中。这一段路又崎岖又狭窄，他们只身一人，用缰绳牵着马匹。第一个是一位身材高大的红发绅士，他的脸色涨得通红，专横跋扈，手里拿着帽子，扇着扇子，因为他正呼吸着热气。第二个，从他得体的黑色服装和白色假发来看，我正确地认为他是一名律师。第三个是一名仆人，他的衣服有一部分是格子呢，这表明他的主人出身于高地家庭，要么是亡命之徒，要么是政府的好味道，因为穿格子呢是违反该法案的。 。如果我更精通这些事情，我就会知道格子呢是阿盖尔（或坎贝尔）颜色的。这个仆人的马背上绑着一个大号的旅行包，马鞍弓上挂着一网柠檬（用来酿造潘趣酒）。这在该国那个地区已经是奢侈旅行者的惯例了。

As for the fourth, who brought up the tail, I had seen his like before, and knew him at once to be a sheriff’s officer.
至于第四个，就是那条尾巴，我以前见过他的样子，立刻就知道他是一名治安官。

I had no sooner seen these people coming than I made up my mind (for no reason that I can tell) to go through with my adventure; and when the first came alongside of me, I rose up from the bracken and asked him the way to Aucharn.
我一看到这些人来了，就下定决心（不知道为什么）继续我的冒险。当第一个来到我身边时，我从蕨丛中站起来，问他去奥尚的路。

He stopped and looked at me, as I thought, a little oddly; and then, turning to the lawyer, ‘Mungo,’ said he, ‘there’s many a man would think this more of a warning than two pyats. Here am I on my road to Duror on the job ye ken; and here is a young lad starts up out of the bracken, and speers if I am on the way to Aucharn.’
他停下来看着我，我觉得他的眼神有点奇怪。然后，他转向律师，“蒙戈，”他说，“很多人会认为这更像是一个警告，而不是两个皮亚。”我现在正踏上去杜罗尔的路上，从事工作，你们肯；有个小伙子从蕨丛中爬出来，如果我在去奥尚的路上，他就会对我大喊大叫。

‘Glenure,’ said the other, ‘this is an ill subject for jesting.’
“格伦纽尔，”另一个人说，“这是一个不好开玩笑的话题。”

These two had now drawn close up and were gazing at me, while the two followers had halted about a stone-cast in the rear.
现在这两个人已经靠得很近，注视着我，而那两个追随者则停在了后面的一块石铸物旁。

‘And what seek ye in Aucharn?’ said Colin Roy Campbell of Glenure, him they called the Red Fox; for he it was that I had stopped.
“你们到奥尚来找什么？”格伦努尔的科林·罗伊·坎贝尔说道，他们称他为“红狐狸”。对他来说，是我停下来了。

‘The man that lives there,’ said I.
“住在那儿的那个人，”我说。

‘James of the Glens,’ says Glenure, musingly; and then to the lawyer: ‘Is he gathering his people, think ye?’
“格伦斯的詹姆斯，”格伦纽尔若有所思地说。然后对律师说：“你认为他正在召集他的人民吗？”

‘Anyway,’ says the lawyer, ‘we shall do better to bide where we are, and let the soldiers rally us.’
“无论如何，”律师说，“我们最好留在原地，让士兵们集结我们。”

‘If you are concerned for me,’ said I, ‘I am neither of his people nor yours, but an honest subject of King George, owing no man and fearing no man.’
“如果你关心我，”我说，“我既不是他的人民，也不是你的人民，而是乔治国王的诚实臣民，不欠任何人，也不惧怕任何人。”

‘Why, very well said,’ replies the Factor. ‘But if I may make so bold as ask, what does this honest man so far from his country? and why does he come seeking the brother of Ardshiel? I have power here, I must tell you. I am King’s Factor upon several of these estates, and have twelve files of soldiers at my back.’
“为什么，说得很好，”因素回答道。 “但是，如果我可以大胆地问一下，这个远离祖国的诚实人到底在做什么？他为什么来寻找阿德希尔的兄弟？我必须告诉你，我在这里有权力。我是其中几个庄园的国王因素，我身后有十二列士兵。

‘I have heard a waif word in the country,’ said I, a little nettled, ‘that you were a hard man to drive.’
“我在乡下听到过一句怪话，”我有点恼火地说，“你是个很难开车的人。”

He still kept looking at me, as if in doubt.
他仍然看着我，似乎有些怀疑。

‘Well,’ said he, at last, ‘your tongue is bold; but I am no unfriend to plainness. If ye had asked me the way to the door of James Stewart on any other day but this, I would have set ye right and bidden ye God speed. But to-day — eh, Mungo?’ And he turned again to look at the lawyer.
“好吧，”他最后说道，“你的舌头很大胆；但我对朴素并不陌生。如果你们在其他任何一天问我去詹姆斯·斯图尔特门口的路，除了今天，我都会为你们指路，并请上帝加快速度。但今天——呃，蒙戈？”他再次转身看着律师。

But just as he turned there came the shot of a firelock from higher up the hill; and with the very sound of it Glenure fell upon the road.
但正当他转身时，山上更高的地方传来了火枪的射击声；随着一声巨响，格伦努尔倒在了路上。

‘O, I am dead!’ he cried, several times over.
“噢，我死了！”他喊了好几次。

The lawyer had caught him up and held him in his arms, the servant standing over and clasping his hands. And now the wounded man looked from one to another with scared eyes, and there was a change in his voice, that went to the heart.
律师抓住了他，把他抱在怀里，仆人站在旁边，握住他的双手。现在，那个受伤的人用惊恐的眼神看着另一个人，他的声音也发生了一种直击人心的变化。

‘Take care of yourselves,’ says he. ‘I am dead.’
“照顾好自己，”他说。 '我死了。'

He tried to open his clothes as if to look for the wound, but his fingers slipped on the buttons. With that he gave a great sigh, his head rolled on his shoulder, and he passed away.
他试图解开衣服，像是要寻找伤口，但手指却在纽扣上滑落。说完，他长长地叹了口气，把头靠在肩上，就死了。

The lawyer said never a word, but his face was as sharp as a pen and as white as the dead man’s; the servant broke out into a great noise of crying and weeping, like a child; and I, on my side, stood staring at them in a kind of horror. The sheriff’s officer had run back at the first sound of the shot, to hasten the coming of the soldiers.
律师一言不发，但他的脸像钢笔一样锐利，像死者一样苍白。仆人像个孩子一样放声大哭。而我则站在一边，惊恐地看着他们。一听到枪声，治安官就跑了回来，以催促士兵们赶来。

At last the lawyer laid down the dead man in his blood upon the road, and got to his own feet with a kind of stagger.
最后，律师把沾着血的死者放在路上，摇摇晃晃地站了起来。

I believe it was his movement that brought me to my senses; for he had no sooner done so than I began to scramble up the hill, crying out, ‘The murderer! the murderer!’
我相信是他的动作让我回过神来。他刚一这么做，我就开始爬上山，大喊：“凶手！”杀人犯！'

So little a time had elapsed, that when I got to the top of the first steepness, and could see some part of the open mountain, the murderer was still moving away at no great distance. He was a big man, in a black coat, with metal buttons, and carried a long fowling-piece.
时间过去了这么短，当我到达第一个陡峭的山顶，可以看到开阔山的一部分时，凶手仍然在不远的地方走开。他身材高大，穿着一件黑色外套，上面有金属纽扣，手里拿着一根长长的捕鸟器。

‘Here!’ I cried. ‘I see him!’
“这里！”我喊道。 “我看到他了！”

At that the murderer gave a little, quick look over his shoulder, and began to run. The next moment he was lost in a fringe of birches; then he came out again on the upper side, where I could see him climbing like a jackanapes, for that part was again very steep; and then he dipped behind a shoulder, and I saw him no more.
凶手迅速回头看了一眼，然后开始逃跑。下一刻，他就迷失在一片白桦树丛中了。然后他又从上面出来了，我可以看到他像鹿一样攀爬，因为那部分又非常陡峭。然后他就躲到了肩膀后面，我就再也看不见他了。

All this time I had been running on my side, and had got a good way up, when a voice cried upon me to stand.
一直以来，我一直都是侧着跑，已经跑得很远了，这时一个声音叫我站起来。

I was at the edge of the upper wood, and so now, when I halted and looked back, I saw all the open part of the hill below me.
我当时正处于上层树林的边缘，所以现在，当我停下来回头看时，我看到了下面山丘的所有开阔部分。

The lawyer and the sheriff’s officer were standing just above the road, crying and waving on me to come back; and on their left, the red-coats, musket in hand, were beginning to struggle singly out of the lower wood.
律师和治安官就站在路边，哭着向我招手，让我回来。在他们的左边，红衣战士们手里拿着步枪，正开始独自从较低的树林里挣扎出来。

‘Why should I come back?’ I cried. ‘Come you on!’
“我为什么要回来？”我喊道。 “来吧！”

‘Ten pounds if ye take that lad!’ cried the lawyer. ‘He’s an accomplice. He was posted here to hold us in talk.’
“如果你带走那个小伙子，十英镑！”律师喊道。 ‘他是同谋。他被派到这里是为了让我们谈话。

At that word (which I could hear quite plainly, though it was to the soldiers and not to me that he was crying it) my heart came in my mouth with quite a new kind of terror. Indeed, it is one thing to stand the danger of your life, and quite another to run the peril of both life and character. The thing, besides, had come so suddenly, like thunder out of a clear sky, that I was all amazed and helpless.
听到这句话（我听得很清楚，虽然他是对着士兵们而不是对我哭的），我的心充满了一种全新的恐惧。事实上，冒着生命危险是一回事，冒着生命和品格的危险又是另一回事。而且这件事来得太突然，就像晴天霹雳一样，让我既惊讶又无奈。

The soldiers began to spread, some of them to run, and others to put up their pieces and cover me; and still I stood.
士兵们开始分散开来，有的逃跑，有的收起棋子来掩护我。但我仍然站着。

‘Jock[18] in here among the trees,’ said a voice close by.
“乔克[18]在树林里，”附近的一个声音说道。

[18]Duck.
[18]鸭子。

Indeed, I scarce knew what I was doing, but I obeyed; and as I did so, I heard the firelocks bang and the balls whistle in the birches.
事实上，我几乎不知道自己在做什么，但我服从了；当我这样做的时候，我听到火枪爆炸，球在桦树丛中发出呼啸声。

Just inside the shelter of the trees I found Alan Breck standing, with a fishing-rod. He gave me no salutation; indeed it was no time for civilities; only ‘Come!’ says he, and set off running along the side of the mountain towards Balaehulish; and I, like a sheep, to follow him.
就在树林的庇护所里，我发现艾伦·布雷克拿着一根钓鱼竿站着。他没有向我致意；事实上，现在不是讲礼貌的时候。他只是说：“来吧！”然后沿着山坡向巴拉胡利什跑去。而我，就像一只羊，跟随他。

Now we ran among the birches; now stooping behind low humps upon the mountain-side; now crawling on all fours among the heather. The pace was deadly: my heart seemed bursting against my ribs; and I had neither time to think nor breath to speak with. Only I remember seeing with wonder, that Alan every now and then would straighten himself to his full height and look back; and every time he did so, there came a great far-away cheering and crying of the soldiers.
现在我们在白桦树丛中奔跑；现在弯腰在山坡上低矮的驼峰后面；现在用四肢在石南丛中爬行。步伐是致命的：我的心似乎要冲破我的肋骨；我没有时间思考，也没有呼吸来说话。只有我记得惊奇地看到艾伦时不时地挺直身子并回头看；每次他这样做，远处就会传来士兵们的欢呼声和哭声。

Quarter of an hour later, Alan stopped, clapped down flat in the heather, and turned to me.
一刻钟后，艾伦停了下来，平躺在石南丛中，然后转向我。

‘Now,’ said he, ‘it’s earnest. Do as I do, for your life.’
“现在，”他说，“这是认真的。”为了你的生活，像我一样做。”

And at the same speed, but now with infinitely more precaution, we traced back again across the mountain-side by the same way that we had come, only perhaps higher; till at last Alan threw himself down in the upper wood of Lettermore, where I had found him at the first, and lay, with his face in the bracken, panting like a dog.
我们以同样的速度，但现在更加谨慎，沿着来时的路再次穿过山腰，只是可能更高一些。直到最后，艾伦倒在了莱特莫尔的高处树林里，我就是在那里第一次发现他的，他躺在那里，脸埋在蕨丛里，像狗一样喘着粗气。

My own sides so ached, my head so swam, my tongue so hung out of my mouth with heat and dryness, that I lay beside him like one dead.
我自己的两侧如此疼痛，我的头如此晕眩，我的舌头因炎热和干燥而从嘴里伸出来，我像死人一样躺在他身边。

CHAPTER XVIII
第十八章


I TALK WITH ALAN IN THE WOOD OF LETTERMORE
我在莱特莫尔森林里与艾伦交谈

Alan was the first to come round. He rose, went to the border of the wood, peered out a little, and then returned and sat down.
艾伦是第一个过来的。他站起来，走到树林边缘，向外看了看，然后又回来坐下。

‘Well,’ said he, ‘yon was a hot burst, David.’
“好吧，”他说，“大卫，你真是热血沸腾。”

I said nothing, nor so much as lifted my face. I had seen murder done, and a great, ruddy, jovial gentleman struck out of life in a moment; the pity of that sight was still sore within me, and yet that was but a part of my concern. Here was murder done upon the man Alan hated; here was Alan skulking in the trees and running from the troops; and whether his was the hand that fired or only the head that ordered, signified but little. By my way of it, my only friend in that wild country was blood-guilty in the first degree; I held him in horror; I could not look upon his face; I would have rather lain alone in the rain on my cold isle, than in that warm wood beside a murderer.
我什么也没说，连脸也没有抬起来。我亲眼目睹了一场谋杀，一位伟大、红润、快活的绅士瞬间就从生命中消失了。那景象的怜悯之情仍然在我心中刺痛，但这只是我关心的一部分。这是对艾伦所憎恨的人所进行的谋杀；艾伦躲在树林里，躲避军队。无论是他的手开火，还是只是他的头发出命令，都没有什么意义。据我所知，我在那个荒野国家唯一的朋友犯有一级流血罪。我惊恐地抱住他；我无法直视他的脸；我宁愿独自躺在寒冷的小岛上的雨中，也不愿在温暖的树林里与凶手在一起。

‘Are ye still wearied?’ he asked again.
“你们还累吗？”他又问。

‘No,’ said I, still with my face in the bracken; ‘no, I am not wearied now, and I can speak. You and me must twine,’[19] I said. ‘I liked you very well, Alan, but your ways are not mine, and they’re not God’s: and the short and the long of it is just that we must twine.’
“不，”我说，脸仍然埋在蕨丛里。 ‘不，我现在不累，我还能说话。你和我必须缠绕在一起，”[19]我说。 “我非常喜欢你，艾伦，但你的道路不是我的，也不是上帝的：无论长短，我们都必须缠绕在一起。”

[19] Part.
[19]部分。

‘I will hardly twine from ye, David, without some kind of reason for the same,’ said Alan, mighty gravely. ‘If ye ken anything against my reputation, it’s the least thing that ye should do, for old acquaintance’ sake, to let me hear the name of it; and if ye have only taken a distaste to my society, it will be proper for me to judge if I’m insulted.’
“如果没有某种原因，我不会和你纠缠在一起，大卫，”艾伦严肃地说。 “如果你们发现任何有损我名誉的事情，看在老熟人的份上，你们最不应该做的就是让我听听它的名字；如果你们只是对我的社会感到厌恶，那么我应该判断我是否受到了侮辱。

‘Alan,’ said I, ‘what is the sense of this? Ye ken very well yon Campbell-man lies in his blood upon the road.’
“艾伦，”我说，“这有什么意义呢？你很清楚，坎贝尔人躺在路上，身上沾满了鲜血。”

He was silent for a little; then says he, ‘Did ever ye hear tell of the story of the Man and the Good People?’ — by which he meant the fairies.
他沉默了一会儿。然后他说：“你们听说过人与好人的故事吗？”——他指的是仙女。

‘No,’ said I, ‘nor do I want to hear it.’
“不，”我说，“我也不想听。”

‘With your permission, Mr. Balfour, I will tell it you, whatever,’ says Alan. ‘The man, ye should ken, was cast upon a rock in the sea, where it appears the Good People were in use to come and rest as they went through to Ireland. The name of this rock is called the Skerryvore, and it’s not far from where we suffered ship-wreck. Well, it seems the man cried so sore, if he could just see his little bairn before he died! that at last the king of the Good People took peety upon him, and sent one flying that brought back the bairn in a poke[20] and laid it down beside the man where he lay sleeping. So when the man woke, there was a poke beside him and something into the inside of it that moved. Well, it seems he was one of these gentry that think aye the worst of things; and for greater security, he stuck his dirk throughout that poke before he opened it, and there was his bairn dead. I am thinking to myself, Mr. Balfour, that you and the man are very much alike.’
“如果你允许的话，贝尔福先生，我会告诉你，无论如何，”艾伦说。 “你们应该知道，这个人被扔在海里的一块岩石上，看来善良的人们在前往爱尔兰时曾来这里休息。这块岩石的名字叫“Skerryvore”，距离我们遭遇海难的地方不远。唉，看来这个男人哭得好伤心，要是他死前能看到他的小宝宝就好了！最后，善良人民的国王对他采取了小动作，派了一只飞来，用戳子带回了婴儿[20]，并将其放在他睡觉的那个人旁边。所以当那个人醒来时，他旁边有一个戳，里面有东西在动。嗯，看来他是那些把事情往最坏处想的绅士之一。为了更加安全，他在打开之前用匕首插进了那个戳，结果他的孩子就死了。我心里想，贝尔福先生，你和这个人非常相似。

[20] Bag.
[20] 袋子。

‘Do you mean you had no hand in it?’ cried I, sitting up.
“你的意思是说你没有插手？”我坐了起来，喊道。

‘I will tell you first of all, Mr. Balfour of Shaws, as one friend to another,’ said Alan, ‘that if I were going to kill a gentleman, it would not be in my own country, to bring trouble on my clan; and I would not go wanting sword and gun, and with a long fishing-rod upon my back.’
“我首先要告诉你，萧氏的贝尔福先生，作为一个朋友，”艾伦说，“如果我要杀死一位绅士，那不会是在我自己的国家，给我的家人带来麻烦。”氏族;我不会想要剑和枪，也不会背上一根长钓鱼竿。”

‘Well,’ said I, ‘that’s true!’
“嗯，”我说，“确实如此！”

‘And now,’ continued Alan, taking out his dirk and laying his hand upon it in a certain manner, ‘I swear upon the Holy Iron I had neither art nor part, act nor thought in it.’
“现在，”艾伦继续说道，拿出他的匕首，以某种方式把手放在上面，“我对圣铁发誓，我在其中既没有艺术，也没有参与，没有行动，也没有思考。”

‘I thank God for that!’ cried I, and offered him my hand.
“我为此感谢上帝！”我喊道，并向他伸出了我的手。

He did not appear to see it.
他似乎没有看到。

‘And here is a great deal of work about a Campbell!’ said he. ‘They are not so scarce, that I ken!’
“这里有大量关于坎贝尔的工作！”他说。 “我确信它们并不那么稀缺！”

‘At least,’ said I, ‘you cannot justly blame me, for you know very well what you told me in the brig. But the temptation and the act are different, I thank God again for that. We may all be tempted; but to take a life in cold blood, Alan!’ And I could say no more for the moment. ‘And do you know who did it?’ I added. ‘Do you know that man in the black coat?’
“至少，”我说，“你不能公正地责怪我，因为你很清楚你在双桅船里告诉我的事情。但诱惑和行为是不同的，我为此再次感谢上帝。我们都可能受到诱惑；但要冷血地夺取生命，艾伦！”我暂时无法再说什么了。 “你知道是谁干的吗？”我补充道。 “你认识那个穿黑外套的男人吗？”

‘I have nae clear mind about his coat,’ said Alan cunningly, ‘but it sticks in my head that it was blue.’
“我对他的外套不太清楚，”艾伦狡猾地说，“但我脑子里一直记得那件外套是蓝色的。”

‘Blue or black, did ye know him?’ said I.
“蓝色还是黑色，你认识他吗？”我说。

‘I couldnae just conscientiously swear to him,’ says Alan. ‘He gaed very close by me, to be sure, but it’s a strange thing that I should just have been tying my brogues.’
“我不能只是认真地向他发誓，”艾伦说。 “当然，他离我很近，但奇怪的是我应该只是系上我的布洛克鞋。”

‘Can you swear that you don’t know him, Alan?’ I cried, half angered, half in a mind to laugh at his evasions.
“你能发誓你不认识他吗，艾伦？”我喊道，一半是愤怒，一半是想嘲笑他的逃避。

‘Not yet,’ says he; ‘but I’ve a grand memory for forgetting, David.’
“还没有，”他说。 “但我的记忆力很强，很容易忘记，大卫。”

‘And yet there was one thing I saw clearly,’ said I; ‘and that was, that you exposed yourself and me to draw the soldiers.’
“然而有一件事我看得很清楚，”我说； “那就是，你暴露了自己和我来吸引士兵。”

‘It’s very likely,’ said Alan; ‘and so would any gentleman. You and me were innocent of that transaction.’
“很有可能，”艾伦说。 ’任何一位绅士都会如此。你和我在这次交易中都是无辜的。

‘The better reason, since we were falsely suspected, that we should get clear,’ I cried. ‘The innocent should surely come before the guilty.’
“既然我们被错误地怀疑，更好的理由就是我们应该澄清，”我喊道。 “无辜者肯定应该先于有罪者。”

‘Why, David,’ said he, ‘the innocent have aye a chance to get assoiled in court; but for the lad that shot the bullet, I think the best place for him will be the heather. Them that havenae dipped their hands in any little difficulty, should be very mindful of the case of them that have. And that is the good Christianity. For if it was the other way round about, and the lad whom I couldnae just clearly see had been in our shoes, and we in his (as might very well have been), I think we would be a good deal obliged to him oursel’s if he would draw the soldiers.’
“为什么，大卫，”他说，“无辜者有机会在法庭上受到伤害；但对于那个射出子弹的小伙子来说，我认为最适合他的地方就是石南花丛。那些曾经遇到过任何小困难的人，应该非常注意那些遇到困难的人的情况。这就是美好的基督教。因为如果情况正好相反，而我无法清楚地看到的那个小伙子处于我们的立场，而我们处于他的立场（很可能就是这样），我想我们会非常感谢他自己的立场。如果他愿意吸引士兵的话。

When it came to this, I gave Alan up. But he looked so innocent all the time, and was in such clear good faith in what he said, and so ready to sacrifice himself for what he deemed his duty, that my mouth was closed. Mr. Henderland’s words came back to me: that we ourselves might take a lesson by these wild Highlanders. Well, here I had taken mine. Alan’s morals were all tail-first; but he was ready to give his life for them, such as they were.
说到这里，我放弃了艾伦。但他始终看上去那么天真，对自己所说的话充满诚意，并且准备好为了他认为自己的职责而牺牲自己，以至于我闭嘴了。我想起了亨德兰先生的话：我们自己可以向这些狂野的高地人吸取教训。好吧，我已经拿走了我的。艾伦的道德观是尾巴优先。但他已经准备好为他们献出自己的生命，就像他们一样。

‘Alan,’ said I, ‘I’ll not say it’s the good Christianity as I understand it, but it’s good enough. And here I offer ye my hand for the second time.’
“艾伦，”我说，“我不会说这是我所理解的好的基督教，但它已经足够好了。在这里，我第二次向你们伸出我的手。

Whereupon he gave me both of his, saying surely I had cast a spell upon him, for he could forgive me anything. Then he grew very grave, and said we had not much time to throw away, but must both flee that country: he, because he was a deserter, and the whole of Appin would now be searched like a chamber, and every one obliged to give a good account of himself; and I, because I was certainly involved in the murder.
于是他把他的两个都给了我，说我肯定对他施了咒语，因为他可以原谅我任何事情。然后他变得非常严肃，说我们没有多少时间可以扔掉，但必须逃离那个国家：他，因为他是一个逃兵，整个阿平现在将像一个房间一样被搜查，每个人都必须好好表现自己；还有我，因为我肯定参与了这起谋杀案。

‘O!’ says I, willing to give him a little lesson, ‘I have no fear of the justice of my country.’
“哦！”我说，愿意给他一点教训，“我并不担心我国家的正义。”

‘As if this was your country!’ said he. ‘Or as if ye would be tried here, in a country of Stewarts!’
“就好像这是你的国家一样！”他说。 “或者就好像你们会在这里，在斯图尔特的国家里受到审判一样！”

‘It’s all Scotland,’ said I.
“这都是苏格兰，”我说。

‘Man, I whiles wonder at ye,’ said Alan. ‘This is a Campbell that’s been killed. Well, it’ll be tried in Inverara, the Campbells’ head place; with fifteen Campbells in the jury-box and the biggest Campbell of all (and that’s the Duke) sitting cocking on the bench. Justice, David? The same justice, by all the world, as Glenure found awhile ago at the roadside.’
“伙计，我很奇怪你，”艾伦说。 “这是被杀的坎贝尔。好吧，它将在坎贝尔夫妇的总部所在地因弗拉拉进行尝试；陪审团里有十五个坎贝尔，而最大的坎贝尔（那就是公爵）坐在板凳上。正义，大卫？全世界都给予同样的正义，就像格伦纽尔不久前在路边发现的那样。

This frightened me a little, I confess, and would have frightened me more if I had known how nearly exact were Alan’s predictions; indeed it was but in one point that he exaggerated, there being but eleven Campbells on the jury; though as the other four were equally in the Duke’s dependence, it mattered less than might appear. Still, I cried out that he was unjust to the Duke of Argyle, who (for all he was a Whig) was yet a wise and honest nobleman.
我承认，这让我有点害怕，如果我知道艾伦的预测有多么准确的话，我会更害怕。事实上，他只是在某一点上夸大了，因为陪审团中只有十一个坎贝尔。尽管其他四人同样受公爵的依赖，但这并没有看上去那么重要。尽管如此，我仍然大声疾呼，他对阿盖尔公爵不公正，他（尽管他是辉格党人）却是一位明智而诚实的贵族。

‘Hoot!’ said Alan, ‘the man’s a Whig, nae doubt; but I would never deny he was a good chieftain to his clan. And what would the clan think if there was a Campbell shot, and naebody hanged, and their own chief the Justice General? But I have often observed,’ says Alan, ‘that you Low-country bodies have no clear idea of what’s right and wrong.’
“嘘！”艾伦说，“毫无疑问，这个人是辉格党人；但我绝不会否认他是他氏族的一位好酋长。如果坎贝尔被枪杀，一个人被绞死，而他们自己的酋长是司法部长，部落会怎么想？但我经常观察到，”艾伦说，“你们这些低地国家的机构并不清楚什么是对什么是错。”

At this I did at last laugh out aloud, when to my surprise, Alan joined in, and laughed as merrily as myself.
听到这里，我终于放声大笑起来，令我惊讶的是，艾伦也加入了进来，笑得和我一样开心。

‘Na, na,’ said he, ‘we’re in the Hielands, David; and when I tell ye to run, take my word and run. Nae doubt it’s a hard thing to skulk and starve in the Heather, but it’s harder yet to lie shackled in a red-coat prison.’
“不，不，”他说，“我们在希尔兰，大卫；当我叫你们跑的时候，请相信我的话，跑吧。毫无疑问，在石南丛中躲藏和挨饿是一件很难的事情，但戴着镣铐躺在红大衣监狱里更难。

I asked him whither we should flee; and as he told me ‘to the Lowlands,’ I was a little better inclined to go with him; for, indeed, I was growing impatient to get back and have the upper-hand of my uncle. Besides, Alan made so sure there would be no question of justice in the matter, that I began to be afraid he might be right. Of all deaths, I would truly like least to die by the gallows; and the picture of that uncanny instrument came into my head with extraordinary clearness (as I had once seen it engraved at the top of a pedlar’s ballad) and took away my appetite for courts of justice.
我问他我们该逃往哪里？当他告诉我“去低地”时，我更倾向于和他一起去。因为，事实上，我越来越不耐烦地想要回去并占据叔叔的上风。此外，艾伦确信这件事不会存在正义问题，因此我开始担心他可能是对的。在所有的死亡中，我最不愿意死在绞刑架上。那件不可思议的乐器的画面异常清晰地出现在我的脑海中（就像我曾经看到它刻在小贩民谣的顶部一样），并消除了我对法庭的兴趣。

‘I’ll chance it, Alan,’ said I. ‘I’ll go with you.’
“我会碰碰运气的，艾伦，”我说，“我会和你一起去。”

‘But mind you,’ said Alan, ‘it’s no small thing. Ye maun lie bare and hard, and brook many an empty belly. Your bed shall be the moorcock’s, and your life shall be like the hunted deer’s, and ye shall sleep with your hand upon your weapons. Ay, man, ye shall taigle many a weary foot, or we get clear! I tell ye this at the start, for it’s a life that I ken well. But if ye ask what other chance ye have, I answer: Nane. Either take to the heather with me, or else hang.’
“但是请注意，”艾伦说，“这不是一件小事。叶玛恩赤身裸体，硬邦邦地躺着，让许多人空着肚子。你的床将是停泊处的，你的生活将像被猎杀的鹿一样，你将把手放在武器上睡觉。哎呀，伙计，你们会拖着许多疲惫的脚，否则我们就走开！我一开始就告诉你们这一点，因为这是我熟悉的生活。但如果你问还有什么其他机会，我的回答是：Nane。要么跟我一起去石南花丛，要么就挂掉。

‘And that’s a choice very easily made,’ said I; and we shook hands upon it.
“这是一个很容易做出的选择，”我说。我们握手了。

‘And now let’s take another keek at the red-coats,’ says Alan, and he led me to the north-eastern fringe of the wood.
“现在让我们再看看红大衣，”艾伦说，然后他带我去了树林的东北边缘。

Looking out between the trees, we could see a great side of mountain, running down exceeding steep into the waters of the loch. It was a rough part, all hanging stone, and heather, and big scrogs of birchwood; and away at the far end towards Balachulish, little wee red soldiers were dipping up and down over hill and howe, and growing smaller every minute. There was no cheering now, for I think they had other uses for what breath was left them; but they still stuck to the trail, and doubtless thought that we were close in front of them.
往树林间望去，我们可以看到一座巨大的山坡，陡峭地延伸到湖水中。这是一个粗糙的部分，全是悬挂的石头、石南花和大桦木。在远处巴拉胡利什的尽头，红色的小士兵在山坡和豪地上上下移动，每一分钟都在变小。现在没有欢呼声了，因为我认为他们剩下的呼吸还有其他用途。但他们仍然沿着小路走，毫无疑问地认为我们已经在他们前面了。

Alan watched them, smiling to himself.
艾伦看着他们，暗自微笑。

‘Ay,’ said he, ‘they’ll be gey weary before they’ve got to the end of that employ! And so you and me, David, can sit down and eat a bite, and breathe a bit longer, and take a dram from my bottle. Then we’ll strike for Aucharn, the house of my kinsman, James of the Glens, where I must get my clothes, and my arms, and money to carry us along; and then, David, we’ll cry, ‘Forth, Fortune!’ and take a cast among the heather.’
“哎呀，”他说，“在他们完成这项工作之前，他们就会感到疲倦的！”这样你和我，大卫，就可以坐下来吃点东西，再呼吸一会儿，然后从我的瓶子里喝一杯。然后我们将前往奥尚，我的亲戚，峡谷的詹姆斯的房子，我必须在那里得到我的衣服，我的武器，以及我们一路走来的钱；然后，大卫，我们会喊道：“命运啊，快来吧！”并在石南花丛中撒上石膏。

So we sat again and ate and drank, in a place whence we could see the sun going down into a field of great, wild, and houseless mountains, such as I was now condemned to wander in with my companion. Partly as we so sat, and partly afterwards, on the way to Aucharn, each of us narrated his adventures; and I shall here set down so much of Alan’s as seems either curious or needful.
于是我们又坐下来，吃吃喝喝，在一个可以看到太阳落入一片荒凉、无人居住的大山的地方，就像我现在注定要和我的同伴一起漫步的地方一样。一部分是在我们坐着的时候，一部分是在去奥尚的路上，我们每个人都讲述了他的冒险经历。我将在这里记录下艾伦的大部分内容，无论是看起来好奇的还是有必要的。

It appears he ran to the bulwarks as soon as the wave was passed; saw me, and lost me, and saw me again, as I tumbled in the roost; and at last had one glimpse of me clinging on the yard. It was this that put him in some hope I would maybe get to land after all, and made him leave those clues and messages which had brought me (for my sins) to that unlucky country of Appin.
看来波浪一过去，他就跑向舷墙。看见了我，又失去了我，当我在栖息处翻滚时，又看见了我；终于瞥见我紧贴在院子里。正是这一点让他对我最终可能会着陆产生了一些希望，并让他留下了那些把我（因为我的罪孽）带到阿平那个不幸的国家的线索和信息。

In the meanwhile, those still on the brig had got the skiff launched, and one or two were on board of her already, when there came a second wave greater than the first, and heaved the brig out of her place, and would certainly have sent her to the bottom, had she not struck and caught on some projection of the reef. When she had struck first, it had been bows-on, so that the stern had hitherto been lowest. But now her stern was thrown in the air, and the bows plunged under the sea; and with that, the water began to pour into the fore-scuttle like the pouring of a mill-dam.
与此同时，那些仍在双桅船上的人已经把小艇下水了，一两个人已经在她身上了，当第二波比第一波更大的波浪到来时，他们把双桅船从她的位置上拉了出来，肯定会如果她没有撞到并抓住礁石的一些突出物，就会把她送到海底。当她首先出击时，船头是朝上的，因此船尾迄今为止处于最低位置。但现在她的船尾被抛在空中，船头则沉入海底。就这样，水开始像磨坊水坝一样涌入前舷窗。

It took the colour out of Alan’s face, even to tell what followed. For there were still two men lying impotent in their bunks; and these, seeing the water pour in and thinking the ship had foundered, began to cry out aloud, and that with such harrowing cries that all who were on deck tumbled one after another into the skiff and fell to their oars. They were not two hundred yards away, when there came a third great sea; and at that the brig lifted clean over the reef; her canvas filled for a moment, and she seemed to sail in chase of them, but settling all the while; and presently she drew down and down, as if a hand was drawing her; and the sea closed over the Covenant of Dysart.
艾伦的脸色变得苍白，甚至无法说出接下来发生的事情。因为还有两个人无力地躺在他们的铺位上。这些人看到水涌进来，以为船已经沉没了，开始大声喊叫，喊声如此凄惨，甲板上的所有人纷纷跌入小船，跌倒在桨上。距离他们还不到两百码，第三片大海出现了。就在此时，双桅船干净地升到了礁石上。她的画布一时充满了，她似乎在追逐他们，但同时又稳定下来。不久，她就往下拉，往下拉，好像有一只手在拉她。大海淹没了戴萨特盟约。

Never a word they spoke as they pulled ashore, being stunned with the horror of that screaming; but they had scarce set foot upon the beach when Hoseason woke up, as if out of a muse, and bade them lay hands upon Alan. They hung back indeed, having little taste for the employment; but Hoseason was like a fiend, crying that Alan was alone, that he had a great sum about him, that he had been the means of losing the brig and drowning all their comrades, and that here was both revenge and wealth upon a single cast. It was seven against one; in that part of the shore there was no rock that Alan could set his back to; and the sailors began to spread out and come behind him.
当他们靠岸时，他们一言不发，被那可怕的尖叫声惊呆了。但他们刚踏上海滩，霍萨森就醒了过来，仿佛从沉思中醒来，并命令他们把手放在艾伦身上。他们确实犹豫不决，对这份工作没什么兴趣。但霍西森就像一个恶魔，哭喊着艾伦孤身一人，他身上有一大笔钱，他是失去双桅船和淹死他们所有战友的手段，而这里既是复仇又是财富。 。比赛是七对一；在那片海岸上，没有艾伦可以靠背的岩石。水手们开始散开，来到他身后。

‘And then,’ said Alan, ‘the little man with the red head — I havenae mind of the name that he is called.’
“然后，”艾伦说，“那个红头发的小个子男人——我不记得他叫什么名字了。”

‘Riach,’ said I.
“里亚奇，”我说。

‘Ay’ said Alan, ‘Riach! Well, it was him that took up the clubs for me, asked the men if they werenae feared of a judgment, and, says he ‘Dod, I’ll put my back to the Hielandman’s mysel’.’ That’s none such an entirely bad little man, yon little man with the red head,’ said Alan. ‘He has some spunks of decency.’
“啊，”艾伦说，“利亚奇！好吧，是他替我拿起了球杆，问这些人是否害怕审判，然后他说：“多德，我会背对着希兰德曼的。”这并不是完全坏事。小个子，那个红头发的小个子，”艾伦说。 “他有一些正派的勇气。”

‘Well,’ said I, ‘he was kind to me in his way.’
“嗯，”我说，“他以他的方式对我很好。”

‘And so he was to Alan,’ said he; ‘and by my troth, I found his way a very good one! But ye see, David, the loss of the ship and the cries of these poor lads sat very ill upon the man; and I’m thinking that would be the cause of it.’
“对艾伦来说也是如此，”他说。 “老实说，我发现他的方法非常好！”但是大卫，你看，船的失事和这些可怜的孩子们的哭声让这个人感到非常难过。我认为这就是原因。

‘Well, I would think so,’ says I; ‘for he was as keen as any of the rest at the beginning. But how did Hoseason take it?’
“嗯，我想是这样，”我说。 “因为他一开始就和其他人一样热心。但霍塞森是如何看待这个问题的呢？

‘It sticks in my mind that he would take it very ill,’ says Alan. ‘But the little man cried to me to run, and indeed I thought it was a good observe, and ran. The last that I saw they were all in a knot upon the beach, like folk that were not agreeing very well together.’
“我一直觉得他会很不高兴，”艾伦说。 “但是那个小个子男人喊着要我跑，我确实认为这是一个很好的观察，然后就跑了。我最后一次看到他们在海滩上结成一团，就像人们意见不一致一样。

‘What do you mean by that?’ said I.
“你这是什么意思？”我说。

‘Well, the fists were going,’ said Alan; ‘and I saw one man go down like a pair of breeks. But I thought it would be better no to wait. Ye see there’s a strip of Campbells in that end of Mull, which is no good company for a gentleman like me. If it hadnae been for that I would have waited and looked for ye mysel’, let alone giving a hand to the little man.’ (It was droll how Alan dwelt on Mr. Riach’s stature, for, to say the truth, the one was not much smaller than the other.) ‘So,’ says he, continuing, ‘I set my best foot forward, and whenever I met in with any one I cried out there was a wreck ashore. Man, they didnae sto p to fash with me! Ye should have seen them linking for the beach! And when they got there they found they had had the pleasure of a run, which is aye good for a Campbell. I’m thinking it was a judgment on the clan that the brig went down in the lump and didnae break. But it was a very unlucky thing for you, that same; for if any wreck had come ashore they would have hunted high and low, and would soon have found ye.’
“好吧，拳头正在挥动，”艾伦说。 “我看到一个人像两条小溪一样倒下去。但我认为最好不要等待。你看，马尔那头有一条坎贝尔街，对于像我这样的绅士来说，这可不是什么好伙伴。如果不是这样的话，我就会自己等着，去找你们，更不用说向这个小个子伸出援助之手了。”（艾伦如何看待里亚奇先生的身材，这真是滑稽，因为，说实话，那个人比另一个小不了多少。）“所以，”他继续说道，“我尽了最大的努力，每当我遇到任何人时，我都会大喊，岸上有一艘沉船。伙计，他们竟然没有停下来跟我一起玩！你们应该看到他们连接到海滩！当他们到达那里时，他们发现自己享受了跑步的乐趣，这对坎贝尔来说是一件好事。我认为双桅船整体沉没并且破裂是对部落的判断。但这对你来说是一件非常不幸的事情，同样的；因为如果有任何沉船上岸，他们就会到处搜寻，很快就会找到你们。

CHAPTER XIX
第十九章


THE HOUSE OF FEAR
恐惧之屋

Night fell as we were walking, and the clouds, which had broken up in the afternoon, settled in and thickened, so that it fell, for the season of the year, extremely dark. The way we went was over rough mountainsides; and though Alan pushed on with an assured manner, I could by no means see how he directed himself.
我们走着走着，夜幕降临了，下午散开的云层又聚拢起来，变得越来越厚，因此，对于一年中的这个季节来说，天色极其黑暗。我们所走的路是崎岖的山坡。尽管艾伦自信地继续说下去，但我根本看不出他是如何指导自己的。

At last, about half-past ten of the clock, we came to the top of a brae, and saw lights below us. It seemed a house door stood open and let out a beam of fire and candle-light; and all round the house and steading five or six persons were moving hurriedly about, each carrying a lighted brand.
最后，大约十点半，我们来到了一个布雷的顶部，看到下面有灯光。似乎有一扇门开着，发出一束火光和烛光；房子周围有五六个人在匆忙走动，每个人都拿着一个发光的牌子。

‘James must have tint his wits,’ said Alan. ‘If this was the soldiers instead of you and me, he would be in a bonny mess. But I dare say he’ll have a sentry on the road, and he would ken well enough no soldiers would find the way that we came.’
“詹姆斯一定是聪明了，”艾伦说。 “如果这是士兵而不是你和我，他就会陷入困境。但我敢说他会在路上派哨兵，而且他很清楚没有士兵会找到我们来的路。

Hereupon he whistled three times, in a particular manner. It was strange to see how, at the first sound of it, all the moving torches came to a stand, as if the bearers were affrighted; and how, at the third, the bustle began again as before.
于是他以一种特殊的方式吹了三声口哨。奇怪的是，当第一声响动时，所有移动的火把都停了下来，就好像火把们受到了惊吓一样。到了第三天，喧闹又像以前一样开始了。

Having thus set folks’ minds at rest, we came down the brae, and were met at the yard gate (for this place was like a well-doing farm) by a tall, handsome man of more than fifty, who cried out to Alan in the Gaelic.
就这样让人们的心平静下来，我们下了布雷，在院子门口（因为这里就像一个富裕的农场）迎接了一个五十多岁的高大英俊的男人，他向艾伦大声喊道：在盖尔语中。

‘James Stewart,’ said Alan, ‘I will ask ye to speak in Scotch, for here is a young gentleman with me that has nane of the other. This is him,’ he added, putting his arm through mine, ‘a young gentleman of the Lowlands, and a laird in his country too, but I am thinking it will be the better for his health if we give his name the go-by.’
“詹姆斯·斯图尔特，”艾伦说，“我请你们用苏格兰语说话，因为我身边有一位年轻的绅士，他和另一个人没有任何关系。”这就是他，”他挽着我的手臂补充道，“一位低地的年轻绅士，也是他国家的地主，但我想，如果我们允许他的名字出现，对他的健康会更好——经过。'

James of the Glens turned to me for a moment, and greeted me courteously enough; the next he had turned to Alan.
峡谷的詹姆斯转向我一会儿，很有礼貌地向我打招呼。接下来他转向艾伦。

‘This has been a dreadful accident,’ he cried. ‘It will bring trouble on the country.’ And he wrung his hands.
“这是一次可怕的事故，”他喊道。 “这会给国家带来麻烦。”他绞着双手。

‘Hoots!’ said Alan, ‘ye must take the sour with the sweet, man. Colin Roy is dead, and be thankful for that!’
“哎呀！”艾伦说，“你必须酸甜可口，伙计。”科林·罗伊死了，对此表示感谢！”

‘Ay’ said James, ‘and by my troth, I wish he was alive again! It’s all very fine to blow and boast beforehand; but now it’s done, Alan; and who’s to bear the wyte[21] of it? The accident fell out in Appin — mind ye that, Alan; it’s Appin that must pay; and I am a man that has a family.’
“是的，”詹姆斯说，“我真心实意地希望他还活着！”事前吹牛吹牛都挺好的；但现在已经完成了，艾伦；谁来承担它的后果[21]？事故发生在阿平——请注意，艾伦；必须由 Appin 付费；我是一个有家庭的男人。

[21]Blame.
[21]责备。

While this was going on I looked about me at the servants. Some were on ladders, digging in the thatch of the house or the farm buildings, from which they brought out guns, swords, and different weapons of war; others carried them away; and by the sound of mattock blows from somewhere farther down the brae, I suppose they buried them. Though they were all so busy, there prevailed no kind of order in their efforts; men struggled together for the same gun and ran into each other with their burning torches; and James was continually turning about from his talk with Alan, to cry out orders which were apparently never understood. The faces in the torchlight were like those of people overborne with hurry and panic; and though none spoke above his breath, their speech sounded both anxious and angry.
当这一切发生时，我环顾四周，看看仆人们。有些人站在梯子上，在房屋或农舍的茅草顶上挖洞，从里面拿出枪、剑和各种战争武器；有些人则爬上梯子，在房子或农舍的茅草顶上挖洞，从里面拿出枪、剑和各种战争武器；有些人则站在梯子上。其他人把他们带走了；从布雷下更远的地方传来鹤嘴锄的声音，我猜他们把他们埋了。尽管他们都很忙，但他们的工作毫无秩序。人们争夺同一把枪，并手持燃烧的火把相撞。詹姆斯不断地从与艾伦的谈话中转身，大声喊出显然从未被理解的命令。火把光下的脸就像是那些匆忙而惊慌的人。虽然没有人大声说话，但他们的讲话听起来既焦虑又愤怒。

It was about this time that a lassie came out of the house carrying a pack or bundle; and it has often made me smile to think how Alan’s instinct awoke at the mere sight of it.
大约在这个时候，一个小姑娘拎着一包东西从屋子里出来。一想到艾伦的本能在看到它时就被唤醒，我常常会心一笑。

‘What’s that the lassie has?’ he asked.
“那个小姑娘拿的是什么？”他问道。

‘We’re just setting the house in order, Alan,’ said James, in his frightened and somewhat fawning way. ‘They’ll search Appin with candles, and we must have all things straight. We’re digging the bit guns and swords into the moss, ye see; and these, I am thinking, will be your ain French clothes. We’ll be to bury them, I believe.’
“艾伦，我们只是把房子收拾好，”詹姆斯用他害怕的、有点阿谀奉承的方式说道。 “他们会用蜡烛搜查阿平，我们必须把一切都搞清楚。”你瞧，我们正在把小枪和剑挖进苔藓里；我想，这些将是你的法式服装。我相信我们会埋葬他们的。

‘Bury my French clothes!’ cried Alan. ‘Troth, no!’ And he laid hold upon the packet and retired into the barn to shift himself, recommending me in the meanwhile to his kinsman.
“埋掉我的法国衣服！”艾伦喊道。 “说实话，不！”他抓起包裹，退进谷仓换身，同时向他的亲戚推荐我。

James carried me accordingly into the kitchen, and sat down with me at table, smiling and talking at first in a very hospitable manner. But presently the gloom returned upon him; he sat frowning and biting his fingers; only remembered me from time to time; and then gave me but a word or two and a poor smile, and back into his private terrors. His wife sat by the fire and wept, with her face in her hands; his eldest son was crouched upon the floor, running over a great mass of papers and now and again setting one alight and burning it to the bitter end; all the while a servant lass with a red face was rummaging about the room, in a blind hurry of fear, and whimpering as she went; and every now and again one of the men would thrust in his face from the yard, and cry for orders.
詹姆斯把我抱进厨房，和我一起坐在餐桌旁，一开始微笑着交谈，态度非常好客。但不久之后，他又感到阴郁。他坐着，皱着眉头，咬着手指。只时不时想起我；然后只给了我一两句话和一个可怜的微笑，然后又回到了他内心的恐惧之中。他的妻子坐在火边哭泣，双手捂着脸。他的大儿子蹲在地板上，在一大堆文件上跑来跑去，时不时地点燃其中一张，把它烧成灰烬。与此同时，一个红着脸的女仆在房间里翻箱倒柜，因为恐惧而盲目，边走边抽泣。时不时地会有一个人从院子里冲到他的脸上，大声呼喊命令。

At last James could keep his seat no longer, and begged my permission to be so unmannerly as walk about. ‘I am but poor company altogether, sir,’ says he, ‘but I can think of nothing but this dreadful accident, and the trouble it is like to bring upon quite innocent persons.’
最后詹姆斯再也坐不住了，请求我允许他走来走去，这样不礼貌。 “我只是一个可怜的同伴，先生，”他说，“但除了这起可怕的事故，以及它给无辜者带来的麻烦之外，我什么也想不到。”

A little after he observed his son burning a paper which he thought should have been kept; and at that his excitement burst out so that it was painful to witness. He struck the lad repeatedly.
不久之后，他发现儿子烧了一张他认为应该保留的纸；这时他的兴奋爆发了，目睹这一幕令人痛苦。他多次殴打这个小伙子。

‘Are you gone gyte?’[22] he cried. ‘Do you wish to hang your father?’ and forgetful of my presence, carried on at him a long time together in the Gaelic, the young man answering nothing; only the wife, at the name of hanging, throwing her apron over her face and sobbing out louder than before.
“你走了吗？”[22]他喊道。 “你想吊死你的父亲吗？”他忘记了我的存在，用盖尔语对他问了很长时间，年轻人什么也没回答。只有妻子，以绞刑的名义，把围裙扔到脸上，哭得比以前更大声。

[22] Mad.
[22] 疯狂。

This was all wretched for a stranger like myself to hear and see; and I was right glad when Alan returned, looking like himself in his fine French clothes, though (to be sure) they were now grown almost too battered and withered to deserve the name of fine. I was then taken out in my turn by another of the sons, and given that change of clothing of which I had stood so long in need, and a pair of Highland brogues made of deer-leather, rather strange at first, but after a little practice very easy to the feet.
对于像我这样的陌生人来说，听到和看到这一切都是不幸的。当艾伦回来时，我很高兴，他穿着精美的法国衣服，看起来就像他自己，尽管（可以肯定的是）它们现在已经变得几乎太破烂和枯萎，不值得称得上是精美的。然后轮到我的另一个儿子带了出去，给了我长期需要的换洗衣服，还有一双鹿皮制成的高地布洛克鞋，一开始很奇怪，但过了一会儿稍微练习一下就很容易上脚了。

By the time I came back Alan must have told his story; for it seemed understood that I was to fly with him, and they were all busy upon our equipment. They gave us each a sword and pistols, though I professed my inability to use the former; and with these, and some ammunition, a bag of oatmeal, an iron pan, and a bottle of right French brandy, we were ready for the heather. Money, indeed, was lacking. I had about two guineas left; Alan’s belt having been despatched by another hand, that trusty messenger had no more than seventeen-pence to his whole fortune; and as for James, it appears he had brought himself so low with journeys to Edinburgh and legal expenses on behalf of the tenants, that he could only scrape together three-and-five-pence-halfpenny, the most of it in coppers.
当我回来时，艾伦一定已经讲述了他的故事。因为似乎大家都知道我要和他一起飞行，而他们都在忙着我们的设备。他们给了我们每人一把剑和手枪，尽管我声称我不会使用前者；有了这些，还有一些弹药、一袋燕麦片、一个铁锅和一瓶正宗的法国白兰地，我们就准备好了去石南花。确实缺钱。我还剩下大约两几尼；艾伦的腰带是由另一只手送来的，这位值得信赖的信使的全部财产只剩下十七便士了。至于詹姆斯，看来他在去爱丁堡的路费和代表房客的法律费用上已经很低了，以至于他只能凑到三便士半便士，其中大部分是铜板。

‘This’ll no do,’ said Alan.
“这不行，”艾伦说。

‘Ye must find a safe bit somewhere near by,’ said James, ‘and get word sent to me. Ye see, ye’ll have to get this business prettily off, Alan. This is no time to be stayed for a guinea or two. They’re sure to get wind of ye, sure to seek ye, and by my way of it, sure to lay on ye the wyte of this day’s accident. If it falls on you, it falls on me that am your near kinsman and harboured ye while ye were in the country. And if it comes on me——‘ he paused, and bit his fingers, with a white face. ‘It would be a painful thing for our friends if I was to hang,’ said he.
“你们必须在附近找到一个安全的地方，”詹姆斯说，“然后把消息传给我。”你看，你必须把这件事做得很好，艾伦。现在可不是为了一两个几尼而停留的时候。他们一定会听到你的风声，一定会来寻找你，并且通过我的方式，一定会告诉你今天的事故的原因。如果它落在你身上，它就落在我身上，我是你的近亲，在你在乡下时庇护着你。如果它发生在我身上——”他停顿了一下，咬着手指，脸色煞白。 “如果我被绞死，对我们的朋友来说将是一件痛苦的事情，”他说。

‘It would be an ill day for Appin,’ says Alan.
“对阿平来说，这将是糟糕的一天，”艾伦说。

‘It’s a day that sticks in my throat,’ said James. ‘O man, man, man—man Alan! you and me have spoken like two fools!’ he cried, striking his hand upon the wall so that the house rang again.
“这一天让我如鲠在喉，”詹姆斯说道。 ‘噢，伙计，伙计，伙计——伙计艾伦！你和我说得像两个傻瓜！”他喊道，用手敲打墙壁，屋子里又响了起来。

‘Well, and that’s true, too,’ said Alan; ‘and my friend from the Lowlands here’ (nodding at me) ‘gave me a good word upon that head, if I would only have listened to him.’
“嗯，这也是真的，”艾伦说。 “我来自低地的朋友”（向我点点头）“在这件事上给了我好话，如果我愿意听他的话就好了。”

‘But see here,’ said James, returning to his former manner, ‘if they lay me by the heels, Alan, it’s then that you’ll be needing the money. For with all that I have said and that you have said, it will look very black against the two of us; do ye mark that? Well, follow me out, and ye’ll, I’ll see that I’ll have to get a paper out against ye mysel’; have to offer a reward for ye; ay, will I! It’s a sore thing to do between such near friends; but if I get the dirdum[23] of this dreadful accident, I’ll have to fend for myself, man. Do ye see that?’
“但是你看，”詹姆斯又恢复了以前的态度，“如果他们对我不利，艾伦，那么你就需要钱了。”因为我所说的和你所说的一切，对我们两个人来说都是非常黑暗的。你们注意到了吗？好吧，跟我出去吧，我会看到我必须拿出一份文件来反对你们自己。必须为你们提供奖励；哎呀，我会的！在如此亲密的朋友之间做这件事是一件痛苦的事；但如果我因为这场可怕的事故而遭受痛苦[23]，我就得自己照顾自己了，伙计。你看到了吗？

[23] Blame.
[23] 责备。

He spoke with a pleading earnestness, taking Alan by the breast of the coat.
他抓住艾伦的衣襟，语气恳切地说道。

‘Ay’ said Alan, ‘I see that.’
“嗯，”艾伦说，“我明白了。”

‘And ye’ll have to be clear of the country, Alan — ay, and clear of Scotland — you and your friend from the Lowlands, too. For I’ll have to paper your friend from the Lowlands. Ye see that, Alan — say that ye see that!’
“你必须离开这个国家，艾伦——是的，离开苏格兰——你和你来自低地的朋友也必须离开。”因为我得给你来自低地的朋友送纸。你看到了，艾伦——说你看到了！

I thought Alan flushed a bit. ‘This is unco hard on me that brought him here, James,’ said he, throwing his head back. ‘It’s like making me a traitor!’
我觉得艾伦有点脸红。 “詹姆斯，把他带到这里来，对我来说太难了，”他向后仰着头说道。 “这就像让我成为叛徒一样！”

‘Now, Alan, man!’ cried James. ‘Look things in the face! He’ll be papered anyway; Mungo Campbell’ll be sure to paper him; what matters if I paper him too? And then, Alan, I am a man that has a family.’ And then, after a little pause on both sides, ‘And, Alan, it’ll be a jury of Campbells,’ said he.
“现在，艾伦，伙计！”詹姆斯喊道。 ‘看清事情的本质！不管怎样，他都会被贴上报纸的。蒙戈·坎贝尔一定会把他写下来的；如果我也给他贴纸有什么关系？然后，艾伦，我是一个有家庭的人。”然后，双方停顿了一下，“艾伦，这将是坎贝尔的陪审团，”他说。

‘There’s one thing,’ said Alan, musingly, ‘that naebody kens his name.’
“有一件事，”艾伦若有所思地说，“没人知道他的名字。”

‘Nor yet they shallnae, Alan! There’s my hand on that,’ cried James, for all the world as if he had really known my name and was foregoing some advantage. ‘But just the habit he was in, and what he looked like, and his age, and the like? I couldnae well do less.’
“他们也不会，艾伦！这是我的手，”詹姆斯喊道，仿佛他真的知道我的名字并且放弃了一些优势。 “但只是他的习惯、他的长相、他的年龄等等？我不能做得更少。

‘I wonder at your father’s son,’ cried Alan, sternly. ‘Would ye sell the lad with a gift? Would ye change his clothes and then betray him?’
“我对你父亲的儿子感到奇怪，”艾伦严厉地喊道。 ‘你愿意把这个小伙子连同礼物一起卖掉吗？你们会帮他换衣服然后背叛他吗？

‘No, no, Alan,’ said James. ‘No, no: the habit he took off — the habit Mungo saw him in.’ But I thought he seemed crestfallen; indeed, he was clutching at every straw, and all the time, I dare say, saw the faces of his hereditary foes on the bench, and in the jury-box, and the gallows in the background.
“不，不，艾伦，”詹姆斯说。 “不，不：他脱掉的习惯——蒙戈看到他时的习惯。”但我觉得他似乎垂头丧气。事实上，他紧紧抓住每一根救命稻草，我敢说，他一直在长凳上、陪审团席上和背景中的绞刑架上看到他世袭敌人的面孔。

‘Well, sir’ says Alan, turning to me, ‘what say ye to, that? Ye are here under the safeguard of my honour; and it’s my part to see nothing done but what shall please you.’
“好吧，先生，”艾伦转向我说道，“你对此有何看法？你们在这里受到我荣誉的保护；我的职责是不做任何事，只做令您满意的事。”

‘I have but one word to say,’ said I; ‘for to all this dispute I am a perfect stranger. But the plain common-sense is to set the blame where it belongs, and that is on the man who fired the shot. Paper him, as ye call it, set the hunt on him; and let honest, innocent folk show their faces in safety.’ But at this both Alan and James cried out in horror; bidding me hold my tongue, for that was not to be thought of; and asking me what the Camerons would think? (which confirmed me, it must have been a Cameron from Mamore that did the act) and if I did not see that the lad might be caught? ‘Ye havenae surely thought of that?’ said they, with such innocent earnestness, that my hands dropped at my side and I despaired of argument.
“我只有一​​句话要说，”我说道。 “对于所有这些争论，我是一个完全陌生的人。但简单的常识就是将责任归咎于开枪的人。正如你们所说，用纸把他包起来，开始追捕他；让诚实、无辜的人们安全地露面。”但艾伦和詹姆斯都惊恐地大喊起来。吩咐我闭嘴，因为那是不可想象的；并问我卡梅伦一家会怎么想？ （这证实了我的看法，这一定是来自马莫尔的卡梅伦干的）如果我没有看到这个小伙子可能会被抓住？ “你们肯定想到了这一点吗？”他们说道，语气如此天真、诚恳，以至于我的双手垂在身侧，我对争论感到绝望。

‘Very well, then,’ said I, ‘paper me, if you please, paper Alan, paper King George! We’re all three innocent, and that seems to be what’s wanted. But at least, sir,’ said I to James, recovering from my little fit of annoyance, ‘I am Alan’s friend, and if I can be helpful to friends of his, I will not stumble at the risk.’
“那好吧，”我说，“如果你愿意的话，纸片我，纸片艾伦，纸片乔治国王！”我们三个都是无辜的，这似乎就是我们想要的。但至少，先生，”我对詹姆斯说，从小小的烦恼中恢复过来，“我是艾伦的朋友，如果我能帮助他的朋友，我就不会冒这个险。”

I thought it best to put a fair face on my consent, for I saw Alan troubled; and, besides (thinks I to myself), as soon as my back is turned, they will paper me, as they call it, whether I consent or not. But in this I saw I was wrong; for I had no sooner said the words, than Mrs. Stewart leaped out of her chair, came running over to us, and wept first upon my neck and then on Alan’s, blessing God for our goodness to her family.
我认为最好摆出一副好脸来表示同意，因为我看到艾伦很烦恼。而且，除此之外（我心里想），只要我一转身，他们就会用纸糊住我，正如他们所说的那样，无论我是否同意。但在这一点上我发现我错了；我刚说完这句话，斯图尔特夫人就从椅子上跳起来，跑到我们身边，先是趴在我的脖子上，然后又趴在艾伦的脖子上哭泣，感谢上帝，感谢我们对她家人的善意。

‘As for you, Alan, it was no more than your bounden duty,’ she said. ‘But for this lad that has come here and seen us at our worst, and seen the goodman fleeching like a suitor, him that by rights should give his commands like any king — as for you, my lad,’ she says, ‘my heart is wae not to have your name, but I have your face; and as long as my heart beats under my bosom, I will keep it, and think of it, and bless it.’ And with that she kissed me, and burst once more into such sobbing, that I stood abashed.
“至于你，艾伦，这只不过是你义不容辞的责任，”她说。 “但是对于这个来到这里的小伙子来说，他看到了我们最糟糕的一面，看到了像求婚者一样的好人，他理应像任何国王一样下达命令——至于你，我的小伙子，”她说，“我的小伙子，”我的心没有你的名字，但我有你的脸；只要我的心在我的怀里跳动，我就会保留它，想着它，并祝福它。”说完，她吻了我，然后再次抽泣起来，我站在那里感到羞愧。

‘Hoot, hoot,’ said Alan, looking mighty silly. ‘The day comes unco soon in this month of July; and to-morrow there’ll be a fine to-do in Appin, a fine riding of dragoons, and crying of ‘Cruachan!’[24] and running of red-coats; and it behoves you and me to the sooner be gone.’
“嘘，嘘，”艾伦说道，看上去非常愚蠢。 “七月的这一天很快就到来了；明天在阿平将会有一件好事，一场精彩的龙骑兵骑马，以及“Cruachan！”的呼喊声[24]和红衣奔跑；你和我都应该尽快离开。

[24] The rallying-word of the Campbells.
[24] 坎贝尔夫妇的号召力。

Thereupon we said farewell, and set out again, bending somewhat eastwards, in a fine mild dark night, and over much the same broken country as before.
于是我们告别了，又出发了，在一个晴朗温和的黑夜里，稍微向东弯曲，经过的地方和以前一样破碎。

CHAPTER XX
第二十章


THE FLIGHT IN THE HEATHER: THE ROCKS
石南花丛中的飞行：岩石

Sometimes we walked, sometimes ran; and as it drew on to morning, walked ever the less and ran the more. Though, upon its face, that country appeared to be a desert, yet there were huts and houses of the people, of which we must have passed more than twenty, hidden in quiet places of the hills. When we came to one of these, Alan would leave me in the way, and go himself and rap upon the side of the house and speak awhile at the window with some sleeper awakened. This was to pass the news; which, in that country, was so much of a duty that Alan must pause to attend to it even while fleeing for his life; and so well attended to by others, that in more than half of the houses where we called they had heard already of the murder. In the others, as well as I could make out (standing back at a distance and hearing a strange tongue), the news was received with more of consternation than surprise.
有时我们走，有时跑；随着天色渐近，步行的次数越来越少，跑步的次数越来越多。虽然从表面上看，那个国家似乎是一片沙漠，但那里有人们的小屋和房屋，我们一定经过了二十多个，它们隐藏在山上安静的地方。当我们来到其中一处时，艾伦会把我留在路上，自己去敲打房子的一侧，在窗边说话一会儿，唤醒一些熟睡的人。这是为了传递消息；在那个国家，这是一项重大责任，艾伦甚至在逃命时也必须停下来履行它。受到其他人的关注，我们所拜访的一半以上的房子里，他们都已经听说了这起谋杀案。据我所知（站在远处，听到陌生的语言），其他人收到这个消息时更多的是惊愕而不是惊讶。

For all our hurry, day began to come in while we were still far from any shelter. It found us in a prodigious valley, strewn with rocks and where ran a foaming river. Wild mountains stood around it; there grew there neither grass nor trees; and I have sometimes thought since then, that it may have been the valley called Glencoe, where the massacre was in the time of King William. But for the details of our itinerary, I am all to seek; our way lying now by short cuts, now by great detours; our pace being so hurried, our time of journeying usually by night; and the names of such places as I asked and heard being in the Gaelic tongue and the more easily forgotten.
尽管我们很匆忙，但当我们距离任何避难所还很远时，天就开始了。我们发现我们来到了一个巨大的山谷，山谷里布满了岩石，那里流淌着一条泛着泡沫的河流。周围矗立着狂野的群山；那里既没有草，也没有树；从那时起，我有时会想，这可能就是那个叫格伦科的山谷，威廉国王时代的大屠杀就是在那里发生的。但对于我们的行程细节，我都去寻求；我们的路时而走捷径，时而绕大弯路；我们的步伐如此匆忙，我们的旅途时间通常是在夜间；我询问和听到的这些地方的名字都是盖尔语的，更容易忘记。

The first peep of morning, then, showed us this horrible place, and I could see Alan knit his brow.
于是，清晨的第一缕阳光向我们展示了这个可怕的地方，我可以看到艾伦皱起了眉头。

‘This is no fit place for you and me,’ he said. ‘This is a place they’re bound to watch.’
“这里不适合你和我，”他说。 “这是他们必须关注的地方。”

And with that he ran harder than ever down to the water-side, in a part where the river was split in two among three rocks. It went through with a horrid thundering that made my belly quake; and there hung over the lynn a little mist of spray. Alan looked neither to the right nor to the left, but jumped clean upon the middle rock and fell there on his hands and knees to check himself, for that rock was small and he might have pitched over on the far side. I had scarce time to measure the distance or to understand the peril before I had followed him, and he had caught and stopped me.
说完，他比以往任何时候都更加努力地跑到水边，在河水被三块岩石分成两半的地方。伴随着可怕的雷鸣声，我的肚子在颤抖。林恩上空笼罩着一层薄雾。艾伦既没有向右看，也没有向左看，而是直接跳到中间的岩石上，然后用手和膝盖着地摔倒，以阻止自己，因为那块岩石很小，他可能会在远处翻倒。我还没来得及测量距离或了解危险就跟上了他，他就抓住并阻止了我。

So there we stood, side by side upon a small rock slippery with spray, a far broader leap in front of us, and the river dinning upon all sides. When I saw where I was, there came on me a deadly sickness of fear, and I put my hand over my eyes. Alan took me and shook me; I saw he was speaking, but the roaring of the falls and the trouble of my mind prevented me from hearing; only I saw his face was red with anger, and that he stamped upon the rock. The same look showed me the water raging by, and the mist hanging in the air: and with that I covered my eyes again and shuddered.
就这样，我们并肩站在一块小岩石上，水花打滑，前面有一个更宽阔的跳跃，河水在四面八方流淌。当我看到自己所处的位置时，一种致命的恐惧向我袭来，我用手捂住了眼睛。艾伦拉着我摇晃我；我看到他在说话，但瀑布的轰鸣声和我内心的烦恼使我听不见。我只看到他气得满脸通红，跺脚在岩石上。同样的眼神让我看到了汹涌的水流和空气中悬浮的雾气：我再次捂住眼睛，浑身发抖。

The next minute Alan had set the brandy bottle to my lips, and forced me to drink about a gill, which sent the blood into my head again. Then, putting his hands to his mouth, and his mouth to my ear, he shouted, ‘Hang or drown!’ and turning his back upon me, leaped over the farther branch of the stream, and landed safe.
下一分钟，艾伦把白兰地瓶放在我嘴边，强迫我喝了一大口，这让我的血液再次流进了脑袋。然后，他把手放在嘴边，嘴凑到我的耳边，大喊：“要么绞死，要么淹死！”然后他转过身背对着我，跳过了溪流的另一条支流，安全着陆。

I was now alone upon the rock, which gave me the more room; the brandy was singing in my ears; I had this good example fresh before me, and just wit enough to see that if I did not leap at once, I should never leap at all. I bent low on my knees and flung myself forth, with that kind of anger of despair that has sometimes stood me in stead of courage. Sure enough, it was but my hands that reached the full length; these slipped, caught again, slipped again; and I was sliddering back into the lynn, when Alan seized me, first by the hair, then by the collar, and with a great strain dragged me into safety.
现在我独自一人在岩石上，这给了我更多的空间。白兰地在我耳边歌唱；这个好例子就在我眼前，我足够机智地看到，如果我不立即跳跃，我就永远不会跳跃。我弯下膝盖，猛地向前扑去，那种绝望的愤怒有时代替了我的勇气。果然，只有我的手才达到了完整的长度；这些东西滑落了，又被抓住了，又滑落了；当我滑回林恩时，艾伦抓住了我，先是抓住我的头发，然后抓住我的衣领，用很大的力气把我拖到安全的地方。

Never a word he said, but set off running again for his life, and I must stagger to my feet and run after him. I had been weary before, but now I was sick and bruised, and partly drunken with the brandy; I kept stumbling as I ran, I had a stitch that came near to overmaster me; and when at last Alan paused under a great rock that stood there among a number of others, it was none too soon for David Balfour.
他一句话也没说，只是再次开始逃命，而我必须踉踉跄跄地站起来，追赶他。以前我很疲倦，但现在我浑身恶心，遍体鳞伤，白兰地喝得有些醉了。我一边跑一边跌跌撞撞，几乎要被一针压倒了。当艾伦最后在一块大石头下停下来时，这块石头和其他许多石头一起矗立在那里，这对大卫·贝尔福来说还不算太早。

A great rock I have said; but by rights it was two rocks leaning together at the top, both some twenty feet high, and at the first sight inaccessible. Even Alan (though you may say he had as good as four hands) failed twice in an attempt to climb them; and it was only at the third trial, and then by standing on my shoulders and leaping up with such force as I thought must have broken my collar-bone, that he secured a lodgment. Once there, he let down his leathern girdle; and with the aid of that and a pair of shallow footholds in the rock, I scrambled up beside him.
我说过一块大石头；但按理说，它是两块岩石靠在顶部，两块岩石都有二十英尺高，乍一看难以接近。就连艾伦（尽管你可能会说他有四只手）也曾两次试图攀爬它们，但都失败了。直到第三次考验时，他站在我的肩膀上，以我认为一定会折断我锁骨的力量跳了起来，才获得了住处。一到那里，他就放下了皮带。借助它和岩石上的两个浅浅的立足点，我爬到了他身边。

Then I saw why we had come there; for the two rocks, being both somewhat hollow on the top and sloping one to the other, made a kind of dish or saucer, where as many as three or four men might have lain hidden.
然后我明白了我们为什么来这里；因为这两块岩石的顶部都有些空心，而且彼此倾斜，形成一种盘子或碟子，里面可能藏着三四个人。

All this while Alan had not said a word, and had run and climbed with such a savage, silent frenzy of hurry, that I knew that he was in mortal fear of some miscarriage. Even now we were on the rock he said nothing, nor so much as relaxed the frowning look upon his face; but clapped flat down, and keeping only one eye above the edge of our place of shelter scouted all round the compass. The dawn had come quite, clear; we could see the stony sides of the valley, and its bottom, which was bestrewed with rocks, and the river, which went from one side to another, and made white falls; but nowhere the smoke of a house, nor any living creature but some eagles screaming round a cliff.
一直以来，艾伦都没有说一句话，而是以一种野蛮、沉默、匆忙的速度跑上爬下，我知道他非常害怕会流产。即使现在我们在岩石上，他也没有说什么，脸上皱着眉头的表情也没有放松。但还是平躺着拍手，只用一只眼睛在我们避难所的边缘上方观察罗盘周围。黎明已经非常明朗了。我们可以看到山谷的石壁和布满岩石的底部，还有河流，从一侧流向另一侧，形成白色的瀑布。但到处都没有房子的烟雾，也没有任何生物，只有一些鹰在悬崖上尖叫。

Then at last Alan smiled.
艾伦终于笑了。

‘Ay’ said he, ‘now we have a chance;’ and then looking at me with some amusement. ‘Ye’re no very gleg[25] at the jumping,’ said he.
“是的，”他说，“现在我们有机会了。”然后用一种有趣的眼神看着我。 “你们跳跃的技术不太好[25]，”他说。

[25]Brisk.
[25]轻快。

At this I suppose I coloured with mortification, for he added at once, ‘Hoots! small blame to ye! To be feared of a thing and yet to do it, is what makes the prettiest kind of a man. And then there was water there, and water’s a thing that dauntons even me. No, no,’ said Alan, ‘it’s no you that’s to blame, it’s me.’
说到这里，我想我脸色羞愧，因为他立刻补充道：“嘘！”小怪呀！害怕一件事却又去做，这才是最美丽的男人。然后那里有水，水是一种连我都感到畏惧的东西。不，不，”艾伦说，“这不是你的错，而是我。”

I asked him why.
我问他为什么。

‘Why,’ said he, ‘I have proved myself a gomeral this night. For first of all I take a wrong road, and that in my own country of Appin; so that the day has caught us where we should never have been; and thanks to that, we lie here in some danger and mair discomfort. And next (which is the worst of the two, for a man that has been so much among the heather as myself) I have come wanting a water-bottle, and here we lie for a long summer’s day with naething but neat spirit. Ye may think that a small matter; but before it comes night, David, ye’ll give me news of it.’
“哎呀，”他说，“今晚我已经证明了自己是一名出色的球员。”首先，我走错了路，而且是在我自己的国家阿平；以至于这一天把我们带到了我们不应该去的地方；正因为如此，我们躺在这里，感到有些危险和不适。接下来（这是两者中最糟糕的一个，对于像我这样经常在石南花丛中生活的人来说）我来了，想要一瓶水，我们躺在这里度过了一个漫长的夏日，心情平淡但精神饱满。你们也许认为这是一件小事；但在晚上到来之前，大卫，你会告诉我这件事的。”

I was anxious to redeem my character, and offered, if he would pour out the brandy, to run down and fill the bottle at the river.
我急于挽回自己的人格，并提出，如果他愿意倒白兰地的话，我就跑到河边去把瓶子装满。

‘I wouldnae waste the good spirit either,’ says he. ‘It’s been a good friend to you this night; or in my poor opinion, ye would still be cocking on yon stone. And what’s mair,’ says he, ‘ye may have observed (you that’s a man of so much penetration) that Alan Breck Stewart was perhaps walking quicker than his ordinar’.’
“我也不会浪费好精神，”他说。 “今晚它对你来说是个好朋友；或者在我看来，你们仍然会在石头上待着。重要的是，”他说，“你可能已经观察到（你是一个很有洞察力的人）艾伦·布雷克·斯图尔特可能比他的普通人走得更快。”

‘You!’ I cried, ‘you were running fit to burst.’
“你！”我喊道，“你快要爆炸了。”

‘Was I so?’ said he. ‘Well, then, ye may depend upon it, there was nae time to be lost. And now here is enough said; gang you to your sleep, lad, and I’ll watch.’
“我也是这样吗？”他说。 “好吧，那么，你们可以相信，没有时间可以浪费了。”现在已经说得够多了；伙计，带你去睡觉，我会看着的。

Accordingly, I lay down to sleep; a little peaty earth had drifted in between the top of the two rocks, and some bracken grew there, to be a bed to me; the last thing I heard was still the crying of the eagles.
于是我就躺下睡觉了；两块岩石的顶部之间飘浮着一小块泥炭土，那里长出了一些蕨类植物，给我当了床。我最后听到的仍然是鹰的叫声。

I dare say it would be nine in the morning when I was roughly awakened, and found Alan’s hand pressed upon my mouth.
我敢说，当我被粗暴地叫醒时，已经是早上九点了，发现艾伦的手按在我的嘴上。

‘Wheesht!’ he whispered. ‘Ye were snoring.’
“哎呀！”他低声说道。 “你们在打鼾。”

‘Well,’ said I, surprised at his anxious and dark face, ‘and why not?’
“好吧，”我对他焦急而阴沉的脸感到惊讶，“为什么不呢？”

He peered over the edge of the rock, and signed to me to do the like.
他从岩石边缘往外看，示意我也这么做。

It was now high day, cloudless, and very hot. The valley was as clear as in a picture. About half a mile up the water was a camp of red-coats; a big fire blazed in their midst, at which some were cooking; and near by, on the top of a rock about as high as ours, there stood a sentry, with the sun sparkling on his arms. All the way down along the river-side were posted other sentries; here near together, there widelier scattered; some planted like the first, on places of command, some on the ground level and marching and counter-marching, so as to meet half-way. Higher up the glen, where the ground was more open, the chain of posts was continued by horse-soldiers, whom we could see in the distance riding to and fro. Lower down, the infantry continued; but as the stream was suddenly swelled by the confluence of a considerable burn, they were more widely set, and only watched the fords and stepping-stones.
现在天气晴朗，万里无云，而且非常炎热。山谷清晰如画。距水面约半英里处有一个红大衣营地。他们中间生起了一堆大火，有些人正在做饭。附近，在一块和我们一样高的岩石顶上，站着一个哨兵，阳光照在他的手臂上闪闪发光。沿着河边一直站着其他哨兵。这里靠近，那里分散；有些像第一个一样安置在指挥地点，有些则安置在地面上，行军和反行军，以便在中途会合。峡谷更高处，地面更加开阔，一连串的柱子由骑马士兵继续延伸，我们可以在远处看到他们骑马来回。步兵继续往下走。但由于一场严重的烧伤汇合，溪流突然水涨船高，他们的位置更宽，只注视着浅滩和踏脚石。

I took but one look at them, and ducked again into my place. It was strange indeed to see this valley, which had lain so solitary in the hour of dawn, bristling with arms and dotted with the red coats and breeches.
我只看了他们一眼，就又躲到了自己的位置上。看到这个山谷确实很奇怪，在黎明时分，它是如此孤独，手臂竖立，点缀着红色外套和马裤。

‘Ye see,’ said Alan, ‘this was what I was afraid of, Davie: that they would watch the burn-side. They began to come in about two hours ago, and, man! but ye’re a grand hand at the sleeping! We’re in a narrow place. If they get up the sides of the hill, they could easy spy us with a glass; but if they’ll only keep in the foot of the valley, we’ll do yet. The posts are thinner down the water; and, come night, we’ll try our hand at getting by them.’
“是的，”艾伦说，“这就是我所害怕的，戴维：他们会看着燃烧的一面。他们大约两个小时前就开始进来了，天啊！但你在睡觉方面可是高手！我们在一个狭窄的地方。如果他们爬上山坡，就可以很容易地用玻璃窥视我们；但如果他们只留在山谷脚下，我们还是会这么做。水下的柱子越来越细；到了晚上，我们会尽力克服它们。

‘And what are we to do till night?’ I asked.
“那么到晚上我们要做什么呢？”我问道。

‘Lie here,’ says he, ‘and birstle.’
“躺在这儿，”他说，“发毛。”

That one good Scotch word, ‘birstle,’ was indeed the most of the story of the day that we had now to pass. You are to remember that we lay on the bare top of a rock, like scones upon a girdle; the sun beat upon us cruelly; the rock grew so heated, a man could scarce endure the touch of it; and the little patch of earth and fern, which kept cooler, was only large enough for one at a time. We took turn about to lie on the naked rock, which was indeed like the position of that saint that was martyred on a gridiron; and it ran in my mind how strange it was, that in the same climate and at only a few days’ distance, I should have suffered so cruelly, first from cold upon my island and now from heat upon this rock.
苏格兰语中的一个好词“birstle”确实是我们今天要讲的故事的大部分内容。你要记住，我们躺在一块光秃秃的岩石顶上，就像腰带上的烤饼一样；太阳残酷地照在我们身上；岩石变得非常热，人几乎无法忍受触摸它。那一小块泥土和蕨类植物可以保持凉爽，但每次只够一个人居住。我们轮流躺在裸露的岩石上，这确实像那位在烤架上殉难的圣徒的位置；我心里想到，这是多么奇怪，在同样的气候下，距离只有几天的路程，我会遭受如此残酷的痛苦，首先是我的岛上的寒冷，现在是这块岩石上的炎热。

All the while we had no water, only raw brandy for a drink, which was worse than nothing; but we kept the bottle as cool as we could, burying it in the earth, and got some relief by bathing our breasts and temples.
一直以来，我们都没有水，只能喝生白兰地，这比什么都没有更糟糕。但我们尽可能让瓶子保持凉爽，把它埋在土里，并通过洗澡我们的胸部和太阳穴来缓解一些压力。

The soldiers kept stirring all day in the bottom of the valley, now changing guard, now in patrolling parties hunting among the rocks. These lay round in so great a number, that to look for men among them was like looking for a needle in a bottle of hay; and being so hopeless a task, it was gone about with the less care. Yet we could see the soldiers pike their bayonets among the heather, which sent a cold thrill into my vitals; and they would sometimes hang about our rock, so that we scarce dared to breathe.
士兵们整天在谷底忙碌，时而换岗，时而巡逻，在岩石间狩猎。这些人的数量如此之多，以至于在他们中间寻找人类就像在干草瓶中寻找针一样。由于这是一项毫无希望的任务，所以就毫不在意地完成了。但我们仍能看到士兵们在石南丛中拔出刺刀，这让我的五脏六腑感到一阵冰冷。它们有时会在我们的岩石上徘徊，让我们几乎不敢呼吸。

It was in this way that I first heard the right English speech; one fellow as he went by actually clapping his hand upon the sunny face of the rock on which we lay, and plucking it off again with an oath. ‘I tell you it’s ‘ot,’ says he; and I was amazed at the clipping tones and the odd sing-song in which he spoke, and no less at that strange trick of dropping out the letter ‘h.’ To be sure, I had heard Ransome; but he had taken his ways from all sorts of people, and spoke so imperfectly at the best, that I set down the most of it to childishness. My surprise was all the greater to hear that manner of speaking in the mouth of a grown man; and indeed I have never grown used to it; nor yet altogether with the English grammar, as perhaps a very critical eye might here and there spy out even in these memoirs.
就这样，我第一次听到了正确的英语演讲；一个人经过时，实际上在我们躺着的岩石阳光明媚的表面上拍了拍手，并发誓又把它拔了下来。 “我告诉你，这是‘ot’，”他说。我对他说话的语气和奇怪的歌声感到惊讶，同样对漏掉字母“h”的奇怪技巧感到惊讶。可以肯定的是，我听过兰瑟姆的声音；但我没有听过兰瑟姆的声音。但他的做法借鉴了各种各样的人，而且说得也很不完美，所以我认为他的大部分做法都是幼稚的。听到一个成年人说出这样的话，我更加惊讶了。事实上，我从来没有习惯过它；也不完全符合英语语法，即使在这些回忆录中，也许挑剔的眼睛也会在这里或那里发现。

The tediousness and pain of these hours upon the rock grew only the greater as the day went on; the rock getting still the hotter and the sun fiercer. There were giddiness, and sickness, and sharp pangs like rheumatism, to be supported. I minded then, and have often minded since, on the lines in our Scotch psalm: —
随着时间一天天过去，在岩石上度过的这几个小时的乏味和痛苦只会变得更加强烈。岩石越来越热，阳光也越来越猛烈。头晕、恶心，还有像风湿病一样的剧痛，需要支撑。我当时就在意，并且从那以后经常在意我们苏格兰圣歌中的诗句：——

‘The moon by night thee shall not smite,
“你不会伤害夜晚的月亮，

Nor yet the sun by day;.’
白天还没有太阳；”

and indeed it was only by God’s blessing that we were neither of us sun-smitten.
事实上，正是上帝的保佑，我们才没有被阳光晒伤。

At last, about two, it was beyond men’s bearing, and there was now temptation to resist, as well as pain to thole. For the sun being now got a little into the west, there came a patch of shade on the east side of our rock, which was the side sheltered from the soldiers.
最后，大约两点，这超出了人们的承受能力，现在有抵制的诱惑，也有痛苦。由于太阳现在已经偏西了，我们岩石的东侧出现了一片阴影，这是士兵们躲避的一侧。

‘As well one death as another,’ said Alan, and slipped over the edge and dropped on the ground on the shadowy side.
“一个人死了，另一个人死了。”艾伦说着，从边缘滑了下去，落在阴暗一侧的地上。

I followed him at once, and instantly fell all my length, so weak was I and so giddy with that long exposure. Here, then, we lay for an hour or two, aching from head to foot, as weak as water, and lying quite naked to the eye of any soldier who should have strolled that way. None came, however, all passing by on the other side; so that our rock continued to be our shield even in this new position.
我立刻跟着他，立刻就摔倒了，我是如此的虚弱，长时间的暴露让我感到头晕。然后，我们就在这里躺了一两个小时，从头到脚疼痛，虚弱得像水一样，在任何应该走过那条路的士兵的眼里，我们都是赤身裸体地躺着。然而，没有人来，全都从另一边经过。因此，即使在这个新的位置上，我们的岩石仍然是我们的盾牌。

Presently we began again to get a little strength; and as the soldiers were now lying closer along the river-side, Alan proposed that we should try a start. I was by this time afraid of but one thing in the world; and that was to be set back upon the rock; anything else was welcome to me; so we got ourselves at once in marching order, and began to slip from rock to rock one after the other, now crawling flat on our bellies in the shade, now making a run for it, heart in mouth.
不久我们又开始有了一点力气。由于士兵们现在已经靠近河边了，艾伦提议我们应该尝试一下。此时我所害怕的只有一件事：并将其放回到岩石上；我欢迎任何其他事情；于是我们立即排好队形，开始一个接一个地从一块岩石滑到另一块岩石，一会儿在树荫下趴着爬行，一会儿心提到了嗓子眼，拼命奔跑。

The soldiers, having searched this side of the valley after a fashion, and being perhaps somewhat sleepy with the sultriness of the afternoon, had now laid by much of their vigilance, and stood dozing at their posts or only kept a look-out along the banks of the river; so that in this way, keeping down the valley and at the same time towards the mountains, we drew steadily away from their neighbourhood. But the business was the most wearing I had ever taken part in. A man had need of a hundred eyes in every part of him, to keep concealed in that uneven country and within cry of so many and scattered sentries. When we must pass an open place, quickness was not all, but a swift judgment not only of the lie of the whole country, but of the solidity of every stone on which we must set foot; for the afternoon was now fallen so breathless that the rolling of a pebble sounded abroad like a pistol shot, and would start the echo calling among the hills and cliffs.
士兵们在山谷这边搜索了一下，或许因为下午的闷热而有些困倦，现在已经放下了大部分警惕性，站在岗位上打瞌睡，或者只是沿着河道瞭望。河岸；就这样，我们一边沿着山谷走，一边向山上走，逐渐远离了他们的邻居。但这是我参与过的最累人的事情。一个人需要在他的每个部位都有一百只眼睛，才能隐藏在这片崎岖不平的土地上，并在众多分散的哨兵的呼喊声中。当我们必须经过一片空地时，速度并不是全部，而是不仅要迅速判断整个国家的谎言，还要判断我们必须踏上的每块石头的坚固程度；下午的时间已经如此令人窒息，以至于卵石滚动的声音听起来像手枪射击，并且会在山丘和悬崖之间引起回声。

By sundown we had made some distance, even by our slow rate of progress, though to be sure the sentry on the rock was still plainly in our view. But now we came on something that put all fears out of season; and that was a deep rushing burn, that tore down, in that part, to join the glen river. At the sight of this we cast ourselves on the ground and plunged head and shoulders in the water; and I cannot tell which was the more pleasant, the great shock as the cool stream went over us, or the greed with which we drank of it.
到了日落时，我们已经取得了一段距离，尽管我们的进展速度很慢，但可以肯定的是，岩石上的哨兵仍然在我们的视野中。但现在我们遇到了一些事情，让所有的恐惧都不再合时宜。那是一道深深的急流烧伤，在那部分被撕裂，汇入格伦河。看到这一幕，我们扑倒在地，头和肩膀都扎进了水里。我分不清哪一个更令人愉快，是清凉的溪水冲过我们时的巨大震撼，还是我们喝着溪水时的贪婪。

We lay there (for the banks hid us), drank again and again, bathed our chests, let our wrists trail in the running water till they ached with the chill; and at last, being wonderfullv renewed, we got out the meal-bag and made drammach in the iron pan. This, though it is but cold water mingled with oatmeal, yet makes a good enough dish for a hungry man; and where there are no means of making fire, or (as in our case) good reason for not making one, it is the chief stand-by of those who have taken to the heather.
我们躺在那里（因为河岸把我们藏起来了），一次又一次地喝水，沐浴我们的胸膛，让我们的手腕在流水里拖曳，直到它们因寒冷而疼痛；最后，我们焕然一新，拿出饭袋，在铁锅里做了德拉马赫。这虽然只是凉水和燕麦片的混合，但对于饥饿的人来说却是一道足够好的菜肴；如果没有生火的方法，或者（就像我们的例子）有充分的理由不生火，那么这就是那些喜欢石南花的人的主要备用措施。

As soon as the shadow of the night had fallen, we set forth again, at first with the same caution, but presently with more boldness, standing our full height and stepping out at a good pace of walking. The way was very intricate, lying up the steep sides of mountains and along the brows of cliffs; clouds had come in with the sunset, and the night was dark and cool; so that I walked without much fatigue, but in continual fear of falling and rolling down the mountains, and with no guess at our direction.
夜幕一降临，我们又出发了，一开始还是同样的小心谨慎，但很快就更加大胆了，我们站直了身子，迈出了愉快的步伐。道路非常复杂，沿着陡峭的山坡和悬崖的边缘。云彩随着日落而来，夜晚漆黑而凉爽。因此，我走路时并没有感到太多疲劳，但一直担心从山上摔下来、滚下来，也不知道我们的方向。

The moon rose at last and found us still on the road; it was in its last quarter, and was long beset with clouds; but after awhile shone out and showed me many dark heads of mountains, and was reflected far underneath us on the narrow arm of a sea-loch.
月亮终于升起来了，发现我们还在路上。现在已经是最后一刻了，长期以来一直被乌云笼罩。但过了一会儿，光亮了，让我看到了许多黑暗的山头，并反射在我们下方远处狭窄的海湾上。

At this sight we both paused: I struck with wonder to find myself so high and walking (as it seemed to me) upon clouds; Alan to make sure of his direction.
看到这一幕，我们都停了下来：我惊奇地发现自己如此之高，行走在云端（在我看来）；艾伦确定自己的方向。

Seemingly he was well pleased, and he must certainly have judged us out of ear-shot of all our enemies; for throughout the rest of our night-march he beguiled the way with whistling of many tunes, warlike, merry, plaintive; reel tunes that made the foot go faster; tunes of my own south country that made me fain to be home from my adventures; and all these, on the great, dark, desert mountains, making company upon the way.
看来他很高兴，而且他肯定是在我们所有敌人听不到的地方对我们做出了判断。因为在我们剩下的夜间行军中，他用许多曲子的口哨迷惑了我们的道路，这些曲子有好战的、快乐的、哀伤的。使脚步加快的卷轴曲调；我的南方国家的曲调让我渴望从冒险中回家；所有这些人，都在巨大、黑暗、沙漠的山脉上，在路上结伴而行。

CHAPTER XXI
第二十一章


THE FLIGHT IN THE HEATHER: THE HEUGH OF CORRYNAKIEGH
石南花丛中的飞行：科里纳基的休憩

Early as day comes in the beginning of July, it was still dark when we reached our destination, a cleft in the head of a great mountain, with a water running through the midst, and upon the one hand a shallow cave in a rock. Birches grew there in a thin, pretty wood, which a little farther on was changed into a wood of pines. The burn was full of trout; the wood of cushat-doves; on the open side of the mountain beyond, whaups would be always whistling, and cuckoos were plentiful. From the mouth of the cleft we looked down upon a part of Mamore, and on the sea-loch that divides that country from Appin; and this from so great a height as made it my continual wonder and pleasure to sit and behold them.
七月初，天刚蒙蒙亮，我们到达目的地时，天还黑着，一座大山的山顶有一条裂缝，中间有水流过，一侧是岩石中的一个浅洞。那里有一片稀疏而美丽的树林，里面长着白桦树，再往前走一点，就变成了松树林。烧伤处全是鳟鱼；斑鸠木；远处山的开阔一侧，总是有呼啸声，布谷鸟很多。从裂口处，我们俯视马莫雷的一部分，以及将该国与阿平分开的海湾。从如此高的高度坐下来观看它们，让我不断感到惊奇和高兴。

The name of the cleft was the Heugh of Corrynakiegh; and although from its height and being so near upon the sea, it was often beset with clouds, yet it was on the whole a pleasant place, and the five days we lived in it went happily.
这条裂缝的名字是科里纳基格 (Corrynakiegh) 的休 (Heugh of Corrynakiegh)。虽然从它的高度和靠近大海的角度来看，它经常被云彩包围，但总的来说，它是一个令人愉快的地方，我们在那里住了五天，过得很愉快。

We slept in the cave, making our bed of heather bushes which we cut for that purpose, and covering ourselves with Alan’s great-coat. There was a low concealed place, in a turning of the glen, where we were so bold as to make fire: so that we could warm ourselves when the clouds set in, and cook hot porridge, and grill the little trouts that we caught with our hands under the stones and overhanging banks of the burn. This was indeed our chief pleasure and business; and not only to save our meal against worse times, but with a rivalry that much amused us, we spent a great part of our days at the water-side, stripped to the waist and groping about or (as they say) guddling for these fish. The largest we got might have been a quarter of a pound; but they were of good flesh and flavour, and when broiled upon the coals, lacked only a little salt to be delicious.
我们睡在山洞里，用为此目的砍伐的石南花灌木铺成的床，并用艾伦的大衣盖住自己。山谷拐弯处有一处低矮隐蔽的地方，我们就大胆地生了火，这样云来时我们就可以取暖，可以煮热粥，也可以烤我们钓到的小鳟鱼。我们的手埋在石头和悬垂的烧伤河岸下。这确实是我们的主要乐趣和工作。不仅是为了节省我们的饭菜以应对更糟糕的情况，而且为了进行一场让我们感到非常有趣的竞争，我们大部分时间都在水边度过，赤裸上身，摸索或（正如他们所说）贪婪地寻找这些东西。鱼。我们得到的最大的可能是四分之一磅；但它们的肉质和味道都很好，在炭火上烤时，只需要一点点盐就很美味。

In any by-time Alan must teach me to use my sword, for my ignorance had much distressed him; and I think besides, as I had sometimes the upper-hand of him in the fishing, he was not sorry to turn to an exercise where he had so much the upper-hand of me. He made it somewhat more of a pain than need have been, for he stormed at me all through the lessons in a very violent manner of scolding, and would push me so close that I made sure he must run me through the body. I was often tempted to turn tail, but held my ground for all that, and got some profit of my lessons; if it was but to stand on guard with an assured countenance, which is often all that is required. So, though I could never in the least please my master, I was not altogether displeased with myself.
无论什么时候，艾伦都必须教我如何使用我的剑，因为我的无知让他非常痛苦。我想此外，正如我有时在钓鱼方面比他占上风一样，他也不会后悔转向一项他比我占了那么多优势的练习。他让这件事变得比需要的更痛苦，因为他在整个课程中以非常暴力的方式向我猛烈地责骂，并且将我推得如此之近，以至于我确信他必须穿过我的身体。我常常想掉头而去，但还是坚持了下来，并从我的课程中得到了一些收获。如果只是以一种放心的表情来保持警惕，这往往就是所需要的。所以，虽然我永远无法取悦我的主人，但我并不完全对自己不满意。

In the meanwhile, you are not to suppose that we neglected our chief business, which was to get away.
与此同时，你不要以为我们忽视了我们的首要任务，那就是逃跑。

‘It will be many a long day,’ Alan said to me on our first morning, ‘before the red-coats think upon seeking Corrynakiegh; so now we must get word sent to James, and he must find the siller for us.’
“这将是漫长的一天，”我们第一天早上艾伦对我说，“在红大衣们考虑寻找科里纳基之前；所以现在我们必须把消息传给詹姆斯，他必须为我们找到凶手。”

‘And how shall we send that word?’ says I. ‘We are here in a desert place, which yet we dare not leave; and unless ye get the fowls of the air to be your messengers, I see not what we shall be able to do.’
“我们该如何发送这个消息呢？”我说道，“我们现在身处沙漠，却又不敢离开；除非你们让空中的飞鸟成为你们的使者，否则我看不出我们能做什么。

‘Ay?’ said Alan. ‘Ye’re a man of small contrivance, David.’
“嗯？”艾伦说。 “大卫，你是个小聪明的人。”

Thereupon he fell in a muse, looking in the embers of the fire; and presently, getting a piece of wood, he fashioned it in a cross, the four ends of which he blackened on the coals. Then he looked at me a little shyly.
于是，他凝视着余烬，陷入了沉思。不久，他找了一块木头，把它做成了一个十字架，把十字架的四个末端放在炭火上熏黑了。然后他有点害羞地看着我。

‘Could ye lend me my button?’ says he. ‘It seems a strange thing to ask a gift again, but I own I am laith to cut another.’
“你能借我的纽扣吗？”他说。 “再次索要礼物似乎很奇怪，但我承认我愿意再切一份礼物。”

I gave him the button; whereupon he strung it on a strip of his great-coat which he had used to bind the cross; and tying in a little sprig of birch and another of fir, he looked upon his work with satisfaction.
我把按钮给了他；于是他把它串在他用来绑十字架的大衣条上。他绑上一小枝桦树和另一枝冷杉，满意地看着自己的作品。

‘Now,’ said he, ‘there is a little clachan’ (what is called a hamlet in the English) ‘not very far from Corrynakiegh, and it has the name of Koalisnacoan. There there are living many friends of mine whom I could trust with my life, and some that I am no just so sure of. Ye see, David, there will be money set upon our heads; James himsel’ is to set money on them; and as for the Campbells, they would never spare siller where there was a Stewart to be hurt. If it was otherwise, I would go down to Koalisnacoan whatever, and trust my life into these people’s hands as lightly as I would trust another with my glove.’
“现在，”他说，“离科里纳基格不远，有一个小克拉坎（英语中称为“小村庄”），它的名字叫科阿里斯纳科安。那里有很多我可以用生命信任的朋友，但也有一些我不太确定。你看，大卫，我们的头上将会有钱；詹姆斯本人要给他们花钱；至于坎贝尔一家，一旦斯图尔特受到伤害，他们绝不会放过西勒。如果不是这样，我会去 Koalisnacoan 无论如何，把我的生命托付给这些人，就像我信任别人一样。

‘But being so?’ said I.
“但事实就是这样吗？”我说。

‘Being so,’ said he, ‘I would as lief they didnae see me. There’s bad folk everywhere, and what’s far worse, weak ones. So when it comes dark again, I will steal down into that clachan, and set this that I have been making in the window of a good friend of mine, John Breck Maccoll, a bouman[26] of Appin’s.’
“既然如此，”他说，“我宁愿他们没有看到我。”到处都有坏人，更糟糕的是，还有弱者。因此，当天再次黑下来时，我会偷偷溜进那个克拉坎，把我一直在做的这个放在我的好朋友约翰·布雷克·麦克科尔（John Breck Maccoll）的窗户上，约翰·布雷克·麦克科尔是阿平的一名布曼[26]。

[26]A bouman is a tenant who takes stock from the landlord and shares with him the increase.
[26] bouman 是从房东那里获取库存并与他分享增量的租户。

‘With all my heart,’ says I; ‘and if he finds it, what is he to think?’
“我全心全意，”我说； “如果他找到了，他会怎么想？”

‘Well,’ says Alan, ‘I wish he was a man of more penetration, for by my troth I am afraid he will make little enough of it! But this is what I have in my mind. This cross is something in the nature of the crosstarrie, or fiery cross, which is the signal of gathering in our clans; yet he will know well enough the clan is not to rise, for there it is standing in his window, and no word with it. So he will say to himsel’, THE CLAN IS NOT TO RISE, BUT THERE IS SOMETHING. Then he will see my button, and that was Duncan Stewart’s. And then he will say to himsel’, THE SON OF DUNCAN IS IN THE HEATHER, AND HAS NEED OF ME.’
“好吧，”艾伦说，“我希望他是一个更有洞察力的人，因为我敢说，我担心他赚得还不够！”但这就是我心里的想法。这个十字架具有 Crosstarrie 或火十字的性质，它是我们氏族聚集的信号；然而他很清楚，这个家族不会起身，因为它就站在他的窗户里，没有任何消息。所以他会对自己说，氏族不会崛起，但有一些东西。然后他会看到我的纽扣，那是邓肯·斯图尔特的。然后他会对自己说，‘邓肯的儿子在石南丛中，需要我。’

‘Well,’ said I, ‘it may be. But even supposing so, there is a good deal of heather between here and the Forth.’
“嗯，”我说，“可能是这样。”但即便如此，这里和福斯之间也有很多石南花。”

‘And that is a very true word,’ says Alan. ‘But then John Breck will see the sprig of birch and the sprig of pine; and he will say to himsel’ (if he is a man of any penetration at all, which I misdoubt), ALAN WILL BE LYING IN A WOOD WHICH IS BOTH OF PINES AND BIRCHES. Then he will think to himsel’, THAT IS NOT SO VERY RIFE HEREABOUT; and then he will come and give us a look up in Corrynakiegh. And if he does not, David, the devil may fly away with him, for what I care; for he will no be worth the salt to his porridge.’
“这是一个非常真实的词，”艾伦说。 “但是约翰·布雷克将会看到桦树小枝和松树小枝；他会对自己说（如果他是一个有洞察力的人，我对此表示怀疑），艾伦将躺在一片松树和桦树丛中。然后他会想，这里的情况并不那么普遍；然后他会来科里纳基格给我们看一看。大卫，如果他不这样做，魔鬼就会和他一起飞走，不管我关心什么；因为他不值得在粥里加盐。

‘Eh, man,’ said I, drolling with him a little, ‘you’re very ingenious! But would it not be simpler for you to write him a few words in black and white?’
“呃，伙计，”我和他开玩笑地说，“你真是太聪明了！”但你白纸黑字给他写几个字不是更简单吗？

‘And that is an excellent observe, Mr. Balfour of Shaws,’ says Alan, drolling with me; ‘and it would certainly be much simpler for me to write to him, but it would be a sore job for John Breck to read it. He would have to go to the school for two-three years; and it’s possible we might be wearied waiting on him.’
“这是一个很好的观察，Shaws 的贝尔福先生，”艾伦和我开玩笑地说。 “对我来说，写信给他肯定会简单得多，但对约翰·布雷克来说，读这封信却是一项痛苦的工作。他必须在学校上学两三年；我们可能会厌倦等他。

So that night Alan carried down his fiery cross and set it in the bouman’s window. He was troubled when he came back; for the dogs had barked and the folk run out from their houses; and he thought he had heard a clatter of arms and seen a red-coat come to one of the doors. On all accounts we lay the next day in the borders of the wood and kept a close look-out, so that if it was John Breck that came we might be ready to guide him, and if it was the red-coats we should have time to get away.
于是那天晚上，艾伦放下了他的火十字架，把它放在了布曼的窗户上。当他回来时，他很烦恼；因为狗叫了，人们从房子里跑了出来。他觉得自己听到了一阵手臂的碰撞声，看到一件红大衣来到一扇门前。不管怎样，我们第二天就躺在树林的边界上，密切监视，这样，如果是约翰·布雷克来了，我们可能会准备好引导他，如果是红大衣，我们应该有是时候离开了。

About noon a man was to be spied, straggling up the open side of the mountain in the sun, and looking round him as he came, from under his hand. No sooner had Alan seen him than he whistled; the man turned and came a little towards us: then Alan would give another ‘peep!’ and the man would come still nearer; and so by the sound of whistling, he was guided to the spot where we lay.
中午时分，有人会被监视，他在阳光下缓慢地爬上山的开阔一侧，在他到来时从他的手下环顾四周。艾伦一看到他就吹起了口哨。那人转过身来，朝我们这边走近了一点：然后艾伦又发出一声“窥视！”，那人就离我们更近了。于是，在口哨声的引导下，他来到了我们躺着的地方。

He was a ragged, wild, bearded man, about forty, grossly disfigured with the small pox, and looked both dull and savage. Although his English was very bad and broken, yet Alan (according to his very handsome use, whenever I was by) would suffer him to speak no Gaelic. Perhaps the strange language made him appear more backward than he really was; but I thought he had little good-will to serve us, and what he had was the child of terror.
他是一个衣衫褴褛、狂野、留着胡须的男人，四十岁左右，因天花而严重毁容，看上去既迟钝又野蛮。尽管他的英语很糟糕而且很蹩脚，但艾伦（根据他非常漂亮的用法，每当我在旁边时）都会允许他不说盖尔语。或许陌生的语言让他看起来比实际情况更落后；也许是这样。但我认为他没有什么善意为我们服务，他所拥有的是恐怖之子。

Alan would have had him carry a message to James; but the bouman would hear of no message. ‘She was forget it,’ he said in his screaming voice; and would either have a letter or wash his hands of us.
艾伦会让他向詹姆斯传达一条信息；但他并没有这么做。但布曼不会听到任何消息。 “她忘了这件事了，”他用尖叫的声音说道。他要么给我们写封信，要么就对我们撒手不管。

I thought Alan would be gravelled at that, for we lacked the means of writing in that desert.
我以为艾伦会对此感到沮丧，因为我们在那片沙漠中缺乏写作手段。

But he was a man of more resources than I knew; searched the wood until he found the quill of a cushat-dove, which he shaped into a pen; made himself a kind of ink with gunpowder from his horn and water from the running stream; and tearing a corner from his French military commission (which he carried in his pocket, like a talisman to keep him from the gallows), he sat down and wrote as follows:
但他是一个比我想象的更有资源的人。他在树林里搜寻，直到找到了一只斑鸠的羽毛笔，他把它做成了一支笔。他用角中的火药和流淌的溪流中的水为自己制造了一种墨水。他撕下法国军事委员会的一角（他把它放在口袋里，就像一个使他免受绞刑架的护身符），他坐下来写下了以下内容：

‘DEAR KINSMAN, — Please send the money by the bearer to the place he kens of.
“亲爱的亲戚，请由持票人将钱送到他所知道的地方。

‘Your affectionate cousin,
‘你深情的表弟，

‘A. S.’
'A。 S.’

This he intrusted to the bouman, who promised to make what manner of speed he best could, and carried it off with him down the hill.
他把这个托付给了布曼，后者答应以最快的速度，并带着它下山。

He was three full days gone, but about five in the evening of the third, we heard a whistling in the wood, which Alan answered; and presently the bouman came up the water-side, looking for us, right and left. He seemed less sulky than before, and indeed he was no doubt well pleased to have got to the end of such a dangerous commission.
他已经走了整整三天，但第三天傍晚五点左右，我们听到树林里有一声口哨声，艾伦回应了。不久，布曼就来到了水边，左顾右盼地寻找我们。他看起来不像以前那么闷闷不乐，事实上，他无疑对完成如此危险的任务感到非常高兴。

He gave us the news of the country; that it was alive with red-coats; that arms were being found, and poor folk brought in trouble daily; and that James and some of his servants were already clapped in prison at Fort William, under strong suspicion of complicity. It seemed it was noised on all sides that Alan Breck had fired the shot; and there was a bill issued for both him and me, with one hundred pounds reward.
他给我们带来了这个国家的新闻；它穿着红大衣，充满生机；武器被发现，穷人每天都遇到麻烦；詹姆斯和他的一些仆人已经因涉嫌同谋而被关进威廉堡的监狱。似乎四面八方都传来艾伦·布雷克开枪的声音；并为他和我开出了一张账单，奖励一百英镑。

This was all as bad as could be; and the little note the bouman had carried us from Mrs. Stewart was of a miserable sadness. In it she besought Alan not to let himself be captured, assuring him, if he fell in the hands of the troops, both he and James were no better than dead men. The money she had sent was all that she could beg or borrow, and she prayed heaven we could be doing with it. Lastly, she said, she enclosed us one of the bills in which we were described.
这实在是太糟糕了。保曼给我们带来了斯图尔特夫人写的小纸条，里面充满了悲惨的悲伤。她在信中恳求艾伦不要让自己被俘虏，并向他保证，如果他落入军队手中，他和詹姆斯都和死人一样。她寄来的钱是她能乞讨或借到的全部钱，她祈祷上帝我们能用它来做点什么。最后，她说，她给我们附上了一份描述我们的账单。

This we looked upon with great curiosity and not a little fear, partly as a man may look in a mirror, partly as he might look into the barrel of an enemy’s gun to judge if it be truly aimed. Alan was advertised as ‘a small, pock-marked, active man of thirty-five or thereby, dressed in a feathered hat, a French side-coat of blue with silver buttons, and lace a great deal tarnished, a red waistcoat and breeches of black, shag;’ and I as ‘a tall strong lad of about eighteen, wearing an old blue coat, very ragged, an old Highland bonnet, a long homespun waistcoat, blue breeches; his legs bare, low-country shoes, wanting the toes; speaks like a Lowlander, and has no beard.’
我们带着极大的好奇和不少的恐惧来看待这一点，部分就像一个人照镜子，部分就像他看着敌人的枪管来判断它是否真正瞄准。艾伦被广告描述为“一个三十五岁左右的小个子、麻子、活跃的男人，戴着一顶羽毛帽子，穿着一件带有银色纽扣的蓝色法国大衣，蕾丝花边已经失去光泽，穿着红色背心和马裤”黑色，粗毛；”而我是“一个大约十八岁的高大强壮的小伙子，穿着一件旧的蓝色外套，非常破烂，一顶旧的高地帽子，一件长的土布背心，蓝色的马裤；他光着腿，穿着低地鞋，想要露出脚趾；说话像低地人，而且没有胡子。”

Alan was well enough pleased to see his finery so fully remembered and set down; only when he came to the word tarnish, he looked upon his lace like one a little mortified. As for myself, I thought I cut a miserable figure in the bill; and yet was well enough pleased too, for since I had changed these rags, the description had ceased to be a danger and become a source of safety.
艾伦很高兴看到他的华丽服饰被如此充分地记住并保存下来。只是当他说到“失去光泽”这个词时，他才觉得自己的蕾丝花边有点羞愧。至于我自己，我认为我在账单上的形象很糟糕。但我也很高兴，因为自从我换了这些破布后，这种描述就不再是危险，而是成为安全的源泉。

‘Alan,’ said I, ‘you should change your clothes.’
“艾伦，”我说，“你该换衣服了。”

‘Na, troth!’ said Alan, ‘I have nae others. A fine sight I would be, if I went back to France in a bonnet!’
“不，说实话！”艾伦说，“我没有其他的。”如果我戴着帽子回到法国，我会是一个美丽的景象！

This put a second reflection in my mind: that if I were to separate from Alan and his tell-tale clothes I should be safe against arrest, and might go openly about my business. Nor was this all; for suppose I was arrested when I was alone, there was little against me; but suppose I was taken in company with the reputed murderer, my case would begin to be grave. For generosity’s sake I dare not speak my mind upon this head; but I thought of it none the less.
这让我产生了第二个思考：如果我与艾伦和他泄露秘密的衣服分开，我应该不会被捕，并且可以公开做我的事。这还不是全部。因为假设我是在独自一人时被捕的，那么就没有人会反对我。但假设我和那个臭名昭著的凶手在一起，我的案子就会变得很严重。出于慷慨的缘故，我不敢在这个问题上说出我的想法。但我还是想到了这一点。

I thought of it all the more, too, when the bouman brought out a green purse with four guineas in gold, and the best part of another in small change. True, it was more than I had. But then Alan, with less than five guineas, had to get as far as France; I, with my less than two, not beyond Queensferry; so that taking things in their proportion, Alan’s society was not only a peril to my life, but a burden on my purse.
当保曼拿出一个绿色的钱包，里面有四个金币，还有另一个最好的部分是零钱时，我也更加想到了这一点。确实，这比我拥有的还要多。但后来艾伦带着不到五基尼，不得不远赴法国。我和我的不到两个人，没有超出昆斯费里；因此，从事情的比例来看，艾伦的交往不仅对我的生命构成危险，而且对我的钱包造成负担。

But there was no thought of the sort in the honest head of my companion. He believed he was serving, helping, and protecting me. And what could I do but hold my peace, and chafe, and take my chance of it?
但我的同伴诚实的头脑中并没有这样的想法。他相信他正在服务、帮助和保护我。除了保持沉默、愤怒并抓住机会之外，我还能做什么呢？

‘It’s little enough,’ said Alan, putting the purse in his pocket, ‘but it’ll do my business. And now, John Breck, if ye will hand me over my button, this gentleman and me will be for taking the road.’
“这还不够，”艾伦说着，把钱包放进了口袋里，“不过我的事已经够用了。”现在，约翰·布雷克，如果你愿意把我的纽扣交给我，这位先生和我就可以上路了。

But the bouman, after feeling about in a hairy purse that hung in front of him in the Highland manner (though he wore otherwise the Lowland habit, with sea-trousers), began to roll his eyes strangely, and at last said, ‘Her nainsel will loss it,’ meaning he thought he had lost it.
但是，这位保曼在以高地风格挂在他面前的一个毛茸茸的钱包里摸了摸之后（尽管他穿着低地习惯，穿着海裤），开始奇怪地翻白眼，最后说道：“她nainsel将会失去它，”意思是他认为他已经失去了它。

‘What!’ cried Alan, ‘you will lose my button, that was my father’s before me? Now I will tell you what is in my mind, John Breck: it is in my mind this is the worst day’s work that ever ye did since ye was born.’
“什么！”艾伦叫道，“你会失去我的纽扣，那是我父亲在我之前的吗？现在我会告诉你我的想法，约翰·布雷克：在我看来，这是自出生以来你们所做过的最糟糕的一天。

And as Alan spoke, he set his hands on his knees and looked at the bouman with a smiling mouth, and that dancing light in his eyes that meant mischief to his enemies.
艾伦说话的时候，双手放在膝盖上，嘴角含笑地看着布曼，眼中闪烁着舞动的光芒，对敌人来说意味着恶作剧。

Perhaps the bouman was honest enough; perhaps he had meant to cheat and then, finding himself alone with two of us in a desert place, cast back to honesty as being safer; at least, and all at once, he seemed to find that button and handed it to Alan.
或许这位负责人足够诚实；也许他本来是想欺骗，然后，当他发现自己和我们两个人单独在沙漠里时，他又回到诚实，因为这样更安全；至少，他似乎一下子就找到了那个按钮，并把它递给了艾伦。

‘Well, and it is a good thing for the honour of the Maccolls,’ said Alan, and then to me, ‘Here is my button back again, and I thank you for parting with it, which is of a piece with all your friendships to me.’ Then he took the warmest parting of the bouman. ‘For,’ says he, ‘ye have done very well by me, and set your neck at a venture, and I will always give you the name of a good man.’
“嗯，这对麦科尔家族的荣誉来说是一件好事，”艾伦说道，然后对我说，“我的纽扣又回来了，我感谢你把它分开，它与你所有的人都是一体的。” “对我来说是友谊。”然后他与布曼进行了最热烈的告别。 “因为，”他说，“你们对我做得很好，并且愿意冒险，我将永远给你们一个好人的称号。”

Lastly, the bouman took himself off by one way; and Alan I (getting our chattels together) struck into another to resume our flight.
最后，布曼从一条路逃走了。艾伦一世（整理我们的动产）撞上了另一架飞机，继续我们的飞行。

CHAPTER XXII
第二十二章


THE FLIGHT IN THE HEATHER: THE MOOR
石南花丛中的飞行：荒原

Some seven hours’ incessant, hard travelling brought us early in the morning to the end of a range of mountains. In front of us there lay a piece of low, broken, desert land, which we must now cross. The sun was not long up, and shone straight in our eyes; a little, thin mist went up from the face of the moorland like a smoke; so that (as Alan said) there might have been twenty squadron of dragoons there and we none the wiser.
经过大约七个小时不间断的艰苦旅行，我们一大早就到达了山脉的尽头。我们面前是一片低矮、破碎的沙漠土地，我们现在必须穿越它。太阳升起不久，直直地照在我们的眼睛里。一点点稀薄的雾气像烟雾一样从荒原的表面升起。因此（正如艾伦所说）那里可能有二十个龙骑兵中队，而我们却一无所知。

We sat down, therefore, in a howe of the hill-side till the mist should have risen, and made ourselves a dish of drammach, and held a council of war.
因此，我们坐在山坡上的小屋里，直到雾气升起，给自己做了一盘德拉马赫，并举行了一次战争会议。

‘David,’ said Alan, ‘this is the kittle bit. Shall we lie here till it comes night, or shall we risk it, and stave on ahead?’
“大卫，”艾伦说，“这就是关键点。”我们应该躺在这里直到夜幕降临，还是应该冒险继续前进？

‘Well,’ said I, ‘I am tired indeed, but I could walk as far again, if that was all.’
“好吧，”我说，“我确实很累，但如果仅此而已，我还能再走那么远。”

‘Ay, but it isnae,’ said Alan, ‘nor yet the half. This is how we stand: Appin’s fair death to us. To the south it’s all Campbells, and no to be thought of. To the north; well, there’s no muckle to be gained by going north; neither for you, that wants to get to Queensferry, nor yet for me, that wants to get to France. Well, then, we’ll can strike east.’
“是的，但还不是，”艾伦说，“还不是一半。”这就是我们的立场：阿平的死对我们来说是公平的。南边都是坎贝尔，没什么可想的。去北边;好吧，向北走也没什么麻烦。无论是对于想要去昆斯费里的你，还是想要去法国的我。好吧，那么我们就可以向东进攻了。”

‘East be it!’ says I, quite cheerily; but I was thinking’ in to myself: ‘O, man, if you would only take one point of the compass and let me take any other, it would be the best for both of us.’
“就这样吧！”我高兴地说。但我心里想：“哦，伙计，如果你只取指南针的一点，让我取另一点，那对我们俩来说都是最好的。”

‘Well, then, east, ye see, we have the muirs,’ said Alan. ‘Once there, David, it’s mere pitch-and-toss. Out on yon bald, naked, flat place, where can a body turn to? Let the red-coats come over a hill, they can spy you miles away; and the sorrow’s in their horses’ heels, they would soon ride you down. It’s no good place, David; and I’m free to say, it’s worse by daylight than by dark.’
“好吧，那么，东方，你看，我们有缪尔人，”艾伦说。 ‘大卫，一旦到了那里，就只是投球了。在光秃秃的、赤裸的、平坦的地方，身体能转向哪里？让红大褂翻过一座小山，他们可以在几英里之外监视你；悲伤就在他们的马蹄铁上，他们很快就会把你压倒。这可不是什么好地方，大卫；我可以随意地说，白天的情况比黑暗的情况更糟糕。

‘Alan,’ said I, ‘hear my way of it. Appin’s death for us; we have none too much money, nor yet meal; the longer they seek, the nearer they may guess where we are; it’s all a risk; and I give my word to go ahead until we drop.’
“艾伦，”我说，“听听我的做法。”阿平为我们而死；我们没有太多钱，也没有饭吃；他们寻找的时间越长，就越能猜到我们在哪里；这都是风险；我保证继续前进，直到我们倒下。

Alan was delighted. ‘There are whiles,’ said he, ‘when ye are altogether too canny and Whiggish to be company for a gentleman like me; but there come other whiles when ye show yoursel’ a mettle spark; and it’s then, David, that I love ye like a brother.’
艾伦很高兴。 “有时候，”他说，“你们太精明了，太辉格党人了，无法与像我这样的绅士做伴；但有时你们也会表现出勇气的火花；大卫，就在那时，我像爱兄弟一样爱你。

The mist rose and died away, and showed us that country lying as waste as the sea; only the moorfowl and the pewees crying upon it, and far over to the east, a herd of deer, moving like dots. Much of it was red with heather; much of the rest broken up with bogs and hags and peaty pools; some had been burnt black in a heath fire; and in another place there was quite a forest of dead firs, standing like skeletons. A wearier-looking desert man never saw; but at least it was clear of troops, which was our point.
雾气升起又消散，向我们展示了那个像大海一样荒芜的国家。只有沼禽和小斑鹬在上面鸣叫，远处的东方，有一群鹿，像点一样移动。大部分都是红色的石南花。其余的大部分地区都被沼泽、鬼婆和泥炭池所破坏。有些在石南大火中被烧黑了。在另一个地方，有一片枯死的冷杉林，像骷髅一样矗立着。一个看上去更加疲倦的沙漠人从未见过；但至少没有军队，这就是我们的观点。

We went down accordingly into the waste, and began to make our toilsome and devious travel towards the eastern verge. There were the tops of mountains all round (you are to remember) from whence we might be spied at any moment; so it behoved us to keep in the hollow parts of the moor, and when these turned aside from our direction to move upon its naked face with infinite care. Sometimes, for half an hour together, we must crawl from one heather bush to another, as hunters do when they are hard upon the deer. It was a clear day again, with a blazing sun; the water in the brandy bottle was soon gone; and altogether, if I had guessed what it would be to crawl half the time upon my belly and to walk much of the rest stooping nearly to the knees, I should certainly have held back from such a killing enterprise.
我们相应地走进了荒原，开始向东部边缘进行艰苦而曲折的旅行。周围都是山顶（你要记住），从那里我们随时都可能被监视。因此，我们必须留在荒野的空旷部分，当它们偏离我们的方向时，我们要极其小心地在其裸露的表面上移动。有时，我们必须在一起半个小时，从一处石南花丛爬到另一处石南花丛，就像猎人在追捕鹿时所做的那样。又是一个晴朗的日子，阳光灿烂。白兰地瓶里的水很快就没有了。总而言之，如果我猜到一半的时间是趴着爬行，其余的大部分时间都是弯着膝盖走路，我肯定会阻止这样的杀戮事业。

Toiling and resting and toiling again, we wore away the morning; and about noon lay down in a thick bush of heather to sleep. Alan took the first watch; and it seemed to me I had scarce closed my eyes before I was shaken up to take the second. We had no clock to go by; and Alan stuck a sprig of heath in the ground to serve instead; so that as soon as the shadow of the bush should fall so far to the east, I might know to rouse him. But I was by this time so weary that I could have slept twelve hours at a stretch; I had the taste of sleep in my throat; my joints slept even when my mind was waking; the hot smell of the heather, and the drone of the wild bees, were like possets to me; and every now and again I would give a jump and find I had been dozing.
劳作、休息、劳作，我们度过了一个早晨；中午时分，我们躺在茂密的石南花丛中睡觉。艾伦第一个值班。在我看来，我刚闭上眼睛，就被震撼到要接受第二次了。我们没有时钟可以参考；艾伦在地里插了一枝石楠来代替。这样，一旦灌木丛的影子落到如此遥远的东方，我就可以知道要叫醒他。但此时我已经太累了，可以连续睡十二个小时。我喉咙里有睡意的味道；即使我的头脑清醒，我的关节也在睡觉；石南花的热气和野蜂的嗡嗡声对我来说就像是酒。时不时地，我会跳起来，发现自己一直在打瞌睡。

The last time I woke I seemed to come back from farther away, and thought the sun had taken a great start in the heavens. I looked at the sprig of heath, and at that I could have cried aloud: for I saw I had betrayed my trust. My head was nearly turned with fear and shame; and at what I saw, when I looked out around me on the moor, my heart was like dying in my body. For sure enough, a body of horse-soldiers had come down during my sleep, and were drawing near to us from the south-east, spread out in the shape of a fan and riding their horses to and fro in the deep parts of the heather.
上次醒来时，我似乎从很远的地方回来了，以为太阳已经在天上有了一个伟大的开始。我看着那株石南花，我几乎要放声大哭：因为我发现我辜负了我的信任。我的头几乎因恐惧和羞愧而转过头来。当我在荒原上环顾四周时，我所看到的，我的心就像死在我的身体里一样。果然，我睡梦中，有一群马兵下来，从东南方向逼近，排成扇形，骑着马在大地深处来来往往。石南花。

When I waked Alan, he glanced first at the soldiers, then at the mark and the position of the sun, and knitted his brows with a sudden, quick look, both ugly and anxious, which was all the reproach I had of him.
当我叫醒艾伦时，他先看了一眼士兵们，然后看了看标记和太阳的位置，然后突然迅速地皱起眉头，眼神既丑陋又焦急，这就是我对他的全部责备。

‘What are we to do now?’ I asked.
“我们现在该怎么办？”我问道。

‘We’ll have to play at being hares,’ said he. ‘Do ye see yon mountain?’ pointing to one on the north-eastern sky.
“我们得扮演兔子的角色，”他说。 “你看到那座山了吗？”指着东北天空上的一座山。

‘Ay,’ said I.
“嗯，”我说。

‘Well, then,’ says he, ‘let us strike for that. Its name is Ben Alder. it is a wild, desert mountain full of hills and hollows, and if we can win to it before the morn, we may do yet.’
“那么，”他说，“让我们为此努力吧。”它的名字叫本·奥尔德。这是一座荒凉的沙漠山，布满丘陵和洼地，如果我们能在早上之前获胜，我们还可以。

‘But, Alan,’ cried I, ‘that will take us across the very coming of the soldiers!’
“但是，艾伦，”我喊道，“那会带我们穿越士兵到来的时刻！”

‘I ken that fine,’ said he; ‘but if we are driven back on Appin, we are two dead men. So now, David man, be brisk!’
“我觉得很好，”他说。 “但如果我们被赶回阿平，我们就成了两个死人了。”所以现在，大卫哥，快点！”

With that he began to run forward on his hands and knees with an incredible quickness, as though it were his natural way of going. All the time, too, he kept winding in and out in the lower parts of the moorland where we were the best concealed. Some of these had been burned or at least scathed with fire; and there rose in our faces (which were close to the ground) a blinding, choking dust as fine as smoke. The water was long out; and this posture of running on the hands and knees brings an overmastering weakness and weariness, so that the joints ache and the wrists faint under your weight.
说完，他开始用手和膝盖以令人难以置信的速度向前奔跑，仿佛这是他自然的前进方式。他也一直在荒原的低处蜿蜒进出，那里是我们最隐蔽的地方。其中一些已被烧毁或至少被火烧伤；我们的脸（靠近地面）升起了一层令人眼花缭乱、令人窒息的细如烟雾的灰尘。水早已没了；而这种手脚并用的跑步姿势，会带来无法克制的无力感和疲倦感，以致关节疼痛，手腕在你的体重下发软。

Now and then, indeed, where was a big bush of heather, we lay awhile, and panted, and putting aside the leaves, looked back at the dragoons. They had not spied us, for they held straight on; a half-troop, I think, covering about two miles of ground, and beating it mighty thoroughly as they went. I had awakened just in time; a little later, and we must have fled in front of them, instead of escaping on one side. Even as it was, the least misfortune might betray us; and now and again, when a grouse rose out of the heather with a clap of wings, we lay as still as the dead and were afraid to breathe.
确实，时不时地，哪里有一大丛石南花，我们就躺一会儿，气喘吁吁，把树叶放在一边，回头看看龙骑兵。他们没有发现我们，因为他们一直在坚持。我认为是半个部队，覆盖了大约两英里的土地，并且一路上彻底击败了它。我及时醒来；过了一会儿，我们一定是在他们面前逃走了，而不是从一侧逃走。即便如此，最轻微的不幸也可能会背叛我们。时不时地，当一只松鸡拍打翅膀从石南丛中飞出来时，我们就像死人一样静静地躺着，不敢呼吸。

The aching and faintness of my body, the labouring of my heart, the soreness of my hands, and the smarting of my throat and eyes in the continual smoke of dust and ashes, had soon grown to be so unbearable that I would gladly have given up. Nothing but the fear of Alan lent me enough of a false kind of courage to continue. As for himself (and you are to bear in mind that he was cumbered with a great-coat) he had first turned crimson, but as time went on the redness began to be mingled with patches of white; his breath cried and whistled as it came; and his voice, when he whispered his observations in my ear during our halts, sounded like nothing human. Yet he seemed in no way dashed in spirits, nor did he at all abate in his activity, so that I was driven, to marvel at the man’s endurance.
我身体的疼痛和虚弱，我的心脏的劳累，我的手的酸痛，以及我的喉咙和眼睛在持续不断的灰尘和灰烬的烟雾中的刺痛，很快就变得如此难以忍受，以至于我很乐意放弃向上。除了对艾伦的恐惧之外，什么也没有给我足够的虚假勇气继续下去。至于他自己（你要记住，他穿着一件大衣），他首先变成了深红色，但随着时间的推移，红色开始与白色的斑点混合在一起；他的呼吸呼啸而过。当我们停下来时，当他在我耳边低声说出他的观察结果时，他的声音听起来完全不像人类。但他的精神却丝毫没有消沉，活动也丝毫没有减弱，让我不得不惊叹这个人的耐力。

At length, in the first gloaming of the night, we heard a trumpet sound, and looking back from among the heather, saw the troop beginning to collect. A little after, they had built a fire and camped for the night, about the middle of the waste.
终于，在夜色初现的时候，我们听到了号角声，从石南花丛中回头望去，看到队伍开始聚集。不久之后，他们生了火，在荒地中央扎营过夜。

At this I begged and besought that we might lie down and sleep.
听到这里，我恳求我们可以躺下睡觉。

‘There shall be no sleep the night!’ said Alan. ‘From now on, these weary dragoons of yours will keep the crown of the muirland, and none will get out of Appin but winged fowls. We got through in the nick of time, and shall we jeopard what we’ve gained? Na, na, when the day comes, it shall find you and me in a fast place on Ben Alder.’
“今晚将无法入睡！”艾伦说。 “从现在开始，你们这些疲惫的龙骑兵将守住缪尔兰的王冠，除了长翅膀的鸟儿，没有人能离开阿平。”我们在紧要关头渡过了难关，难道我们会毁掉我们已经取得的成果吗？不，不，当那一天到来时，它会发现你和我在本阿尔德的一个快速地方。

‘Alan,’ I said, ‘it’s not the want of will: it’s the strength that I want. If I could, I would; but as sure as I’m alive I cannot.’
“艾伦，”我说，“这不是缺乏意志，而是我想要的力量。”如果可以的话，我会的；但我确信我还活着，但我不能。”

‘Very well, then,’ said Alan. ‘I’ll carry ye.’
“那么，很好，”艾伦说。 “我来背你。”

I looked to see if he were jesting; but no, the little man was in dead earnest; and the sight of so much resolution shamed me.
我看看他是不是在开玩笑；但不，这个小个子男人是非常认真的。看到如此大的决心，我感到羞愧。

‘Lead away!’ said I. ‘I’ll follow.’
“带路吧！”我说，“我会跟着。”

He gave me one look as much as to say, ‘Well done, David!’ and off he set again at his top speed.
他看了我一眼，仿佛在说：“干得好，大卫！”然后他又以最快的速度出发了。

It grew cooler and even a little darker (but not much) with the coming of the night. The sky was cloudless; it was still early in July, and pretty far north; in the darkest part of that night, you would have needed pretty good eyes to read, but for all that, I have often seen it darker in a winter mid-day. Heavy dew fell and drenched the moor like rain; and this refreshed me for a while. When we stopped to breathe, and I had time to see all about me, the clearness and sweetness of the night, the shapes of the hills like things asleep, and the fire dwindling away behind us, like a bright spot in the midst of the moor, anger would come upon me in a clap that I must still drag myself in agony and eat the dust like a worm.
随着夜晚的到来，天气变得凉爽，甚至有点暗（但不多）。天空万里无云；那时还是七月初，而且已经是很北的地方了。在那个夜晚最黑暗的时候，你需要非常好的眼睛才能阅读，但尽管如此，我经常在冬天的中午看到更黑暗的情况。浓浓的露水落下来，把荒野淋得像雨一样；这让我精神一振。当我们停下来呼吸时，我有时间看清周围的一切，夜晚的清澈和甜蜜，山丘的形状就像熟睡的东西，火在我们身后渐渐消失，就像夜空中的一个亮点。沼泽地，愤怒会突然降临到我身上，我仍然必须在痛苦中拖着自己，像蠕虫一样吃掉灰尘。

By what I have read in books, I think few that have held a pen were ever really wearied, or they would write of it more strongly. I had no care of my life, neither past nor future, and I scarce remembered there was such a lad as David Balfour. I did not think of myself, but just of each fresh step which I was sure would be my last, with despair — and of Alan, who was the cause of it, with hatred. Alan was in the right trade as a soldier; this is the officer’s part to make men continue to do things, they know not wherefore, and when, if the choice was offered, they would lie down where they were and be killed. And I dare say I would have made a good enough private; for in these last hours it never occurred to me that I had any choice but just to obey as long as I was able, and die obeying.
根据我在书上读到的内容，我认为很少有拿笔的人真正感到厌倦，或者他们会写得更强烈。我不关心自己的生活，无论是过去还是未来，我几乎不记得有一个像大卫·贝尔福这样的小伙子。我没有想到自己，而是怀着绝望的心情想到每一步，我确信这将是我的最后一步，而怀着仇恨，想到造成这一切的艾伦。艾伦是一名合格的军人。这是军官的职责，让人们继续做事，他们不知道为什么，什么时候，如果有选择的话，他们会躺在原地并被杀。我敢说我会做一个足够好的私人；因为在这最后的几个小时里，我从来没有想过我有任何选择，只能尽我所能地服从，并在服从中死去。

Day began to come in, after years, I thought; and by that time we were past the greatest danger, and could walk upon our feet like men, instead of crawling like brutes. But, dear heart have mercy! what a pair we must have made, going double like old grandfathers, stumbling like babes, and as white as dead folk. Never a word passed between us; each set his mouth and kept his eyes in front of him, and lifted up his foot and set it down again, like people lifting weights at a country play;[27] all the while, with the moorfowl crying ‘peep!’ in the heather, and the light coming slowly clearer in the east.
我想，多年之后，白天开始来临；到那时，我们已经度过了最大的危险，可以像人一样用脚行走，而不是像野兽一样爬行。但是，亲爱的心，怜悯吧！我们一定是天造地设的一对，像老祖父一样双倍，像婴儿一样跌跌撞撞，像死人一样苍白。我们之间从未说过一句话；每个人都张着嘴，眼睛看着前方，抬起脚，然后又放下，就像人们在乡村戏剧中举重一样；[27] 一直以来，沼泽中的野鸡都在喊着“窥视！”石南花，东方的光线慢慢变得清晰起来。

[27] Village fair.
[27] 乡村集市。

I say Alan did as I did. Not that ever I looked at him, for I had enough ado to keep my feet; but because it is plain he must have been as stupid with weariness as myself, and looked as little where we were going, or we should not have walked into an ambush like blind men.
我说艾伦和我一样。我从来没有看他一眼，因为我已经够麻烦了才能保持脚步。但因为很明显，他一定和我一样因疲倦而愚蠢，对我们要去的地方也同样不看，否则我们就不会像盲人一样走进埋伏。

It fell in this way. We were going down a heathery brae, Alan leading and I following a pace or two behind, like a fiddler and his wife; when upon a sudden the heather gave a rustle, three or four ragged men leaped out, and the next moment we were lying on our backs, each with a dirk at his throat.
就这样掉下来了。我们正沿着石南花丛走下去，艾伦领头，我跟在后面一两步，就像小提琴手和他的妻子一样。突然，石南花发出一阵沙沙声，三四个衣衫褴褛的人跳了出来，下一刻我们就仰面躺倒了，每个人的喉咙上都插着一把短刀。

I don’t think I cared; the pain of this rough handling was quite swallowed up by the pains of which I was already full; and I was too glad to have stopped walking to mind about a dirk. I lay looking up in the face of the man that held me; and I mind his face was black with the sun, and his eyes very light, but I was not afraid of him. I heard Alan and another whispering in the Gaelic; and what they said was all one to me.
我认为我不在乎；这种粗鲁处理的痛苦完全被我已经充满的痛苦所吞噬。我很高兴没有停下来去想一把短刀。我躺在地上，抬头看着那个抱着我的人的脸。我介意他的脸被太阳晒黑了，眼睛很浅，但我并不害怕他。我听到艾伦和另一个人用盖尔语窃窃私语。他们所说的对我来说都是一样的。

Then the dirks were put up, our weapons were taken away, and we were set face to face, sitting in the heather.
然后短刀被竖起来，我们的武器被拿走，我们面对面坐在石南丛中。

‘They are Cluny’s men,’ said Alan. ‘We couldnae have fallen better. We’re just to bide here with these, which are his out-sentries, till they can get word to the chief of my arrival.’
“他们是克鲁尼的人，”艾伦说。 ‘我们跌得再好不过了。我们只是和这些人一起待在这里，他们是他的哨兵，直到他们向长官报告我的到来。

Now Cluny Macpherson, the chief of the clan Vourich, had been one of the leaders of the great rebellion six years before; there was a price on his life; and I had supposed him long ago in France, with the rest of the heads of that desperate party. Even tired as I was, the surprise of what I heard half wakened me.
沃里希氏族的首领克鲁尼·麦克弗森是六年前大叛乱的领导人之一。他的生命是有代价的；我很久以前就在法国猜想他和那个绝望党派的其他领导人在一起。尽管我很累，但我所听到的惊讶却让我半醒了。

‘What,’ I cried, ‘is Cluny still here?’
“什么，”我喊道，“克鲁尼还在吗？”

‘Ay, is he so!’ said Alan. ‘Still in his own country and kept by his own clan. King George can do no more.’
“啊，他是这样吗！”艾伦说。 ‘仍在他自己的国家，由他自己的氏族保管。乔治国王无能为力了。

I think I would have asked farther, but Alan gave me the put-off. ‘I am rather wearied,’ he said, ‘and I would like fine to get a sleep.’ And without more words, he rolled on his face in a deep heather bush, and seemed to sleep at once.
我想我应该问得更进一步，但艾伦推迟了我。 “我有点累了，”他说，“我很想睡一觉。”没有再说什么，他在一片深深的石南花丛中打了个滚，似乎立刻就睡着了。

There was no such thing possible for me. You have heard grasshoppers whirring in the grass in the summer time? Well, I had no sooner closed my eyes, than my body, and above all my head, belly, and wrists, seemed to be filled with whirring grasshoppers; and I must open my eyes again at once, and tumble and toss, and sit up and lie down; and look at the sky which dazzled me, or at Cluny’s wild and dirty sentries, peering out over the top of the brae and chattering to each other in the Gaelic.
对我来说这是不可能的。夏天的时候，你听过蚱蜢在草丛中呼呼的叫声吗？嗯，我一闭上眼睛，我的身体，尤其是我的头、肚子和手腕，似乎都充满了呼呼作响的蚱蜢；我必须立刻睁开眼睛，翻滚、翻滚、坐起、躺下。看看让我眼花缭乱的天空，或者看看克鲁尼狂野而肮脏的哨兵，他们从布雷的顶部向外张望，用盖尔语互相交谈。

That was all the rest I had, until the messenger returned; when, as it appeared that Cluny would be glad to receive us, we must get once more upon our feet and set forward. Alan was in excellent good spirits, much refreshed by his sleep, very hungry, and looking pleasantly forward to a dram and a dish of hot collops, of which, it seems, the messenger had brought him word. For my part, it made me sick to hear of eating. I had been dead-heavy before, and now I felt a kind of dreadful lightness, which would not suffer me to walk. I drifted like a gossamer; the ground seemed to me a cloud, the hills a feather-weight, the air to have a current, like a running burn, which carried me to and fro. With all that, a sort of horror of despair sat on my mind, so that I could have wept at my own helplessness.
这就是我剩下的一切，直到信使回来。当克鲁尼似乎很高兴接待我们时，我们必须再次站起来并继续前进。艾伦的精神非常好，睡眠使他神清气爽，肚子也很饿，愉快地期待着一杯酒和一盘热乎乎的软糖，看来信使已经给他带来了消息。就我而言，听到吃东西让我感到恶心。以前我还重得要死，现在我感到一种可怕的轻盈，让我无法行走。我像游丝一样漂流；对我来说，大地就像一朵云，山丘就像羽毛一样重，空气就像一股气流，像燃烧的燃烧一样，带着我来回走动。尽管如此，一种绝望的恐惧笼罩在我的脑海里，我几乎为自己的无助而哭泣。

I saw Alan knitting his brows at me, and supposed it was in anger; and that gave me a pang of light-headed fear, like what a child may have. I remember, too, that I was smiling, and could not stop smiling, hard as I tried; for I thought it was out of place at such a time. But my good companion had nothing in his mind but kindness; and the next moment, two of the gillies had me by the arms, and I began to be carried forward with great swiftness (or so it appeared to me, although I dare say it was slowly enough in truth), through a labyrinth of dreary glens and hollows and into the heart of that dismal mountain of Ben Alder.
我看到艾伦对我皱起了眉头，我猜他是在生气。这让我感到一阵头晕目眩的恐惧，就像小孩子一样。我还记得我当时在微笑，而且无论我怎么努力都无法停止微笑。因为我认为在这种时候这样做是不合适的。但我的好伙伴除了仁慈之外什么也没有。下一刻，两个吉利抓住了我的手臂，我开始被以极快的速度向前推进（至少在我看来是这样，尽管我敢说实际上已经足够缓慢了），穿过一个沉闷的迷宫。峡谷和洼地，进入本阿尔德那座阴森的山脉的中心。

CHAPTER XXIII
第二十三章


CLUNY’S CAGE
克鲁尼的笼子

We came at last to the foot of an exceeding steep wood, which scrambled up a craggy hillside, and was crowned by a naked precipice.
我们终于来到了一片极其陡峭的树林脚下，这片树林爬上了崎岖的山坡，顶部是裸露的悬崖。

‘It’s here,’ said one of the guides, and we struck up hill.
“就在这里，”一位导游说道，然后我们就上山了。

The trees clung upon the slope, like sailors on the shrouds of a ship, and their trunks were like the rounds of a ladder, by which we mounted.
树木紧贴在斜坡上，就像水手们坐在船的桅杆上，它们的树干就像梯子的圆角，我们乘梯子爬上去。

Quite at the top, and just before the rocky face of the cliff sprang above the foliage, we found that strange house which was known in the country as ‘Cluny’s Cage.’ The trunks of several trees had been wattled across, the intervals strengthened with stakes, and the ground behind this barricade levelled up with earth to make the floor. A tree, which grew out from the hillside, was the living centre-beam of the roof. The walls were of wattle and covered with moss. The whole house had something of an egg shape; and it half hung, half stood in that steep, hillside thicket, like a wasp’s nest in a green hawthorn.
就在山顶，就在悬崖的岩石表面冲出树叶之前，我们发现了那座奇怪的房子，在该国被称为“克鲁尼的笼子”。路障后面的地面用泥土平整，作为地板。一棵从山坡上长出来的树，是屋顶活生生的中梁。墙壁是用荆条铺成的，上面长满了青苔。整个房子呈鸡蛋形状。它一半悬挂，一半矗立在那陡峭的山坡灌木丛中，就像绿色山楂树上的黄蜂巢。

Within, it was large enough to shelter five or six persons with some comfort. A projection of the cliff had been cunningly employed to be the fireplace; and the smoke rising against the face of the rock, and being not dissimilar in colour, readily escaped notice from below.
里面足够大，可以容纳五六个人，还算舒适。悬崖的突出部分被巧妙地用作壁炉。烟雾从岩石表面升起，颜色也没有什么不同，很容易就被下面的人注意到了。

This was but one of Cluny’s hiding-places; he had caves, besides, and underground chambers in several parts of his country; and following the reports of his scouts, he moved from one to another as the soldiers drew near or moved away. By this manner of living, and thanks to the affection of his clan, he had not only stayed all this time in safety, while so many others had fled or been taken and slain: but stayed four or five years longer, and only went to France at last by the express command of his master. There he soon died; and it is strange to reflect that he may have regretted his Cage upon Ben Alder.
这只是克鲁尼的藏身之处之一。此外，他在他的国家的几个地方都有洞穴和地下房间。根据侦察兵的报告，当士兵们靠近或离开时，他从一个地方移动到另一个地方。靠着这种生活方式，再加上家族的爱戴，他不仅一直安全地待着，而其他许多人已经逃亡或被抓获和杀害：而且还多待了四五年，只去了法国终于得到了他主人的明确命令。他很快就死在那里。奇怪的是，他可能对本阿尔德的笼子感到后悔。

When we came to the door he was seated by his rock chimney, watching a gillie about some cookery. He was mighty plainly habited, with a knitted nightcap drawn over his ears, and smoked a foul cutty pipe. For all that he had the manners of a king, and it was quite a sight to see him rise out of his place to welcome us.
当我们走到门口时，他正坐在岩石烟囱旁，看着吉利谈论烹饪。他衣着朴素，戴着一顶针织睡帽，盖住耳朵，抽着一支肮脏的烟斗。尽管如此，他仍具有国王的举止，看到他从座位上站起来欢迎我们，真是令人印象深刻。

‘Well, Mr. Stewart, come awa’, sir!’ said he, ‘and bring in your friend that as yet I dinna ken the name of.’
“好吧，斯图尔特先生，快来吧，先生！”他说道，“带上你的朋友来，我还不知道他的名字。”

‘And how is yourself, Cluny?’ said Alan. ‘I hope ye do brawly, sir. And I am proud to see ye, and to present to ye my friend the Laird of Shaws, Mr. David Balfour.’
“克鲁尼，你怎么样？”艾伦说。 “我希望你们能打架，先生。我很荣幸见到你们，并向你们介绍我的朋友萧氏领主大卫·贝尔福先生。

Alan never referred to my estate without a touch of a sneer, when we were alone; but with strangers, he rang the words out like a herald.
当我们独处时，艾伦每次提到我的庄园时都会不带一丝冷笑。但对于陌生人，他却像传令官一样大声喊出这些话。

‘Step in by, the both of ye, gentlemen,’ says Cluny. ‘I make ye welcome to my house, which is a queer, rude place for certain, but one where I have entertained a royal personage, Mr. Stewart — ye doubtless ken the personage I have in my eye. We’ll take a dram for luck, and as soon as this handless man of mine has the collops ready, we’ll dine and take a hand at the cartes as gentlemen should. My life is a bit driegh,’ says he, pouring out the brandy;’ I see little company, and sit and twirl my thumbs, and mind upon a great day that is gone by, and weary for another great day that we all hope will be upon the road. And so here’s a toast to ye: The Restoration!’
“先生们，请两位过来，”克鲁尼说道。 “我欢迎你们来到我的家，这确实是一个奇怪、粗鲁的地方，但我曾在那里招待过一位皇室人物，斯图尔特先生——你们无疑认识我眼中的这位人物。我们要喝一杯酒以求好运，等我这个没有手的人准备好酒后，我们就会像绅士们一样吃饭并帮忙点菜。我的生活有点干燥，”他一边说，一边倒出白兰地；“我没看到什么人，就坐下来转动拇指，想着已经过去的伟大的一天，并厌倦了我们都希望的另一个伟大的一天。将会在路上。因此，谨向你们干杯：复辟！

Thereupon we all touched glasses and drank. I am sure I wished no ill to King George; and if he had been there himself in proper person, it’s like he would have done as I did. No sooner had I taken out the drain than I felt hugely better, and could look on and listen, still a little mistily perhaps, but no longer with the same groundless horror and distress of mind.
于是我们都碰了碰酒杯，一饮而尽。我确信我并不想伤害乔治国王；如果他本人在场，他就会像我一样做。我一拔掉排水管，就感觉好多了，可以观看和聆听，也许仍然有点迷茫，但不再有同样毫无根据的恐惧和痛苦。

It was certainly a strange place, and we had a strange host. In his long hiding, Cluny had grown to have all manner of precise habits, like those of an old maid. He had a particular place, where no one else must sit; the Cage was arranged in a particular way, which none must disturb; cookery was one of his chief fancies, and even while he was greeting us in, he kept an eye to the collops.
这确实是一个奇怪的地方，我们有一个奇怪的主人。在长期的躲藏中，克鲁尼已经养成了各种精确的习惯，就像一个老处女一样。他有一个特定的地方，其他人不得坐在那里；笼子以特殊方式布置，任何人不得扰乱；烹饪是他的主要爱好之一，甚至在他迎接我们进来的时候，他也一直留意着我们的崩溃。

It appears, he sometimes visited or received visits from his wife and one or two of his nearest friends, under the cover of night; but for the more part lived quite alone, and communicated only with his sentinels and the gillies that waited on him in the Cage. The first thing in the morning, one of them, who was a barber, came and shaved him, and gave him the news of the country, of which he was immoderately greedy. There was no end to his questions; he put them as earnestly as a child; and at some of the answers, laughed out of all bounds of reason, and would break out again laughing at the mere memory, hours after the barber was gone.
看来，他有时会在夜色的掩护下拜访或接待他的妻子和一两个最亲密的朋友。但大部分时间他都独自生活，只与他的哨兵和笼子里伺候他的吉利交流。早上的第一件事，其中一个理发师来给他刮胡子，并告诉他这个国家的新闻，他对这个国家的新闻非常贪婪。他的问题没完没了。他像孩子一样认真地对待它们；听到其中一些答案，他无缘无故地大笑起来，在理发师走后几个小时后，仅仅想起记忆，他就会再次大笑起来。

To be sure, there might have been a purpose in his questions; for though he was thus sequestered, and like the other landed gentlemen of Scotland, stripped by the late Act of Parliament of legal powers, he still exercised a patriarchal justice in his clan. Disputes were brought to him in his hiding-hole to be decided; and the men of his country, who would have snapped their fingers at the Court of Session, laid aside revenge and paid down money at the bare word of this forfeited and hunted outlaw. When he was angered, which was often enough, he gave his commands and breathed threats of punishment like any, king; and his gillies trembled and crouched away from him like children before a hasty father. With each of them, as he entered, he ceremoniously shook hands, both parties touching their bonnets at the same time in a military manner. Altogether, I had a fair chance to see some of the inner workings of a Highland clan; and this with a proscribed, fugitive chief; his country conquered; the troops riding upon all sides in quest of him, sometimes within a mile of where he lay; and when the least of the ragged fellows whom he rated and threatened, could have made a fortune by betraying him.
可以肯定的是，他的问题可能是有目的的。因为尽管他因此被隔离，并且像苏格兰其他土地绅士一样，被最近的议会法案剥夺了合法权力，但他仍然在他的氏族中行使父权正义。争议被带到他的藏身之处，由他来解决。他的国家的人们本想向最高法庭打响指，但听了这个被没收并被追捕的亡命之徒的一句话，他们就放下了复仇，付了钱。当他生气时（这种情况经常发生），他会像任何国王一样发出命令并发出惩罚威胁。他的吉利颤抖着，从他身边蹲下来，就像孩子在匆忙的父亲面前一样。当他进来时，他隆重地与他们每一个人握手，双方同时以军人的方式触摸他们的帽子。总而言之，我有很好的机会了解高地氏族的一些内部运作方式。这件事是针对一个被驱逐的逃亡首领；他的国家被征服了；军队从四面八方寻找他，有时距离他所在的地方不到一英里；当他评价和威胁的那些衣衫褴褛的家伙中，哪怕是最小的一个，也可以通过背叛他来发大财。

On that first day, as soon as the collops were ready, Cluny gave them with his own hand a squeeze of a lemon (for he was well supplied with luxuries) and bade us draw in to our meal.
第一天，当馅饼准备好后，克鲁尼就亲手挤了一杯柠檬（因为他有充足的奢侈品），并吩咐我们吃饭。

‘They,’ said he, meaning the collops, ‘are such as I gave his Royal Highness in this very house; bating the lemon juice, for at that time we were glad to get the meat and never fashed for kitchen.[28] Indeed, there were mair dragoons than lemons in my country in the year forty-six.’
“它们，”他说，指的是崩溃的东西，“就是我在这座房子里送给殿下的东西；淋上柠檬汁，因为当时我们很高兴得到肉，从来没有匆忙去厨房。[28]事实上，四十六年，我的国家里的麦龙骑兵比柠檬还多。

[28]Condiment.
[28]调味品。

I do not know if the collops were truly very good, but my heart rose against the sight of them, and I could eat but little. All the while Cluny entertained us with stories of Prince Charlie’s stay in the Cage, giving us the very words of the speakers, and rising from his place to show us where they stood. By these, I gathered the Prince was a gracious, spirited boy, like the son of a race of polite kings, but not so wise as Solomon. I gathered, too, that while he was in the Cage, he was often drunk; so the fault that has since, by all accounts, made such a wreck of him, had even then begun to show itself.
我不知道这些塌陷是否真的很好，但一看到它们我的心就升腾起来，我只能吃很少的东西。克鲁尼一直在给我们讲述查理王子在笼子里的故事，向我们讲述演讲者的原话，并从他的位置上站起来，向我们展示他们的立场。通过这些，我推测王子是一个亲切、活泼的男孩，就像一个有礼貌的国王的儿子，但不像所罗门那么聪明。我还推测，当他在笼子里时，他经常喝醉。因此，从各方面来看，这个错误已经给他造成了如此严重的伤害，甚至在那时就已经开始显现出来了。

We were no sooner done eating than Cluny brought out an old, thumbed, greasy pack of cards, such as you may find in a mean inn; and his eyes brightened in his face as he proposed that we should fall to playing.
我们刚吃完饭，克鲁尼就拿出一叠旧的、被翻过的、油腻腻的卡片，就像你在一家简陋的旅馆里看到的那样。当他建议我们开始玩耍时，他的眼睛闪闪发亮。

Now this was one of the things I had been brought up to eschew like disgrace; it being held by my father neither the part of a Christian nor yet of a gentleman to set his own livelihood and fish for that of others, on the cast of painted pasteboard. To be sure, I might have pleaded my fatigue, which was excuse enough; but I thought it behoved that I should bear a testimony. I must have got very red in the face, but I spoke steadily, and told them I had no call to be a judge of others, but for my own part, it was a matter in which I had no clearness.
这是我从小就被教导要避免的事情之一，就像耻辱一样。我父亲认为，既不是基督徒，也不是绅士，他把自己的生计和为他人谋生的想法，放在彩绘纸板的铸件上。诚然，我可能会以疲劳为借口，这已经是足够的借口了。但我认为我应该作见证。我的脸一定很红，但我说话很坚定，告诉他们我没有资格去评判别人，但就我自己而言，这是我不清楚的事情。

Cluny stopped mingling the cards. ‘What in deil’s name is this?’ says he. ‘What kind of Whiggish, canting talk is this, for the house of Cluny Macpherson?’
克鲁尼不再打牌了。 “这到底是什么？”他说。 “对于克鲁尼·麦克弗森家族来说，这算什么辉格党式的、虚伪的言论？”

‘I will put my hand in the fire for Mr. Balfour,’ says Alan. ‘He is an honest and a mettle gentleman, and I would have ye bear in mind who says it. I bear a king’s name,’ says he, cocking his hat; ‘and I and any that I call friend are company for the best. But the gentleman is tired, and should sleep; if he has no mind to the cartes, it will never hinder you and me. And I’m fit and willing, sir, to play ye any game that ye can name.’
“我会为贝尔福先生全力以赴，”艾伦说。 “他是一位诚实而有勇气的绅士，我希望你们记住这句话是谁说的。 “我有国王的名字。”他一边说，一边歪着帽子。 “我和任何我称之为朋友的人都是最好的伙伴。但君子累了，该睡了；如果他不介意的话，那永远不会妨碍你和我。先生，我身体健康，愿意参加任何你能说出名字的游戏。

‘Sir,’ says Cluny, ‘in this poor house of mine I would have you to ken that any gentleman may follow his pleasure. If your friend would like to stand on his head, he is welcome. And if either he, or you, or any other man, is not preceesely satisfied, I will be proud to step outside with him.’
“先生，”克鲁尼说，“在我这座破房子里，我希望您知道，任何绅士都可以随心所欲。如果你的朋友想倒立，我们欢迎他。如果他、你或任何其他人都不满意，我会很自豪地和他一起走出去。

I had no will that these two friends should cut their throats for my sake.
我不希望这两个朋友为了我而割断自己的喉咙。

‘Sir,’ said I, ‘I am very wearied, as Alan says; and what’s more, as you are a man that likely has sons of your own, I may tell you it was a promise to my father.’
“先生，”我说，“正如艾伦所说，我非常疲倦；更重要的是，由于你是一个可能有自己儿子的人，我可以告诉你，这是对我父亲的承诺。

‘Say nae mair, say nae mair,’ said Cluny, and pointed me to a bed of heather in a corner of the Cage. For all that he was displeased enough, looked at me askance, and grumbled when he looked. And indeed it must be owned that both my scruples and the words in which I declared them, smacked somewhat of the Covenanter, and were little in their place among wild Highland Jacobites.
“说‘nae mair’，说‘nae mair’，”克鲁尼说，并指给我看笼子一角的一张石南花床。尽管如此，他还是很不高兴，斜眼看着我，看着我时嘟囔着。事实上，我必须承认，我的顾虑和我宣布这些顾虑的言语都带有某种《盟约》的味道，在狂野的高地雅各布派中几乎没有什么地位。

What with the brandy and the venison, a strange heaviness had come over me; and I had scarce lain down upon the bed before I fell into a kind of trance, in which I continued almost the whole time of our stay in the Cage. Sometimes I was broad awake and understood what passed; sometimes I only heard voices, or men snoring, like the voice of a silly river; and the plaids upon the wall dwindled down and swelled out again, like firelight shadows on the roof. I must sometimes have spoken or cried out, for I remember I was now and then amazed at being answered; yet I was conscious of no particular nightmare, only of a general, black, abiding horror — a horror of the place I was in, and the bed I lay in, and the plaids on the wall, and the voices, and the fire, and myself.
喝了白兰地和鹿肉，我感到一种奇怪的沉重感。我刚躺到床上就陷入了一种恍惚状态，在笼子里的整个时间里我几乎一直处于这种恍惚状态。有时我完全清醒，明白发生了什么；有时我完全清醒，明白发生了什么。有时我只听到说话声，或者男人的鼾声，就像一条愚蠢的河流的声音；墙上的格子逐渐缩小，又膨胀起来，就像屋顶上的火光阴影。我有时一定会说话或大喊大叫，因为我记得我时不时地对得到的答复感到惊讶。然而我并没有意识到任何特别的噩梦，只有一种普遍的、黑色的、持久的恐惧——一种对我所在的地方、我躺着的床、墙上的格子、声音和火焰的恐惧，和我自己。

The barber-gillie, who was a doctor too, was called in to prescribe for me; but as he spoke in the Gaelic, I understood not a word of his opinion, and was too sick even to ask for a translation. I knew well enough I was ill, and that was all I cared about.
理发师吉莉也是一名医生，他被叫来给我开处方。但当他用盖尔语讲话时，我一句也听不懂，而且我什至无法要求翻译。我很清楚自己病了，这就是我所关心的。

I paid little heed while I lay in this poor pass. But Alan and Cluny were most of the time at the cards, and I am clear that Alan must have begun by winning; for I remember sitting up, and seeing them hard at it, and a great glittering pile of as much as sixty or a hundred guineas on the table. It looked strange enough, to see all this wealth in a nest upon a cliff-side, wattled about growing trees. And even then, I thought it seemed deep water for Alan to be riding, who had no better battle-horse than a green purse and a matter of five pounds.
当我躺在这个可怜的山口时，我几乎没有留意。但艾伦和克鲁尼大部分时间都在打牌，我很清楚艾伦一定是从赢开始的；因为我记得我坐起来，看到他们正在努力工作，桌子上有一大堆闪闪发光的六十或一百几尼。看到所有这些财富都在悬崖边的鸟巢里，周围长满了树木，这看起来很奇怪。即便如此，我还是觉得艾伦骑马似乎很困难，他没有比绿色钱包和五磅重的马更好的战马了。

The luck, it seems, changed on the second day. About noon I was wakened as usual for dinner, and as usual refused to eat, and was given a dram with some bitter infusion which the barber had prescribed. The sun was shining in at the open door of the Cage, and this dazzled and offended me. Cluny sat at the table, biting the pack of cards. Alan had stooped over the bed, and had his face close to my eyes; to which, troubled as they were with the fever, it seemed of the most shocking bigness.
运气似乎在第二天就发生了变化。中午时分，我像往常一样被叫醒吃晚饭，但像往常一样拒绝进食，并给了我一杯理发师开的带有苦味输液的酒。阳光从敞开的笼门照进来，让我眼花缭乱，也让我感到不舒服。克鲁尼坐在桌边，咬着那副牌。艾伦在床边弯下腰，将脸靠近我的眼睛。尽管他们因发烧而烦恼，但它似乎是最令人震惊的大。

He asked me for a loan of my money.
他向我借钱。

‘What for?’ said I.
“干什么？”我问。

‘O, just for a loan,’ said he.
“哦，只是为了一笔贷款，”他说。

‘But why?’ I repeated. ‘I don’t see.’
“但是为什么呢？”我重复道。 “我没明白。”

‘Hut, David!’ said Alan, ‘ye wouldnae grudge me a loan?’
“哎呀，大卫！”艾伦说，“你不会不愿意借给我吧？”

I would, though, if I had had my senses! But all I thought of then was to get his face away, and I handed him my money.
不过，如果我有理智的话，我会的！但我当时只想把他的脸拿开，然后我把钱递给了他。

On the morning of the third day, when we had been forty-eight hours in the Cage, I awoke with a great relief of spirits, very weak and weary indeed, but seeing things of the right size and with their honest, everyday appearance. I had a mind to eat, moreover, rose from bed of my own movement, and as soon as we had breakfasted, stepped to the entry of the Cage and sat down outside in the top of the wood. It was a grey day with a cool, mild air: and I sat in a dream all morning, only disturbed by the passing by of Cluny’s scouts and servants coming with provisions and reports; for as the coast was at that time clear, you might almost say he held court openly.
第三天早上，我们在笼子里待了四十八个小时，醒来时我精神大振，虽然非常虚弱和疲倦，但看到的东西尺寸合适，而且有着诚实、日常的外观。而且，我想吃东西，我自己从床上爬起来，吃完早餐后，我就走到笼子的入口处，坐在外面的树林顶部。这是一个灰蒙蒙的日子，空气凉爽而温和：整个早上我都坐在梦中，只有克鲁尼的斥候和仆人带着供给和报告经过时感到不安；因为当时海岸畅通无阻，你几乎可以说他是公开开庭的。

When I returned, he and Alan had laid the cards aside, and were questioning a gillie; and the chief turned about and spoke to me in the Gaelic.
当我回来时，他和艾伦已经把牌放在一边，正在询问吉利。酋长转过身来，用盖尔语对我说话。

‘I have no Gaelic, sir,’ said I.
“我不会盖尔语，先生，”我说。

Now since the card question, everything I said or did had the power of annoying Cluny. ‘Your name has more sense than yourself, then,’ said he angrily. ‘for it’s good Gaelic. But the point is this. My scout reports all clear in the south, and the question is, have ye the strength to go?’
自从卡牌问题之后，我所说或所做的一切都有着惹恼克鲁尼的力量。 “那么，你的名字比你自己更有意义，”他生气地说。 “因为这是很好的盖尔语。但重点是这个。我的侦察员报告说南方一切顺利，问题是，你们有力量去吗？

I saw cards on the table, but no gold; only a heap of little written papers, and these all on Cluny’s side. Alan, besides, had an odd look, like a man not very well content; and I began to have a strong misgiving.
我看到桌子上有牌，但没有金子；只有一堆小纸条，而这些都是克鲁尼这边的。此外，艾伦的表情很奇怪，就像一个不太满足的人。我开始产生了强烈的疑虑。

‘I do not know if I am as well as I should be,’ said I, looking at Alan; ‘but the little money we have has a long way to carry us.’
“我不知道我是否达到了应有的水平，”我看着艾伦说道。 “但我们仅有的一点钱足以支撑我们走很长的路。”

Alan took his under-lip into his mouth, and looked upon the ground.
艾伦将下唇含在嘴里，看着地面。

‘David,’ says he at last, ‘I’ve lost it; there’s the naked truth.’
“大卫，”他最后说道，“我已经失去了它；这是赤裸裸的事实。

‘My money too?’ said I.
“我的钱也一样吗？”我说道。

‘Your money too,’ says Alan, with a groan. ‘Ye shouldnae have given it me. I’m daft when I get to the cartes.’
“还有你的钱，”艾伦呻吟着说道。 ‘你们不应该把它给我的。当我拿到菜单时我就傻了。

‘Hoot-toot! hoot-toot!’ said Cluny. ‘It was all daffing; it’s all nonsense. Of course you’ll have your money back again, and the double of it, if ye’ll make so free with me. It would be a singular thing for me to keep it. It’s not to be supposed that I would be any hindrance to gentlemen in your situation; that would be a singular thing!’ cries he, and began to pull gold out of his pocket with a mighty red face.
‘呜呜！克鲁尼说。 “这一切都令人晕眩；都是废话。当然，如果你愿意和我一起自由的话，你会再次拿回你的钱，而且是双倍的。对我来说，保留它是一件很奇怪的事情。在你们的情况下，我不会成为先生们的任何障碍。 “那真是一件奇特的事情！”他喊道，并开始从口袋里掏出金子，脸涨得通红。

Alan said nothing, only looked on the ground.
艾伦没有说话，只是看着地面。

‘Will you step to the door with me, sir?’ said I.
“先生，您能跟我一起到门口吗？”我说道。

Cluny said he would be very glad, and followed me readily enough, but he looked flustered and put out.
克鲁尼说他会很高兴，并很乐意地跟着我，但他看起来很慌张，很沮丧。

‘And now, sir,’ says I, ‘I must first acknowledge your generosity.’
“现在，先生，”我说，“我必须首先感谢您的慷慨。”

‘Nonsensical nonsense!’ cries Cluny. ‘Where’s the generosity? This is just a most unfortunate affair; but what would ye have me do — boxed up in this bee-skep of a cage of mine — but just set my friends to the cartes, when I can get them? And if they lose, of course, it’s not to be supposed ——‘ And here he came to a pause.
“胡说八道！”克鲁尼喊道。 ‘慷慨在哪里？这只是一件非常不幸的事情；但是你们想让我做什么——把我关在这个蜜蜂笼子里——而不是让我的朋友们去点菜，当我能得到他们的时候？当然，如果他们输了，那就不应该——”说到这里，他停了下来。

‘Yes,’ said I, ‘if they lose, you give them back their money; and if they win, they carry away yours in their pouches! I have said before that I grant your generosity; but to me, sir, it’s a very painful thing to be placed in this position.’
“是的，”我说，“如果他们输了，你就把钱还给他们；如果他们赢了，他们就会把你的东西装在袋子里带走！我以前说过，我同意你的慷慨；但对我来说，先生，处于这个位置是一件非常痛苦的事情。”

There was a little silence, in which Cluny seemed always as if he was about to speak, but said nothing. All the time he grew redder and redder in the face.
一阵沉默，克鲁尼似乎总是要说话，但什么也没说。他的脸越来越红。

‘I am a young man,’ said I, ‘and I ask your advice. Advise me as you would your son. My friend fairly lost his money, after having fairly gained a far greater sum of yours; can I accept it back again? Would that be the right part for me to play? Whatever I do, you can see for yourself it must be hard upon a man of any pride.’
“我是个年轻人，”我说，“我想征求你的意见。”给我提供建议，就像给你的儿子提供建议一样。我的朋友在赚了比你多得多的钱之后，却损失了他的钱。我可以再次接受吗？那是我适合扮演的角色吗？无论我做什么，你都可以亲眼看到，对于任何一个骄傲的人来说，这都一定是艰难的。

‘It’s rather hard on me, too, Mr. Balfour,’ said Cluny, ‘and ye give me very much the look of a man that has entrapped poor people to their hurt. I wouldnae have my friends come to any house of mine to accept affronts; no,’ he cried, with a sudden heat of anger, ‘nor yet to give them!’
“这对我来说也相当困难，贝尔福先生，”克鲁尼说，“你给我的印象就像是一个让穷人陷入伤害的人。”我不会让我的朋友到我的任何一个家里来接受侮辱；不，”他突然怒气冲冲地喊道，“还不给他们！”

‘And so you see, sir,’ said I, ‘there is something to be said upon my side; and this gambling is a very poor employ for gentlefolks. But I am still waiting your opinion.’
“所以你看，先生，”我说，“我这边有一些话要说；对于上流人士来说，这种赌博是一种非常糟糕的职业。但我仍在等待你的意见。

I am sure if ever Cluny hated any man it was David Balfour. He looked me all over with a warlike eye, and I saw the challenge at his lips. But either my youth disarmed him, or perhaps his own sense of justice. Certainly it was a mortifying matter for all concerned, and not least Cluny; the more credit that he took it as he did.
我确信，如果克鲁尼曾经讨厌过一个人，那就是大卫·贝尔福。他用好战的眼神打量了我，我从他嘴里看到了挑战。但要么是我的青春解除了他的武装，要么是他自己的正义感。当然，这对所有相关人员来说都是一件令人羞愧的事情，尤其是克鲁尼。他越认为自己所做的事情越值得赞扬。

‘Mr. Balfour,’ said he, ‘I think you are too nice and covenanting, but for all that you have the spirit of a very pretty gentleman. Upon my honest word, ye may take this money — it’s what I would tell my son — and here’s my hand along with it!’
'先生。贝尔福，”他说，“我觉得你太好了，太有契约精神了，但尽管如此，你还是有一位非常漂亮的绅士的精神。老实说，你们可以拿走这笔钱——这是我要告诉我儿子的——这是我的手！”

CHAPTER XXIV
第二十四章


THE FLIGHT IN THE HEATHER: THE QUARREL
石南花丛中的飞行：争吵

Alan and I were put across Loch Errocht under cloud of night, and went down its eastern shore to another hiding-place near the head of Loch Rannoch, whither we were led by one of the gillies from the Cage. This fellow carried all our luggage and Alan’s great-coat in the bargain, trotting along under the burthen, far less than the half of which used to weigh me to the ground, like a stout hill pony with a feather; yet he was a man that, in plain contest, I could have broken on my knee.
艾伦和我在夜色的笼罩下穿过埃罗赫特湖，沿着东岸来到兰诺赫湖源头附近的另一个藏身之处，我们在笼子里的一只吉利的带领下到达那里。这个家伙扛着我们所有的行李和艾伦的大衣，在负担下小跑着，远远小于过去一半的负担，就像一匹长着羽毛的粗壮山马；但他是一个在普通的竞争中我可能会跪下的人。

Doubtless it was a great relief to walk disencumbered; and perhaps without that relief, and the consequent sense of liberty and lightness, I could not have walked at all. I was but new risen from a bed of sickness; and there was nothing in the state of our affairs to hearten me for much exertion; travelling, as we did, over the most dismal deserts in Scotland, under a cloudy heaven, and with divided hearts among the travellers.
毫无疑问，无拘无束地行走是一种极大的解脱。也许如果没有这种解脱，以及随之而来的自由和轻松感，我根本无法行走。我刚刚从病床上醒来；我们的处境并没有什么能让我振奋起来去努力。像我们一样，在阴云密布的天空下，穿越苏格兰最荒凉的沙漠，旅行者们的心也各不相同。

For long, we said nothing; marching alongside or one behind the other, each with a set countenance: I, angry and proud, and drawing what strength I had from these two violent and sinful feelings; Alan angry and ashamed, ashamed that he had lost my money, angry that I should take it so ill.
很长一段时间，我们什么也没说；并排或一个在另一个后面行进，每个人都有一种固定的表情：我，愤怒和骄傲，从这两种暴力和罪恶的感觉中汲取我所拥有的力量；艾伦既生气又羞愧，为他丢了我的钱而感到羞耻，为我如此难过而生气。

The thought of a separation ran always the stronger in my mind; and the more I approved of it, the more ashamed I grew of my approval. It would be a fine, handsome, generous thing, indeed, for Alan to turn round and say to me: ‘Go, I am in the most danger, and my company only increases yours.’ But for me to turn to the friend who certainly loved me, and say to him: ‘You are in great danger, I am in but little; your friendship is a burden; go, take your risks and bear your hardships alone ——‘ no, that was impossible; and even to think of it privily to myself, made my cheeks to burn.
分离的念头总是在我的脑海中愈演愈烈。我越是赞同它，我就越为自己的赞同感到羞愧。如果艾伦转过身来对我说：“走吧，我正处于最危险的境地，我的陪伴只会增加你的危险。”这确实是一件美好、英俊、慷慨的事情。你肯定爱我，对他说：‘你处境极大，我处境微乎其微；’你的友谊是一种负担；走吧，一个人去冒险，一个人吃苦——不，那是不可能的；甚至连我自己私下里想到这件事，我的脸颊都发热。

And yet Alan had behaved like a child, and (what is worse) a treacherous child. Wheedling my money from me while I lay half-conscious was scarce better than theft; and yet here he was trudging by my side, without a penny to his name, and by what I could see, quite blithe to sponge upon the money he had driven me to beg. True, I was ready to share it with him; but it made me rage to see him count upon my readiness.
然而艾伦的行为却像个孩子，而且（更糟糕的是）像个奸诈的孩子。在我昏迷不醒的时候从我身上骗走我的钱并不比偷窃好。然而他却在我身边艰难地走来走去，名下身无分文，据我所知，他很高兴地吃着他逼我乞讨的钱。确实，我已经准备好与他分享了。但看到他指望我做好准备，我感到很愤怒。

These were the two things uppermost in my mind; and I could open my mouth upon neither without black ungenerosity. So I did the next worst, and said nothing, nor so much as looked once at my companion, save with the tail of my eye.
这是我最关心的两件事；我无论对哪一个都开口说话，都不会表现出黑色的不慷慨。于是我做了次最坏的事，什么也没说，连看我的同伴一眼都没有，只用眼尾看了一眼。

At last, upon the other side of Loch Errocht, going over a smooth, rushy place, where the walking was easy, he could bear it no longer, and came close to me.
最后，在埃罗赫特湖的另一边，经过一片平坦、险峻、容易行走的地方，他再也无法忍受，走到了我身边。

‘David,’ says he, ‘this is no way for two friends to take a small accident. I have to say that I’m sorry; and so that’s said. And now if you have anything, ye’d better say it.’
“大卫，”他说，“两个朋友不可能遭遇小事故。我不得不说，我很抱歉；就是这样。现在如果你有什么事情，最好说出来。”

‘O,’ says I, ‘I have nothing.’
“哦，”我说，“我什么都没有。”

He seemed disconcerted; at which I was meanly pleased.
他看上去很不安。我对此感到非常高兴。

‘No,’ said he, with rather a trembling voice, ‘but when I say I was to blame?’
“不，”他声音颤抖地说，“但是当我说我应该受到责备时呢？”

‘Why, of course, ye were to blame,’ said I, coolly; ‘and you will bear me out that I have never reproached you.’
“当然，这都是你们的错，”我冷冷地说。 “你会证明我从来没有责备过你。”

‘Never,’ says he; ‘but ye ken very well that ye’ve done worse. Are we to part? Ye said so once before. Are ye to say it again? There’s hills and heather enough between here and the two seas, David; and I will own I’m no very keen to stay where I’m no wanted.’
“从来没有，”他说。 “但你很清楚，你做得更糟。”我们要分手吗？叶老师曾经说过这样的话。你还要再说一遍吗？大卫，这里和两海之间有足够多的山丘和石南花；我承认我不太愿意待在不受欢迎的地方。

This pierced me like a sword, and seemed to lay bare my private disloyalty.
这就像一把利剑刺痛了我，似乎暴露了我个人的不忠。

‘Alan Breck!’ I cried; and then: ‘Do you think I am one to turn my back on you in your chief need? You dursn’t say it to my face. My whole conduct’s there to give the lie to it. It’s true, I fell asleep upon the muir; but that was from weariness, and you do wrong to cast it up to me——‘
“艾伦·布雷克！”我喊道。然后：‘你认为我会在你最需要的时候背弃你吗？你不敢当着我的面说。我的整个行为都是为了揭穿它的谎言。是的，我在缪尔河上睡着了；但那是因为疲倦，你把它扔给我是错误的——”

‘Which is what I never did,’ said Alan.
“这是我从未做过的事，”艾伦说。

‘But aside from that,’ I continued, ‘what have I done that you should even me to dogs by such a supposition? I never yet failed a friend, and it’s not likely I’ll begin with you. There are things between us that I can never forget, even if you can.’
“但除此之外，”我继续说道，“我到底做了什么，你竟然用这样的假设把我当成狗呢？”我还没有让任何一个朋友失望过，而且我也不可能从你开始。我们之间有一些事情我永远无法忘记，即使你可以。”

‘I will only say this to ye, David,’ said Alan, very quietly, ‘that I have long been owing ye my life, and now I owe ye money. Ye should try to make that burden light for me.’
“我只想对你们说，大卫，”艾伦非常平静地说，“我一直欠你们一条命，现在我欠你们钱。”你们应该尽量减轻我的负担。

This ought to have touched me, and in a manner it did, but the wrong manner. I felt I was behaving, badly; and was now not only angry with Alan, but angry with myself in the bargain; and it made me the more cruel.
这应该触动了我，并且以某种方式触动了我，但方式是错误的。我觉得我的行为很糟糕；现在我不仅生艾伦的气，而且还生我自己的气。这让我更加残忍。

‘You asked me to speak,’ said I. ‘Well, then, I will. You own yourself that you have done me a disservice; I have had to swallow an affront: I have never reproached you, I never named the thing till you did. And now you blame me,’ cried I, ‘because I cannae laugh and sing as if I was glad to be affronted. The next thing will be that I’m to go down upon my knees and thank you for it! Ye should think more of others, Alan Breck. If ye thought more of others, ye would perhaps speak less about yourself; and when a friend that likes you very well has passed over an offence without a word, you would be blithe to let it lie, instead of making it a stick to break his back with. By your own way of it, it was you that was to blame; then it shouldnae be you to seek the quarrel.’
“你让我发言，”我说，“好吧，那我就讲吧。”你承认你伤害了我；我不得不忍受侮辱：我从来没有责备过你，在你命名之前我从来没有给这东西命名过。现在你怪我了，”我喊道，“因为我不能笑、唱歌，好像我很高兴被冒犯一样。接下来我要跪下感谢你们！你应该多为别人着想，艾伦·布雷克。如果你多为别人着想，你也许就会少说自己；当一个非常喜欢你的朋友一言不发地原谅了你的过错时，你会很乐意地让它撒谎，而不是把它当作一根棍子来打断他的背。按照你自己的方式，这就是你的错；那么就该由你来找茬了。

‘Aweel,’ said Alan, ‘say nae mair.’
“哎呀，”艾伦说，“说 nae mair。”

And we fell back into our former silence; and came to our journey’s end, and supped, and lay down to sleep, without another word.
我们又回到了以前的沉默；到了旅程的终点​​，吃过晚饭，就躺下睡觉，没有再说什么。

The gillie put us across Loch Rannoch in the dusk of the next day, and gave us his opinion as to our best route. This was to get us up at once into the tops of the mountains: to go round by a circuit, turning the heads of Glen Lyon, Glen Lochay, and Glen Dochart, and come down upon the lowlands by Kippen and the upper waters of the Forth. Alan was little pleased with a route which led us through the country of his blood-foes, the Glenorchy Campbells. He objected that by turning to the east, we should come almost at once among the Athole Stewarts, a race of his own name and lineage, although following a different chief, and come besides by a far easier and swifter way to the place whither we were bound. But the gillie, who was indeed the chief man of Cluny’s scouts, had good reasons to give him on all hands, naming the force of troops in every district, and alleging finally (as well as I could understand) that we should nowhere be so little troubled as in a country of the Campbells.
第二天黄昏，吉利带我们穿过兰诺赫湖，并就我们的最佳路线给出了他的意见。这是为了让我们立即登上山顶：绕一圈，绕过里昂峡谷、洛凯峡谷和多查特峡谷，然后来到基彭的低地和上游水域。向前。艾伦对我们穿过他的宿敌格伦诺奇·坎贝尔家族的国家的路线不太满意。他反对说，如果转向东方，我们几乎会立即来到阿索尔·斯图尔特人中间，这是一个与他同名、有血统的种族，尽管追随的是不同的酋长，并且可以通过一条更容易、更快捷的方式到达我们要去的地方。被束缚。但是吉利确实是克鲁尼侦察兵的首席人，他有充分的理由向他提供所有手上的信息，列出每个地区的部队力量，并最后声称（我能理解）我们不应该如此不像在坎贝尔国家那样有什么麻烦。

Alan gave way at last, but with only half a heart. ‘It’s one of the dowiest countries in Scotland,’ said he. ‘There’s naething there that I ken, but heath, and crows, and Campbells. But I see that ye’re a man of some penetration; and be it as ye please!’
艾伦最终让步了，但只是半心半意。 “这是苏格兰最穷的国家之一，”他说。 “除了石南、乌鸦和坎贝尔之外，我什么也看不见。”但我看出你是一个有一定洞察力的人；随意吧！

We set forth accordingly by this itinerary; and for the best part of three nights travelled on eerie mountains and among the well-heads of wild rivers; often buried in mist, almost continually blown and rained upon, and not once cheered by any glimpse of sunshine. By day, we lay and slept in the drenching heather; by night, incessantly clambered upon break-neck hills and among rude crags. We often wandered; we were often so involved in fog, that we must lie quiet till it lightened. A fire was never to be thought of. Our only food was drammach and a portion of cold meat that we had carried from the Cage; and as for drink, Heaven knows we had no want of water.
我们按照此行程安排；三个晚上的大部分时间都在怪异的山脉和狂野河流的源头之间旅行。经常被埋在雾气中，几乎不断地被风吹雨淋，从来没有看到过一丝阳光。白天，我们躺在湿透的石南丛中睡觉；到了晚上，他们不断地攀爬险峻的山丘和崎岖的峭壁。我们常常徘徊；我们经常被雾气笼罩，必须安静地躺着，直到天色变亮。火灾是从来没有想过的。我们唯一的食物是德拉马赫和一部分从笼子里带来的冷肉。至于饮料，天知道我们并不缺水。

This was a dreadful time, rendered the more dreadful by the gloom of the weather and the country. I was never warm; my teeth chattered in my head; I was troubled with a very sore throat, such as I had on the isle; I had a painful stitch in my side, which never left me; and when I slept in my wet bed, with the rain beating above and the mud oozing below me, it was to live over again in fancy the worst part of my adventures — to see the tower of Shaws lit by lightning, Ransome carried below on the men’s backs, Shuan dying on the round-house floor, or Colin Campbell grasping at the bosom of his coat. From such broken slumbers, I would be aroused in the gloaming, to sit up in the same puddle where I had slept, and sup cold drammach; the rain driving sharp in my face or running down my back in icy trickles; the mist enfolding us like as in a gloomy chamber — or, perhaps, if the wind blew, falling suddenly apart and showing us the gulf of some dark valley where the streams were crying aloud.
这是一段可怕的时光，天气和乡村的阴郁使情况变得更加可怕。我从来不温暖；我的牙齿在脑海里打战；我的喉咙很痛，就像我在岛上时一样。我的身体一侧有一道缝线，很痛，但一直没有消失。当我睡在湿漉漉的床上，头顶下着大雨，身下是泥浆时，我又在幻想中重温了我冒险经历中最糟糕的部分——看到肖斯塔被闪电照亮，兰瑟姆在下面继续前行。男人们的背，舒安死在圆屋地板上，或者科林·坎贝尔抓着他外套的胸口。当我从这样破碎的睡眠中醒来时，我会在暮色中醒来，在我睡过的同一个水坑里坐起来，感到寒冷。雨水猛烈地打在我​​的脸上，或者冰冷的细流从我的背上流下来；雾气笼罩着我们，就像在阴暗的房间里一样——或者，也许，如果风吹过，雾气会突然散开，向我们展示出某个黑暗山谷的深渊，那里的溪流在大声哭泣。

The sound of an infinite number of rivers came up from all round. In this steady rain the springs of the mountain were broken up; every glen gushed water like a cistern; every stream was in high spate, and had filled and overflowed its channel. During our night tramps, it was solemn to hear the voice of them below in the valleys, now booming like thunder, now with an angry cry. I could well understand the story of the Water Kelpie, that demon of the streams, who is fabled to keep wailing and roaring at the ford until the coming of the doomed traveller. Alan I saw believed it, or half believed it; and when the cry of the river rose more than usually sharp, I was little surprised (though, of course, I would still be shocked) to see him cross himself in the manner of the Catholics.
无数河流的声音从四面八方传来。这场连绵不断的雨，山上的泉水被冲垮了。每个峡谷都像蓄水池一样涌出水；每条溪流都水流汹涌，河道已满溢。在我们的夜间徒步旅行中，在下面的山谷中听到他们的声音是庄严的，有时像雷鸣般隆隆作响，有时又带着愤怒的叫喊。我很能理解水凯尔比的故事，它是溪流中的恶魔，传说它会在浅滩不断哀号和咆哮，直到注定的旅行者到来。我看到艾伦相信了，或者半相信了；当河水的哭声比平时更加​​尖锐时，我对看到他以天主教徒的方式画十字并不感到惊讶（当然，我仍然会感到震惊）。

During all these horrid wanderings we had no familiarity, scarcely even that of speech. The truth is that I was sickening for my grave, which is my best excuse. But besides that I was of an unforgiving disposition from my birth, slow to take offence, slower to forget it, and now incensed both against my companion and myself. For the best part of two days he was unweariedly kind; silent, indeed, but always ready to help, and always hoping (as I could very well see) that my displeasure would blow by. For the same length of time I stayed in myself, nursing my anger, roughly refusing his services, and passing him over with my eyes as if he had been a bush or a stone.
在所有这些可怕的徘徊中，我们没有任何熟悉感，甚至连言语都没有。事实上，我对坟墓感到恶心，这是我最好的借口。但除此之外，我从出生起就具有一种不宽容的性格，很容易生气，也很容易忘记，现在对我的同伴和我自己都感到愤怒。在这两天的大部分时间里，他都表现得不知疲倦地友善。确实，我很沉默，但总是随时准备提供帮助，并且总是希望（正如我很清楚地看到的那样）我的不满会消失。在同样长的时间里，我呆在自己的世界里，压抑着自己的愤怒，粗暴地拒绝了他的服务，并用目光掠过他，仿佛他是一棵灌木或一块石头。

The second night, or rather the peep of the third day, found us upon a very open hill, so that we could not follow our usual plan and lie down immediately to eat and sleep. Before we had reached a place of shelter, the grey had come pretty clear, for though it still rained, the clouds ran higher; and Alan, looking in my face, showed some marks of concern.
第二天晚上，或者更确切地说是第三天的一夜，我们发现我们来到了一座非常开阔的山上，因此我们无法按照通常的计划立即躺下吃饭和睡觉。在我们到达避难所之前，天色已经相当晴朗了，因为虽然还在下雨，但云层却升得更高了。艾伦看着我的脸，露出了一些关切的表情。

‘Ye had better let me take your pack,’ said he, for perhaps the ninth time since we had parted from the scout beside Loch Rannoch.
“你们最好让我拿走你们的背包，”他说道，这也许是我们在兰诺赫湖畔与侦察兵分开后第九次。

‘I do very well, I thank you,’ said I, as cold as ice.
“我做得很好，谢谢你。”我冷若冰霜地说。

Alan flushed darkly. ‘I’ll not offer it again,’ he said. ‘I’m not a patient man, David.’
艾伦脸色暗红。 “我不会再提供它了，”他说。 “我不是一个有耐心的人，大卫。”

‘I never said you were,’ said I, which was exactly the rude, silly speech of a boy of ten.
“我从来没有说过你是，”我说，这完全是一个十岁男孩的粗鲁、愚蠢的言论。

Alan made no answer at the time, but his conduct answered for him. Henceforth, it is to be thought, he quite forgave himself for the affair at Cluny’s; cocked his hat again, walked jauntily, whistled airs, and looked at me upon one side with a provoking smile.
艾伦当时没有回答，但他的行为已经回答了他。从此以后，人们认为，他已经完全原谅了自己在克鲁尼的事情。他再次歪起帽子，快活地走着，吹着口哨，一边用挑衅的微笑看着我。

The third night we were to pass through the western end of the country of Balquhidder. It came clear and cold, with a touch in the air like frost, and a northerly wind that blew the clouds away and made the stars bright. The streams were full, of course, and still made a great noise among the hills; but I observed that Alan thought no more upon the Kelpie, and was in high good spirits. As for me, the change of weather came too late; I had lain in the mire so long that (as the Bible has it) my very clothes ‘abhorred me.’ I was dead weary, deadly sick and full of pains and shiverings; the chill of the wind went through me, and the sound of it confused my ears. In this poor state I had to bear from my companion something in the nature of a persecution. He spoke a good deal, and never without a taunt. ‘Whig’ was the best name he had to give me. ‘Here,’ he would say, ‘here’s a dub for ye to jump, my Whiggie! I ken you’re a fine jumper!’ And so on; all the time with a gibing voice and face.
第三天晚上，我们将穿过巴尔奎德国家的西端。天气晴朗而寒冷，空气中有一丝如霜的味道，北风吹散了云层，让星星变得明亮。当然，溪流已经满了，但仍然在山间发出很大的噪音。但我发现艾伦不再想凯尔比，而且精神抖擞。对我来说，天气的变化来得太晚了；我在泥潭里躺了太久，（正如圣经所说）我的衣服都“令我厌恶”。我疲惫不堪，病入膏肓，充满痛苦和颤抖；寒风吹过我的全身，风的声音模糊了我的耳朵。在这种可怜的情况下，我不得不从我的同伴那里承受某种迫害性质的东西。他说了很多话，而且总是带着嘲讽。 “辉格党”是他给我起的最好的名字。 “这里，”他会说，“这是一个让你跳的配音，我的辉吉！我相信你跳得很好！”等等；总是带着嘲笑的声音和表情。

I knew it was my own doing, and no one else’s; but I was too miserable to repent. I felt I could drag myself but little farther; pretty soon, I must lie down and die on these wet mountains like a sheep or a fox, and my bones must whiten there like the bones of a beast. My head was light perhaps; but I began to love the prospect, I began to glory in the thought of such a death, alone in the desert, with the wild eagles besieging my last moments. Alan would repent then, I thought; he would remember, when I was dead, how much he owed me, and the remembrance would be torture. So I went like a sick, silly, and bad-hearted schoolboy, feeding my anger against a fellow-man, when I would have been better on my knees, crying on God for mercy. And at each of Alan’s taunts, I hugged myself. ‘Ah!’ thinks I to myself, ‘I have a better taunt in readiness; when I lie down and die, you will feel it like a buffet in your face; ah, what a revenge! ah, how you will regret your ingratitude and cruelty!’
我知道这是我自己造成的，不是别人造成的；但我太痛苦了，无法悔改。我觉得我只能拖得更远了。很快，我就必须像羊或狐狸一样躺在这些潮湿的山上死去，我的骨头必须在那里像野兽的骨头一样变白。也许我的头脑很轻松；但我开始喜欢这个前景，我开始为这样的死亡而感到自豪，独自在沙漠中，野鹰围攻我的最后时刻。我想艾伦会后悔的；当我死后，他会记得他欠我多少，而这种回忆将是一种折磨。于是，我就像一个生病、愚蠢、心肠不好的小学生一样，向同胞发怒，而我本可以跪下来向上帝呼求怜悯。每当艾伦嘲笑我时，我都会拥抱自己。 “啊！”我心里想，“我已经准备好了更好的嘲讽；”当我躺下死去时，你会感觉就像是一顿自助餐打在你脸上；啊，多么报复啊！啊，你会为你的忘恩负义和残忍感到多么后悔！

All the while, I was growing worse and worse. Once I had fallen, my leg simply doubling under me, and this had struck Alan for the moment; but I was afoot so briskly, and set off again with such a natural manner, that he soon forgot the incident. Flushes of heat went over me, and then spasms of shuddering. The stitch in my side was hardly bearable. At last I began to feel that I could trail myself no farther: and with that, there came on me all at once the wish to have it out with Alan, let my anger blaze, and be done with my life in a more sudden manner. He had just called me ‘Whig.’ I stopped.
一直以来，我的情况都变得越来越糟。一旦我摔倒了，我的腿就在我身下折叠起来，这让艾伦一时感到震惊；但我的脚步如此轻快，又如此自然地再次出发，以至于他很快就忘记了这件事。我全身发热，然后一阵颤抖。我身边的缝线几乎难以忍受。最后，我开始觉得自己已经不能再拖下去了：于是，我突然想要和艾伦一决胜负，让我的愤怒燃烧起来，以一种更突然的方式结束我的生命。 。他刚刚叫我“辉格党”。我停了下来。

‘Mr. Stewart,’ said I, in a voice that quivered like a fiddle-string, ‘you are older than I am, and should know your manners. Do you think it either very wise or very witty to cast my politics in my teeth? I thought, where folk differed, it was the part of gentlemen to differ civilly; and if I did not, I may tell you I could find a better taunt than some of yours.’
'先生。斯图尔特，”我用像小提琴弦一样颤抖的声音说道，“你比我年长，应该知道你的举止。你认为把我的政治观点放在牙齿上是非常明智还是非常机智吗？我以为，人与人之间有分歧，君子就应该以文明的方式表达分歧。如果我没有，我可以告诉你，我可以找到比你们的一些人更好的嘲讽。

Alan had stopped opposite to me, his hat cocked, his hands in his breeches pockets, his head a little on one side. He listened, smiling evilly, as I could see by the starlight; and when I had done he began to whistle a Jacobite air. It was the air made in mockery of General Cope’s defeat at Preston Pans:
艾伦在我对面停下来，他的帽子翘起来，双手插在马裤口袋里，头稍稍偏向一侧。他听着，脸上露出邪恶的微笑，正如我在星光下看到的那样。当我完成后，他开始吹起雅各布派的口哨。这是嘲笑科普将军在普雷斯顿潘斯战败时发出的声音：

‘Hey, Johnnie Cope, are ye waukin’ yet?
“嘿，约翰尼·科普，你醒了吗？”

And are your drums a-beatin’ yet?’
你的鼓敲起来了吗？

And it came in my mind that Alan, on the day of that battle, had been engaged upon the royal side.
我想到，在那场战斗的那天，艾伦是站在王室一边的。

‘Why do ye take that air, Mr. Stewart?’ said I. ‘Is that to remind me you have been beaten on both sides?’
“斯图尔特先生，你为什么露出那样的表情？”我说道，“这是为了提醒我你两面都被打败了吗？”

The air stopped on Alan’s lips. ‘David!’ said he.
空气停在了艾伦的唇边。 “大卫！”他说。

‘But it’s time these manners ceased,’ I continued; ‘and I mean you shall henceforth speak civilly of my King and my good friends the Campbells.’
“但现在是停止这些礼仪的时候了，”我继续说道。 “我的意思是，从今以后，你们要以礼貌的方式谈论我的国王和我的好朋友坎贝尔夫妇。”

‘I am a Stewart —‘ began Alan.
“我是斯图尔特家族的人——”艾伦说道。

‘O!’ says I, ‘I ken ye bear a king’s name. But you are to remember, since I have been in the Highlands, I have seen a good many of those that bear it; and the best I can say of them is this, that they would be none the worse of washing.’
“哦！”我说道，“我相信你们拥有国王的名字。”但你要记住，自从我来到高地以来，我见过很多持有它的人；对于它们，我能说的最好的话就是，它们不会因为洗涤而变得更糟糕。

‘Do you know that you insult me?’ said Alan, very low.
“你知道你在侮辱我吗？”艾伦声音很低。

‘I am sorry for that,’ said I, ‘for I am not done; and if you distaste the sermon, I doubt the pirliecue[29] will please you as little. You have been chased in the field by the grown men of my party; it seems a poor kind of pleasure to out-face a boy. Both the Campbells and the Whigs have beaten you; you have run before them like a hare. It behoves you to speak of them as of your betters.’
“我对此感到抱歉，”我说，“因为我还没有完成；如果你不喜欢布道，我怀疑 pirliecue[29] 也不会让你满意。你在田野里被我队伍中的成年男子追赶；打败一个男孩似乎是一种很糟糕的乐趣。坎贝尔家族和辉格党都打败了你；你在他们面前像兔子一样奔跑。你应该把他们当作比你更好的人来谈论。

[29] A second sermon.
[29] 第二次布道。

Alan stood quite still, the tails of his great-coat clapping behind him in the wind.
艾伦一动不动地站着，大衣的下摆在身后的风中拍打着。

‘This is a pity’ he said at last. ‘There are things said that cannot be passed over.’
“这很遗憾，”他最后说道。 “有些事情是不能忽视的。”

‘I never asked you to,’ said I. ‘I am as ready as yourself.’
“我从来没有要求过你，”我说，“我和你一样准备好了。”

‘Ready?’ said he.
“准备好了吗？”他说。

‘Ready,’ I repeated. ‘I am no blower and boaster like some that I could name. Come on!’ And drawing my sword, I fell on guard as Alan himself had taught me.
“准备好了，”我重复道。 “我不像那些我能说出名字的人那样吹牛和自吹自擂。来吧！’我拔出剑，按照艾伦教我的那样保持警惕。

‘David!’ he cried . ‘Are ye daft? I cannae draw upon ye, David. It’s fair murder.’
“大卫！”他喊道。 ‘你们是傻子吗？我无法向你求助，大卫。这是公平的谋杀。

‘That was your look-out when you insulted me,’ said I.
“当你侮辱我时，那是你的警惕，”我说。

‘It’s the truth!’ cried Alan, and he stood for a moment, wringing his mouth in his hand like a man in sore perplexity. ‘It’s the bare truth,’ he said, and drew his sword. But before I could touch his blade with mine, he had thrown it from him and fallen to the ground. ‘Na, na,’ he kept saying, ‘na, na — I cannae, I cannae.’
“这是事实！”艾伦喊道，他站了一会儿，用手拧着嘴，就像一个极度困惑的人。 “这是赤裸裸的事实，”他说着，拔出了剑。但在我用我的剑触碰他的剑之前，他已经把剑从身上扔了出去，倒在了地上。 “不，不，”他不停地说，“不，不——我不能，我不能。”

At this the last of my anger oozed all out of me; and I found myself only sick, and sorry, and blank, and wondering at myself. I would have given the world to take back what I had said; but a word once spoken, who can recapture it? I minded me of all Alan’s kindness and courage in the past, how he had helped and cheered and borne with me in our evil days; and then recalled my own insults, and saw that I had lost for ever that doughty friend. At the same time, the sickness that hung upon me seemed to redouble, and the pang in my side was like a sword for sharpness. I thought I must have swooned where I stood.
至此，我的最后一丝怒火全消了。我发现自己只是感到恶心、抱歉、茫然、对自己感到疑惑。我愿意让全世界收回我说过的话；但一句话一旦说出，谁又能收回呢？我想起了艾伦过去的善良和勇气，在我们困难的日子里他是如何帮助、鼓励和包容我的。然后回想起我自己受到的侮辱，发现我永远失去了那个勇敢的朋友。与此同时，笼罩在我身上的病痛似乎又加倍了，我肋旁的剧痛就像一把锋利的利剑。我想我一定是当场晕倒了。

This it was that gave me a thought. No apology could blot out what I had said; it was needless to think of one, none could cover the offence; but where an apology was vain, a mere cry for help might bring Alan back to my side. I put my pride away from me. ‘Alan!’ I said; ‘if ye cannae help me, I must just die here.’
这给了我一个想法。任何道歉都无法掩盖我所说的话；不用想，也没有人能够掩盖这种罪行。但如果道歉是徒劳的，仅仅呼救就可能让艾伦回到我身边。我把我的骄傲远离了我。 “艾伦！”我说道。 “如果你们不能帮助我，我就只能死在这里。”

He started up sitting, and looked at me.
他开始坐起来，看着我。

‘It’s true,’ said I. ‘I’m by with it. O, let me get into the bield of a house — I’ll can die there easier.’ I had no need to pretend; whether I chose or not, I spoke in a weeping voice that would have melted a heart of stone.
“是的，”我说，“我同意了。”哦，让我进入一所房子的范围——我会更容易死在那里。”我不需要假装；我不需要假装。不管我是否愿意，我的说话声都是带着哭泣的声音，那声音足以融化一颗铁石心肠。

‘Can ye walk?’ asked Alan.
“你能走路吗？”艾伦问。

‘No,’ said I, ‘not without help. This last hour my legs have been fainting under me; I’ve a stitch in my side like a red-hot iron; I cannae breathe right. If I die, ye’ll can forgive me, Alan? In my heart, I liked ye fine — even when I was the angriest.’
“不，”我说，“没有帮助就不行。”在过去的一个小时里，我的双腿已经发软了。我的身侧有一道缝线，就像烧红的熨斗一样；我无法正常呼吸。如果我死了，你会原谅我吗，艾伦？在我心里，我很喜欢你——即使是在我最生气的时候。

‘Wheesht, wheesht!’ cried Alan. ‘Dinna say that! David man, ye ken —‘ He shut his mouth upon a sob. ‘Let me get my arm about ye,’ he continued; ‘that’s the way! Now lean upon me hard. Gude kens where there’s a house! We’re in Balwhidder, too; there should be no want of houses, no, nor friends’ houses here. Do ye gang easier so, Davie?’
“呼呼，呼呼！”艾伦叫道。 ‘迪娜这么说！大卫，你知道——”他抽泣着闭上了嘴。 “让我用手臂搂住你，”他继续说道。 '就是这个方法！现在用力靠在我身上。古德肯斯哪里有房子！我们也在鲍惠德（Balwhidder）。这里不应该缺少房子，不，也不缺少朋友的房子。你们这样容易吗，戴维？

‘Ay’ said I, ‘I can be doing this way;’ and I pressed his arm with my hand.
“是的，”我说，“我可以这样做；”然后我用手按住了他的手臂。

Again he came near sobbing. ‘Davie,’ said he, ‘I’m no a right man at all; I have neither sense nor kindness; I could nae remember ye were just a bairn, I couldnae see ye were dying on your feet; Davie, ye’ll have to try and forgive me.’
他再次几乎要抽泣了。 “戴维，”他说，“我根本不是一个好人；我既没有理智，也没有仁慈；我不记得你只是一个婴儿，我不知道你快要死了；戴维，你必须尝试原谅我。

‘O man, let’s say no more about it!’ said I. ‘We’re neither one of us to mend the other — that’s the truth! We must just bear and forbear, man Alan. O, but my stitch is sore! Is there nae house?’
“哦，伙计，我们别再说了！”我说，“我们谁都不是要修补对方的——这就是事实！”我们必须忍耐，艾伦。哦，但是我的缝线很痛！有房子吗？

‘I’ll find a house to ye, David,’ he said, stoutly. ‘We’ll follow down the burn, where there’s bound to be houses. My poor man, will ye no be better on my back?’
“我会为你找到一所房子，大卫，”他坚定地说。 “我们会沿着火势往下走，那里肯定有房子。”我可怜的人，你背着我的背不会好一点吗？

‘O, Alan,’ says I, ‘and me a good twelve inches taller?’
“哦，艾伦，”我说，“我高了整整十二英寸吗？”

‘Ye’re no such a thing,’ cried Alan, with a start. ‘There may be a trifling matter of an inch or two; I’m no saying I’m just exactly what ye would call a tall man, whatever; and I dare say,’ he added, his voice tailing off in a laughable manner, ‘now when I come to think of it, I dare say ye’ll be just about right. Ay, it’ll be a foot, or near hand; or may be even mair!’
“你们不是这样的人，”艾伦吃了一惊，喊道。 ‘可能有一两英寸的小事；我并不是说我就是你们所谓的高个子，无论如何；我敢说，”他补充道，他的声音以一种可笑的方式逐渐减弱，“现在当我想到这一点时，我敢说你是对的。嗯，是一只脚，或者近手；或者甚至可能是女士！

It was sweet and laughable to hear Alan eat his words up in the fear of some fresh quarrel. I could have laughed, had not my stitch caught me so hard; but if I had laughed, I think I must have wept too.
听到艾伦因害怕发生新的争吵而吞吞吐吐，真是又甜蜜又可笑。要不是我的缝线扎得太紧，我可能会笑。但如果我笑了，我想我也一定哭了。

‘Alan,’ cried I, ‘what makes ye so good to me? What makes ye care for such a thankless fellow?’
“艾伦，”我喊道，“你为什么对我这么好？是什么让你们关心这样一个忘恩负义的家伙？

‘Deed, and I don’t, know’ said Alan. ‘For just precisely what I thought I liked about ye, was that ye never quarrelled: — and now I like ye better!’
“确实如此，但我不知道，”艾伦说。 “我认为我喜欢你们的正是因为你们从不吵架：——现在我更喜欢你们了！”

CHAPTER XXV
第二十五章


IN BALQUHIDDER
在巴尔奎德

At the door of the first house we came to, Alan knocked, which was of no very safe enterprise in such a part of the Highlands as the Braes of Balquhidder. No great clan held rule there; it was filled and disputed by small septs, and broken remnants, and what they call ‘chiefless folk,’ driven into the wild country about the springs of Forth and Teith by the advance of the Campbells. Here were Stewarts and Maclarens, which came to the same thing, for the Maclarens followed Alan’s chief in war, and made but one clan with Appin. Here, too, were many of that old, proscribed, nameless, red-handed clan of the Macgregors. They had always been ill-considered, and now worse than ever, having credit with no side or party in the whole country of Scotland. Their chief, Macgregor of Macgregor, was in exile; the more immediate leader of that part of them about Balquhidder, James More, Rob Roy’s eldest son, lay waiting his trial in Edinburgh Castle; they were in ill-blood with Highlander and Lowlander, with the Grahames, the Maclarens, and the Stewarts; and Alan, who took up the quarrel of any friend, however distant, was extremely wishful to avoid them.
在我们来到的第一所房子的门前，艾伦敲了敲门，在巴尔奎德布雷斯这样的高地地区，这并不是一件很安全的事情。那里没有任何大氏族统治。这里充满了小圣堂和残破的残骸，以及他们所谓的“无首领的民众”，这些人在坎贝尔人的进攻下被驱赶到福斯和泰斯泉水周围的荒野中，充满了争议。斯图尔特家族和麦克拉伦家族的结局是一样的，因为麦克拉伦家族在战争中追随艾伦的首领，只与阿平结为一个氏族。这里也有许多古老的、被禁止的、无名的、赤手空拳的麦克格雷戈氏族。他们一向考虑不周，而且现在比以往任何时候都更糟糕，在整个苏格兰国家中没有任何一方或政党对他们有信用。他们的首领，麦克格雷格的麦克格雷格，已被流放。他们中关于巴尔奎德的更直接的领导人是罗布·罗伊的长子詹姆斯·莫尔，他正在爱丁堡城堡等待审判。他们与高地人和低地人、格雷厄姆家族、麦克拉伦家族和斯图尔特家族不和。艾伦会处理任何朋友的争吵，无论多么疏远，他都非常希望避开他们。

Chance served us very well; for it was a household of Maclarens that we found, where Alan was not only welcome for his name’s sake but known by reputation. Here then I was got to bed without delay, and a doctor fetched, who found me in a sorry plight. But whether because he was a very good doctor, or I a very young, strong man, I lay bedridden for no more than a week, and before a month I was able to take the road again with a good heart.
机会对我们很有帮助。因为我们发现的是一个麦克拉伦家族，艾伦不仅因为他的名字而受到欢迎，而且还享有盛誉。然后我立刻上床睡觉，医生也来了，他发现我处境悲惨。但无论是因为他是一位非常好的医生，还是因为我是一个非常年轻、强壮的人，我卧床不起不到一个星期，不到一个月我就能够怀着一颗善良的心再次上路了。

All this time Alan would not leave me though I often pressed him, and indeed his foolhardiness in staying was a common subject of outcry with the two or three friends that were let into the secret. He hid by day in a hole of the braes under a little wood; and at night, when the coast was clear, would come into the house to visit me. I need not say if I was pleased to see him; Mrs. Maclaren, our hostess, thought nothing good enough for such a guest; and as Duncan Dhu (which was the name of our host) had a pair of pipes in his house, and was much of a lover of music, this time of my recovery was quite a festival, and we commonly turned night into day.
一直以来，艾伦都不肯离开我，尽管我经常催促他，事实上，他留下来的鲁莽行为是被透露秘密的两三个朋友共同抗议的话题。白天，他躲在小树林下的一个洞里。晚上，当海岸晴朗时，他就会进屋来看我。不用说我是否很高兴见到他；我已经知道了。我们的女主人麦克拉伦夫人认为没有什么比接待这样的客人更好的了。由于邓肯·杜（Duncan Dhu）（我们主人的名字）家里有一对管子，并且非常热爱音乐，所以我康复的这段时间简直就是一个节日，我们通常把黑夜变成白天。

The soldiers let us be; although once a party of two companies and some dragoons went by in the bottom of the valley, where I could see them through the window as I lay in bed. What was much more astonishing, no magistrate came near me, and there was no question put of whence I came or whither I was going; and in that time of excitement, I was as free of all inquiry as though I had lain in a desert. Yet my presence was known before I left to all the people in Balquhidder and the adjacent parts; many coming about the house on visits and these (after the custom of the country) spreading the news among their neighbours. The bills, too, had now been printed. There was one pinned near the foot of my bed, where I could read my own not very flattering portrait and, in larger characters, the amount of the blood money that had been set upon my life. Duncan Dhu and the rest that knew that I had come there in Alan’s company, could have entertained no doubt of who I was; and many others must have had their guess. For though I had changed my clothes, I could not change my age or person; and Lowland boys of eighteen were not so rife in these parts of the world, and above all about that time, that they could fail to put one thing with another, and connect me with the bill. So it was, at least. Other folk keep a secret among two or three near friends, and somehow it leaks out; but among these clansmen, it is told to a whole countryside, and they will keep it for a century.
士兵们让我们去吧；尽管有一次，两个连队和一些龙骑兵在山谷底部经过，我躺在床上时可以透过窗户看到他们。更令人惊讶的是，没有任何地方法官靠近我，也没有人问我从哪里来，要到哪里去。在那个兴奋的时刻，我就像躺在沙漠里一样不受任何询问。然而，在我离开之前，巴尔奎德和邻近地区的所有人都知道了我的存在。许多人来到这所房子参观，并且这些人（按照该国的习俗）在邻居中传播消息。账单现在也已经印出来了。我的床脚附近钉着一张，在那里我可以读到自己那张不太讨人喜欢的肖像，还有大字写着我的命的血钱数额。邓肯·杜（Duncan Dhu）和其他知道我和艾伦一起来到这里的人，对我是谁毫无疑问。其他许多人一定也有他们的猜测。因为虽然我换了衣服，但我无法改变我的年龄或性格；十八岁的低地男孩在世界这些地方，尤其是在那个时候，还没有那么普遍，以至于他们无法将一件事与另一件事放在一起，并将我与账单联系起来。至少是这样。另一些人在两三个亲密的朋友之间保守秘密，不知何故泄露出去；但在这些族人中，它被告知整个乡村，他们将保留它一个世纪。

There was but one thing happened worth narrating; and that is the visit I had of Robin Oig, one of the sons of the notorious Rob Roy. He was sought upon all sides on a charge of carrying a young woman from Balfron and marrying her (as was alleged) by force; yet he stepped about Balquhidder like a gentleman in his own walled policy. It was he who had shot James Maclaren at the plough stilts, a quarrel never satisfied; yet he walked into the house of his blood enemies as a rider[30] might into a public inn.
只有一件事值得一说：这就是我对罗宾·奥伊格的访问，他是臭名昭著的罗布·罗伊的儿子之一。他因被控从巴尔夫隆带走一名年轻女子并强行娶她为妻（据称）而受到各方通缉。然而，他在巴尔奎德周围行走时却像一位绅士，遵循着自己的封闭政策。正是他在犁高跷上射杀了詹姆斯·麦克拉伦，这场争吵从未平息。然而他却走进了他血仇的房子，就像骑手[30]走进一家公共旅馆一样。

[30]Commercial traveller.
[30]商业旅行者。

Duncan had time to pass me word of who it was; and we looked at one another in concern. You should understand, it was then close upon the time of Alan’s coming; the two were little likely to agree; and yet if we sent word or sought to make a signal, it was sure to arouse suspicion in a man under so dark a cloud as the Macgregor.
邓肯有时间告诉我那人是谁。我们关切地看着对方。你应该明白，那时距离艾伦来的时间已经很近了；两人不太可能达成一致。然而，如果我们发出消息或试图发出信号，肯定会引起像麦克格雷格号这样阴云密布的人的怀疑。

He came in with a great show of civility, but like a man among inferiors; took off his bonnet to Mrs. Maclaren, but clapped it on his head again to speak to Duncan; and leaving thus set himself (as he would have thought) in a proper light, came to my bedside and bowed.
他进来时表现得非常有礼貌，但就像一个下等人一样。他向麦克拉伦夫人脱下帽子，但又把它戴在头上，对邓肯说话。然后他就这样离开了（正如他所想的那样），来到我的床边鞠了一躬。

‘I am given to know, sir,’ says he, ‘that your name is Balfour.’
“我知道，先生，”他说，“您的名字叫贝尔福。”

‘They call me David Balfour,’ said I, ‘at your service.’
“他们叫我大卫·贝尔福，”我说，“为您服务。”

‘I would give ye my name in return, sir’ he replied, ‘but it’s one somewhat blown upon of late days; and it’ll perhaps suffice if I tell ye that I am own brother to James More Drummond or Macgregor, of whom ye will scarce have failed to hear.’
“作为回报，我愿意告诉你我的名字，先生，”他回答道，“但是最近这个名字有点被吹捧了；”如果我告诉你们，我是詹姆斯·莫尔·德拉蒙德或麦克格雷格的亲兄弟，也许就足够了，你们几乎不会没有听说过他们。

‘No, sir,’ said I, a little alarmed; ‘nor yet of your father, Macgregor-Campbell.’ And I sat up and bowed in bed; for I thought best to compliment him, in case he was proud of having had an outlaw to his father.
“不，先生，”我有点惊慌地说。 “也不是你的父亲，麦克格雷格-坎贝尔。”我坐起来，在床上鞠了一躬。因为我认为最好赞美他，以免他为自己的父亲有一个亡命之徒而感到自豪。

He bowed in return. ‘But what I am come to say, sir,’ he went on, ‘is this. In the year ‘45, my brother raised a part of the ‘Gregara’ and marched six companies to strike a stroke for the good side; and the surgeon that marched with our clan and cured my brother’s leg when it was broken in the brush at Preston Pans, was a gentleman of the same name precisely as yourself. He was brother to Balfour of Baith; and if you are in any reasonable degree of nearness one of that gentleman’s kin, I have come to put myself and my people at your command.’
他鞠躬回应。 “但我来要说的是，先生，”他继续说道，“是这样的。” 45年，我哥哥召集了一部分“格雷加拉”，率领六个连向好的一方发起进攻；和我们家族一起行进并治愈了我兄弟在普雷斯顿潘斯的灌木丛中折断的腿的外科医生，是一位与你同名的绅士。他是拜斯的贝尔福的兄弟。如果您与这位先生的亲戚有任何合理程度的亲近，我来这里是为了让我自己和我的人民听从您的指挥。

You are to remember that I knew no more of my descent than any cadger’s dog; my uncle, to be sure, had prated of some of our high connections, but nothing to the present purpose; and there was nothing left me but that bitter disgrace of owning that I could not tell.
你要记住，我对自己的血统的了解并不比任何捕猎者的狗更多。可以肯定的是，我的叔叔曾喋喋不休地谈论过我们的一些高级关系，但与目前的目的无关。除了我无法诉说的拥有的痛苦耻辱之外，我什么也没有留下。

Robin told me shortly he was sorry he had put himself about, turned his back upon me without a sign of salutation, and as he went towards the door, I could hear him telling Duncan that I was ‘only some kinless loon that didn’t know his own father.’ Angry as I was at these words, and ashamed of my own ignorance, I could scarce keep from smiling that a man who was under the lash of the law (and was indeed hanged some three years later) should be so nice as to the descent of his acquaintances.
罗宾很快告诉我，他很抱歉自己的行为，没有向我致敬，就背对着我，当他走向门口时，我能听到他告诉邓肯，我“只是一个没有亲缘关系的笨蛋”。尽管我对这些话感到愤怒，并为自己的无知感到羞耻，但我还是忍不住微笑，因为一个受到法律鞭笞的人（大约三年后确实被绞死了）应该被判死刑。对他的熟人的血统真是太好了。

Just in the door, he met Alan coming in; and the two drew back and looked at each other like strange dogs. They were neither of them big men, but they seemed fairly to swell out with pride. Each wore a sword, and by a movement of his haunch, thrust clear the hilt of it, so that it might be the more readily grasped and the blade drawn.
刚进门，就遇见了进来的艾伦；两人后退了一步，像陌生的狗一样互相看着对方。他们都不是大个子，但他们似乎都充满了骄傲。每个人都拿着一把剑，通过腰部的动作，将剑柄推开，这样就可以更容易地抓住剑并拔出剑刃。

‘Mr. Stewart, I am thinking,’ says Robin.
'先生。斯图尔特，我在想，”罗宾说。

‘Troth, Mr. Macgregor, it’s not a name to be ashamed of,’ answered Alan.
“特罗斯，麦克格雷格先生，这不是一个值得羞耻的名字，”艾伦回答道。

‘I did not know ye were in my country, sir,’ says Robin.
“我不知道你在我的国家，先生，”罗宾说。

‘It sticks in my mind that I am in the country of my friends the Maclarens,’ says Alan.
艾伦说：“我始终铭记在心的是，我身处我的朋友麦克拉伦家族的国家。”

‘That’s a kittle point,’ returned the other. ‘There may be two words to say to that. But I think I will have heard that you are a man of your sword?’
“这是一个棘手的问题，”另一个人回答道。 “对此可能有两句话要说。但我想我会听说你是一个剑客？

‘Unless ye were born deaf, Mr. Macgregor, ye will have heard a good deal more than that,’ says Alan. ‘I am not the only man that can draw steel in Appin; and when my kinsman and captain, Ardshiel, had a talk with a gentleman of your name, not so many years back, I could never hear that the Macgregor had the best of it.’
“麦克格雷格先生，除非你们生来就是聋子，否则你们听到的远不止这些，”艾伦说。 “我不是阿平唯一能炼钢的人；就在不久前，当我的亲戚兼船长阿德希尔与一位名叫你的绅士交谈时，我从未听说过麦克格雷格号拥有最好的东西。

‘Do ye mean my father, sir?’ says Robin.
“您是说我的父亲吗，先生？”罗宾说。

‘Well, I wouldnae wonder,’ said Alan. ‘The gentleman I have in my mind had the ill-taste to clap Campbell to his name.’
“好吧，我不想知道，”艾伦说。 “我心目中的那位绅士，竟然把坎贝尔的名誉归为自己的品位。”

‘My father was an old man,’ returned Robin.
“我父亲是个老人，”罗宾回答道。

‘The match was unequal. You and me would make a better pair, sir.’
‘这场比赛是不平等的。你和我会成为更好的搭档，先生。

‘I was thinking that,’ said Alan.
“我就是这么想的，”艾伦说。

I was half out of bed, and Duncan had been hanging at the elbow of these fighting cocks, ready to intervene upon the least occasion. But when that word was uttered, it was a case of now or never; and Duncan, with something of a white face to be sure, thrust himself between.
我半身起床，邓肯一直挂在这些斗鸡的肘部，准备在最轻微的情况下进行干预。但当这句话说出来的时候，机不可失，时不再来。邓肯则插在中间，脸色肯定有些苍白。

‘Gentlemen,’ said he, ‘I will have been thinking of a very different matter, whateffer. Here are my pipes, and here are you two gentlemen who are baith acclaimed pipers. It’s an auld dispute which one of ye’s the best. Here will be a braw chance to settle it.’
“先生们，”他说，“无论如何，我会考虑一件完全不同的事情。”这是我的风笛，这是你们两位备受赞誉的风笛手。你们谁是最好的，这是一场激烈的争论。这将是一个解决问题的绝佳机会。

‘Why, sir,’ said Alan, still addressing Robin, from whom indeed he had not so much as shifted his eyes, nor yet Robin from him, ‘why, sir,’ says Alan, ‘I think I will have heard some sough[31] of the sort. Have ye music, as folk say? Are ye a bit of a piper?’
“为什么，先生，”艾伦仍然对着罗宾说话，他的目光确实没有从罗宾身上移开，罗宾也没有离开他，“为什么，先生，”艾伦说，“我想我会听到一些呼喊声。” [31]之类的。正如民间所说，你们有音乐吗？你是个吹笛人吗？

[31]Rumour.
[31]谣言。

‘I can pipe like a Macrimmon!’ cries Robin.
“我可以像马克林蒙一样吹笛！”罗宾喊道。

‘And that is a very bold word,’ quoth Alan.
“这是一个非常大胆的词，”艾伦说。

‘I have made bolder words good before now,’ returned Robin, ‘and that against better adversaries.’
“我以前曾说过更大胆的话，”罗宾回答道，“而且是针对更强大的对手。”

‘It is easy to try that,’ says Alan.
“尝试这个很容易，”艾伦说。

Duncan Dhu made haste to bring out the pair of pipes that was his principal possession, and to set before his guests a mutton-ham and a bottle of that drink which they call Athole brose, and which is made of old whiskey, strained honey and sweet cream, slowly beaten together in the right order and proportion. The two enemies were still on the very breach of a quarrel; but down they sat, one upon each side of the peat fire, with a mighty show of politeness. Maclaren pressed them to taste his mutton-ham and ‘the wife’s brose,’ reminding them the wife was out of Athole and had a name far and wide for her skill in that confection. But Robin put aside these hospitalities as bad for the breath.
邓肯·杜 (Duncan Dhu) 赶紧拿出他主要财产的那对烟斗，并在客人面前摆上一份羊肉火腿和一瓶他们称之为 Athole brose 的饮料，这种饮料是用老威士忌、滤过的蜂蜜和甜奶油，按照正确的顺序和比例慢慢搅拌在一起。两个敌人仍处于争吵的边缘。但他们还是坐下来，在泥炭火的两侧各坐一个，表现得非常有礼貌。麦克拉伦强迫他们尝尝他的羊肉火腿和“妻子的糖”，提醒他们妻子来自阿索尔，并因其在甜点方面的技艺而远近闻名。但罗宾把这些热情好客放在一边，认为这对呼吸有害。

‘I would have ye to remark, sir,’ said Alan, ‘that I havenae broken bread for near upon ten hours, which will be worse for the breath than any brose in Scotland.’
“先生，我想请您注意一下，”艾伦说，“我已经吃了近十个小时的面包了，这对呼吸来说比苏格兰的任何面包都更糟糕。”

‘I will take no advantages, Mr. Stewart,’ replied Robin. ‘Eat and drink; I’ll follow you.’
“我不会占任何便宜，斯图尔特先生，”罗宾回答道。 '吃和喝;我会跟随你。'

Each ate a small portion of the ham and drank a glass of the brose to Mrs. Maclaren; and then after a great number of civilities, Robin took the pipes and played a little spring in a very ranting manner.
每个人都吃了一小部分火腿，并给麦克拉伦夫人喝了一杯玫瑰酒。一番客套之后，罗宾拿起管子，以非常咆哮的方式演奏了一段小弹簧。

‘Ay, ye can, blow’ said Alan; and taking the instrument from his rival, he first played the same spring in a manner identical with Robin’s; and then wandered into variations, which, as he went on, he decorated with a perfect flight of grace-notes, such as pipers love, and call the ‘warblers.’
“是的，你可以，吹，”艾伦说。他从对手那里拿走了乐器，首先以与罗宾相同的方式演奏同一个弹簧。然后又进入变奏曲，随着他的继续，他用完美的装饰音装饰，例如风笛手喜欢的，并称之为“莺”。

I had been pleased with Robin’s playing, Alan’s ravished me.
我对罗宾的演奏很满意，艾伦的演奏令我着迷。

‘That’s no very bad, Mr. Stewart,’ said the rival, ‘but ye show a poor device in your warblers.’
“这还不错，斯图尔特先生，”竞争对手说，“但是你的莺鸟表现得很差劲。”

‘Me!’ cried Alan, the blood starting to his face. ‘I give ye the lie.’
“我！”艾伦喊道，他的脸上开始流血。 “我给你们撒了谎。”

‘Do ye own yourself beaten at the pipes, then,’ said Robin, ‘that ye seek to change them for the sword?’
“那么，你承认自己被管道打败了吗？”罗宾说，“你想把它们换成剑吗？”

‘And that’s very well said, Mr. Macgregor,’ returned Alan; ‘and in the meantime’ (laying a strong accent on the word) ‘I take back the lie. I appeal to Duncan.’
“说得很好，麦克格雷格先生，”艾伦回答道。 “同时”（在这个词上加重音）“我收回谎言。”我向邓肯求助。

‘Indeed, ye need appeal to naebody,’ said Robin. ‘Ye’re a far better judge than any Maclaren in Balquhidder: for it’s a God’s truth that you’re a very creditable piper for a Stewart. Hand me the pipes.’ Alan did as he asked; and Robin proceeded to imitate and correct some part of Alan’s variations, which it seemed that he remembered perfectly.
“确实，你们需要吸引任何人，”罗宾说。 “你是一个比巴尔奎德的任何麦克拉伦都要好的法官：因为上帝的真理是，你是斯图尔特家族中非常值得信赖的风笛手。把烟斗递给我。”艾伦照他说的做了。罗宾开始模仿并纠正艾伦的一些变化，看来他记得很清楚。

‘Ay, ye have music,’ said Alan, gloomily.
“啊，你们有音乐，”艾伦阴郁地说。

‘And now be the judge yourself, Mr. Stewart,’ said Robin; and taking up the variations from the beginning, he worked them throughout to so new a purpose, with such ingenuity and sentiment, and with so odd a fancy and so quick a knack in the grace-notes, that I was amazed to hear him.
“现在你自己来评判吧，斯图尔特先生，”罗宾说。他从头开始处理变奏，以如此新颖的目的，以如此独创性和情感，以如此奇特的想象力和如此快速的装饰音技巧，使我惊讶地听到他的声音。

As for Alan, his face grew dark and hot, and he sat and gnawed his fingers, like a man under some deep affront. ‘Enough!’ he cried. ‘Ye can blow the pipes — make the most of that.’ And he made as if to rise.
至于艾伦，他的脸色变得又黑又热，他坐在那儿啃着手指，就像一个遭受了严重侮辱的人。 “够了！”他喊道。 “你们可以吹管子——充分利用这一点。”他似乎要站起来。

But Robin only held out his hand as if to ask for silence, and struck into the slow measure of a pibroch. It was a fine piece of music in itself, and nobly played; but it seems, besides, it was a piece peculiar to the Appin Stewarts and a chief favourite with Alan. The first notes were scarce out, before there came a change in his face; when the time quickened, he seemed to grow restless in his seat; and long before that piece was at an end, the last signs of his anger died from him, and he had no thought but for the music.
但罗宾只是伸出手，仿佛是在请求安静，然后伸手敲击了一根缓慢的皮布罗奇。这本身就是一首优美的音乐，演奏起来也很高贵。但除此之外，这似乎是阿平·斯图尔特家族特有的作品，也是艾伦最喜欢的作品。第一个音符刚吹完，他的脸色就变了。随着时间的流逝，他似乎在座位上变得焦躁起来。在那首曲子结束之前很久，他最后的愤怒迹象就消失了，他除了音乐之外什么也没有想。

‘Robin Oig,’ he said, when it was done, ‘ye are a great piper. I am not fit to blow in the same kingdom with ye. Body of me! ye have mair music in your sporran than I have in my head! And though it still sticks in my mind that I could maybe show ye another of it with the cold steel, I warn ye beforehand — it’ll no be fair! It would go against my heart to haggle a man that can blow the pipes as you can!’
“罗宾·奥伊格，”曲终了之后他说道，“你们是一位伟大的风笛手。”我不配和你们在同一个王国里吹。我的身体！你们的 sporran 里的音乐比我脑子里的还要多！虽然我仍然记得我也许可以用冷钢向你们展示另一个，但我事先警告你们——这不公平！和一个能像你一样吹管子的人讨价还价是违背我的心的！

Thereupon that quarrel was made up; all night long the brose was going and the pipes changing hands; and the day had come pretty bright, and the three men were none the better for what they had been taking, before Robin as much as thought upon the road.
于是，这场争吵就和解了。整个晚上，烟斗都在不停地演奏，烟斗也易手。天已经亮了，三个人在路上的时候，罗宾和他们所经历的一切并没有好转。

CHAPTER XXVI
第二十六章


END OF THE FLIGHT: WE PASS THE FORTH
飞行结束：我们经过第四个

The month, as I have said, was not yet out, but it was already far through August, and beautiful warm weather, with every sign of an early and great harvest, when I was pronounced able for my journey. Our money was now run to so low an ebb that we must think first of all on speed; for if we came not soon to Mr. Rankeillor’s, or if when we came there he should fail to help me, we must surely starve. In Alan’s view, besides, the hunt must have now greatly slackened; and the line of the Forth and even Stirling Bridge, which is the main pass over that river, would be watched with little interest.
正如我所说，这个月还没有结束，但八月已经过去很久了，天气温暖宜人，一切迹象都预示着早早的丰收，那时我就可以上路了。我们的钱现在已经到了如此低谷，我们必须首先考虑速度；因为如果我们不尽快到达兰基勒先生家，或者当我们到达那里时他不帮助我，我们肯定会挨饿。此外，在艾伦看来，现在的狩猎活动一定已经大大减弱了。福斯河的沿线，甚至是横跨该河的主要通道斯特灵桥，都不会引起人们的兴趣。

‘It’s a chief principle in military affairs,’ said he, ‘to go where ye are least expected. Forth is our trouble; ye ken the saying, ‘Forth bridles the wild Hielandman.’ Well, if we seek to creep round about the head of that river and come down by Kippen or Balfron, it’s just precisely there that they’ll be looking to lay hands on us. But if we stave on straight to the auld Brig of Stirling, I’ll lay my sword they let us pass unchallenged.’
他说：“军事上的首要原则是去最意想不到的地方。”我们的麻烦就在前方；你们都知道这句话，“向前勒住狂野的希兰德曼。”好吧，如果我们试图绕过那条河的源头并沿着基彭或巴尔弗龙下来​​，他们就会在那里对我们下手。但如果我们直接前往古老的斯特灵双桅船，我会放下我的剑，他们让我们毫无挑战地通过。

The first night, accordingly, we pushed to the house of a Maclaren in Strathire, a friend of Duncan’s, where we slept the twenty-first of the month, and whence we set forth again about the fall of night to make another easy stage. The twenty-second we lay in a heather bush on the hillside in Uam Var, within view of a herd of deer, the happiest ten hours of sleep in a fine, breathing sunshine and on bone-dry ground, that I have ever tasted. That night we struck Allan Water, and followed it down; and coming to the edge of the hills saw the whole Carse of Stirling underfoot, as flat as a pancake, with the town and castle on a hill in the midst of it, and the moon shining on the Links of Forth.
因此，第一天晚上，我们推到了邓肯的朋友、斯特拉西尔的麦克拉伦家，当月的二十一号我们就睡在那里，然后我们在夜幕降临时再次出发，准备另一个轻松的阶段。二十秒后，我们躺在乌姆瓦尔山坡上的石南花丛中，眼前是一群鹿，在明媚的阳光下，在极其干燥的地面上，睡了十个小时，这是我有生以来经历过的最幸福的十个小时。那天晚上，我们袭击了艾伦·沃特，并跟踪它下去。来到山边，脚下看到了整个斯特灵卡尔斯，平坦得像煎饼一样，城镇和城堡就在中间的一座小山上，月光洒在福斯林克斯山上。

‘Now,’ said Alan, ‘I kenna if ye care, but ye’re in your own land again. We passed the Hieland Line in the first hour; and now if we could but pass yon crooked water, we might cast our bonnets in the air.’
“现在，”艾伦说，“如果你们介意的话，我愿意，但你们又回到了自己的土地上。”我们在第一个小时就通过了希兰线；现在，如果我们能通过弯曲的水，我们可能会将帽子抛向空中。

In Allan Water, near by where it falls into the Forth, we found a little sandy islet, overgrown with burdock, butterbur and the like low plants, that would just cover us if we lay flat. Here it was we made our camp, within plain view of Stirling Castle, whence we could hear the drums beat as some part of the garrison paraded. Shearers worked all day in a field on one side of the river, and we could hear the stones going on the hooks and the voices and even the words of the men talking. It behoved to lie close and keep silent. But the sand of the little isle was sun-warm, the green plants gave us shelter for our heads, we had food and drink in plenty; and to crown all, we were within sight of safety.
在艾伦沃特，靠近福斯河的流入处，我们发现了一个小沙岛，长满了牛蒡、款冬之类的低矮植物，如果我们平躺的话，它们刚好能盖住我们。我们就在这里安营扎寨，可以清楚地看到斯特灵城堡，从那里我们可以听到驻军游行时的鼓声。采煤工人在河边的田地里工作了一整天，我们可以听到钩子上的石头、声音，甚至人们说话的声音。必须靠近并保持沉默。但小岛上的沙子阳光温暖，绿色植物为我们遮风挡雨，我们有充足的食物和饮料；最重要的是，我们已经安全了。

As soon as the shearers quit their work and the dusk began to fall, we waded ashore and struck for the Bridge of Stirling, keeping to the fields and under the field fences.
剪羊毛的人一停下工作，黄昏开始降临，我们就涉水上岸，向斯特灵桥进发，一直在田野和田野的栅栏下。

The bridge is close under the castle hill, an old, high, narrow bridge with pinnacles along the parapet; and you may conceive with how much interest I looked upon it, not only as a place famous in history, but as the very doors of salvation to Alan and myself. The moon was not yet up when we came there; a few lights shone along the front of the fortress, and lower down a few lighted windows in the town; but it was all mighty still, and there seemed to be no guard upon the passage.
这座桥紧邻城堡山下，是一座古老的、又高又窄的桥，桥墙上有尖塔；你可能会想象我对它有多么感兴趣，不仅将其视为历史上著名的地方，而且将其视为艾伦和我自己的救赎之门。我们到达那里时月亮还没有升起；堡垒前面闪烁着几盏灯，镇上也有几扇亮着灯的窗户。但一切仍然很强大，通道上似乎没有人把守。

I was for pushing straight across; but Alan was more wary.
我赞成直接推过去；但艾伦更加谨慎。

‘It looks unco’ quiet,’ said he; ‘but for all that we’ll lie down here cannily behind a dyke, and make sure.’
“看起来不那么安静，”他说。 “但尽管如此，我们还是要小心翼翼地躺在堤坝后面，并确定一下。”

So we lay for about a quarter of an hour, whiles whispering, whiles lying still and hearing nothing earthly but the washing of the water on the piers. At last there came by an old, hobbling woman with a crutch stick; who first stopped a little, close to where we lay, and bemoaned herself and the long way she had travelled; and then set forth again up the steep spring of the bridge. The woman was so little, and the night still so dark, that we soon lost sight of her; only heard the sound of her steps, and her stick, and a cough that she had by fits, draw slowly farther away.
我们就这样躺了大约一刻钟，一边窃窃私语，一边一动不动地躺着，除了水冲刷桥墩的声音之外，什么也听不到。最后，一位拄着拐杖、一瘸一拐的老妇人走了过来。她首先在我们躺着的地方附近停了下来，哀叹自己和她走了这么长的路。然后再次出发，登上桥上陡峭的泉水。那个女人太小了，夜色又那么黑，我们很快就看不见她了。只听见她的脚步声、手杖的声音，以及她一阵阵的咳嗽声，慢慢地远去。

‘She’s bound to be across now,’ I whispered.
“她现在肯定已经到了，”我低声说道。

‘Na,’ said Alan, ‘her foot still sounds boss[32] upon the bridge.’
“不，”艾伦说，“她的脚在桥上听起来仍然是老板[32]。”

[32]Hollow.
[32]空心。

And just then — ‘Who goes?’ cried a voice, and we heard the butt of a musket rattle on the stones. I must suppose the sentry had been sleeping, so that had we tried, we might have passed unseen; but he was awake now, and the chance forfeited.
就在这时——“谁去？”一个声音喊道，我们听到步枪枪托在石头上发出嘎嘎声。我猜想那个哨兵当时正在睡觉，所以如果我们尝试的话，我们可能会被忽视。但他现在醒了，机会就这样丧失了。

‘This’ll never do,’ said Alan. ‘This’ll never, never do for us, David.’
“这永远不行，”艾伦说。 “这对我们来说永远、永远不会有好处，大卫。”

And without another word, he began to crawl away through the fields; and a little after, being well out of eye-shot, got to his feet again, and struck along a road that led to the eastward. I could not conceive what he was doing; and indeed I was so sharply cut by the disappointment, that I was little likely to be pleased with anything. A moment back and I had seen myself knocking at Mr. Rankeillor’s door to claim my inheritance, like a hero in a ballad; and here was I back again, a wandering, hunted blackguard, on the wrong side of Forth.
他二话没说，开始爬过田野。过了一会儿，他再次站起来，沿着一条通向东方的道路前进。我无法想象他在做什么；事实上，我因失望而深受打击，以至于我不太可能对任何事情感到满意。不久前，我仿佛看到自己敲着兰基勒先生的门，要求继承我的遗产，就像民谣中的英雄一样。我又回来了，一个流浪的、被追捕的恶棍，在福斯的另一边。

‘Well?’ said I.
“怎么样？”我说。

‘Well,’ said Alan, ‘what would ye have? They’re none such fools as I took them for. We have still the Forth to pass, Davie — weary fall the rains that fed and the hillsides that guided it!’
“好吧，”艾伦说，“你们想要什么？他们并不像我想象的那样傻。我们还有第四条路要过去，戴维——滋润的雨水和引导它的山坡已经疲惫不堪了！

‘And why go east?’ said I.
“那为什么要往东走呢？”我问道。

‘Ou, just upon the chance!’ said he. ‘If we cannae pass the river, we’ll have to see what we can do for the firth.’
“哦，只是碰巧！”他说。 “如果我们无法渡过河流，我们就必须看看能为河湾做些什么。”

‘There are fords upon the river, and none upon the firth,’ said I.
“河上有渡口，河湾上没有。”我说。

‘To be sure there are fords, and a bridge forbye,’ quoth Alan; ‘and of what service, when they are watched?’
“当然有渡口，还有一座渡桥，”艾伦说道。 “当他们被监视时，有什么服务？”

‘Well,’ said I, ‘but a river can be swum.’
“好吧，”我说，“但是可以在河里游泳。”

‘By them that have the skill of it,’ returned he; ‘but I have yet to hear that either you or me is much of a hand at that exercise; and for my own part, I swim like a stone.’
“是那些有这方面技能的人，”他回答道。 “但我还没有听说你或我在这项工作上有很大帮助；就我自己而言，我像一块石头一样游泳。

‘I’m not up to you in talking back, Alan,’ I said; ‘but I can see we’re making bad worse. If it’s hard to pass a river, it stands to reason it must be worse to pass a sea.’
“艾伦，我不忍心顶嘴，”我说。 “但我可以看到我们的情况正在变得更糟。如果过河都困难，那么按理说，过海就更糟糕了。”

‘But there’s such a thing as a boat,’ says Alan, ‘or I’m the more deceived.’
“但是有船这样的东西，”艾伦说，“否则我就更受骗了。”

‘Ay, and such a thing as money,’ says I. ‘But for us that have neither one nor other, they might just as well not have been invented.’
“是啊，还有像金钱这样的东西，”我说，“但对于我们这些一无所有的人来说，它们还不如没有被发明出来呢。”

‘Ye think so?’ said Alan.
“你这么认为吗？”艾伦说。

‘I do that,’ said I.
“我就是这么做的，”我说。

‘David,’ says he, ‘ye’re a man of small invention and less faith. But let me set my wits upon the hone, and if I cannae beg, borrow, nor yet steal a boat, I’ll make one!’
“大卫，”他说，“你是一个缺乏创造力和缺乏信仰的人。”但让我把我的智慧集中在磨练上，如果我不能乞讨，借，也不能偷一艘船，我会造一艘！

‘I think I see ye!’ said I. ‘And what’s more than all that: if ye pass a bridge, it can tell no tales; but if we pass the firth, there’s the boat on the wrong side — somebody must have brought it — the country-side will all be in a bizz —-‘
“我想我看到你们了！”我说，“而且更重要的是：如果你们经过一座桥，它就不会讲故事；如果你们经过一座桥，它就不会讲故事；如果你们经过一座桥，它就不会讲故事；如果你们经过一座桥，它就不会讲故事；如果你们经过一座桥，它就不会讲故事；如果你们经过一座桥，它就不会讲故事；如果你们经过一座桥，它就不会讲故事；如果你们经过一座桥，它就不会讲故事。”但如果我们经过峡湾，船就停在了错误的一边——一定是有人把它带来的——乡下就会热闹起来——”

‘Man!’ cried Alan, ‘if I make a boat, I’ll make a body to take it back again! So deave me with no more of your nonsense, but walk (for that’s what you’ve got to do) —and let Alan think for ye.’
“伙计！”艾伦喊道，“如果我造了一条船，我就会造一个身体来把它夺回来！”所以别再说你的废话了，走吧（因为那是你必须做的）——让艾伦替你想想。

All night, then, we walked through the north side of the Carse under the high line of the Ochil mountains; and by Alloa and Clackmannan and Culross, all of which we avoided: and about ten in the morning, mighty hungry and tired, came to the little clachan of Limekilns. This is a place that sits near in by the water-side, and looks across the Hope to the town of the Queensferry. Smoke went up from both of these, and from other villages and farms upon all hands. The fields were being reaped; two ships lay anchored, and boats were coming and going on the Hope. It was altogether a right pleasant sight to me; and I could not take my fill of gazing at these comfortable, green, cultivated hills and the busy people both of the field and sea.
然后，我们整晚都在奥奇尔山脉的高线下穿过卡尔斯河北侧。上午十点左右，我们又饿又累，来到了石灰窑的小克拉坎。这是一个靠近水边的地方，可以俯瞰霍普河对面的昆斯费里镇。烟雾从这两个地方以及其他村庄和农场的四面八方升起。田地里正在收割；两艘船抛锚停泊，希望号上船只来来往往。这对我来说完全是一个令人愉快的景象。我无法欣赏这些舒适、绿色、开垦的山丘和田野和海上忙碌的人们。

For all that, there was Mr. Rankeillor’s house on the south shore, where I had no doubt wealth awaited me; and here was I upon the north, clad in poor enough attire of an outlandish fashion, with three silver shillings left to me of all my fortune, a price set upon my head, and an outlawed man for my sole company.
尽管如此，南岸有兰基勒先生的房子，我毫不怀疑那里有财富在等着我。我在北方，穿着简陋的奇装异服，我所有的财产都只剩下三先令银子，悬赏要悬赏给我的人头，还有一个为我唯一的同伴的不法之徒。

‘O, Alan!’ said I, ‘to think of it! Over there, there’s all that heart could want waiting me; and the birds go over, and the boats go over — all that please can go, but just me only! O, man, but it’s a heart-break!’
“噢，艾伦！”我说道，“想想看！那里，有我心所向往的一切；鸟儿过去了，小船过去了——所有的人都可以走，但只有我一个人！哦，伙计，但这真是令人心碎！

In Limekilns we entered a small change-house, which we only knew to be a public by the wand over the door, and bought some bread and cheese from a good-looking lass that was the servant. This we carried with us in a bundle, meaning to sit and eat it in a bush of wood on the sea-shore, that we saw some third part of a mile in front. As we went, I kept looking across the water and sighing to myself; and though I took no heed of it, Alan had fallen into a muse. At last he stopped in the way.
在Limekilns，我们进入了一个小更衣室，我们只通过门上的魔杖知道这是一个公共场所，并从一个漂亮的女仆那里买了一些面包和奶酪。我们把它放在一个包裹里随身携带，意思是坐在海边的一丛树林里吃它，我们看到前面大约三分之一英里。一路上，我不断地望着水面，暗自叹息。尽管我没有在意，艾伦却陷入了沉思。最后他停在了路上。

‘Did ye take heed of the lass we bought this of?’ says he, tapping on the bread and cheese.
“你们注意到我们买这个的那个女孩了吗？”他一边说，一边敲着面包和奶酪。

‘To be sure,’ said I, ‘and a bonny lass she was.’
“当然，”我说，“她是个漂亮的姑娘。”

‘Ye thought that?’ cries he. ‘Man, David, that’s good news.’
“你是这么想的吗？”他喊道。 “大卫，这是个好消息。”

‘In the name of all that’s wonderful, why so?’ says I. ‘What good can that do?’
“看在一切美好的名义上，为什么要这样呢？”我说，“那有什么好处呢？”

‘Well,’ said Alan, with one of his droll looks, ‘I was rather in hopes it would maybe get us that boat.’
“好吧，”艾伦一脸滑稽地说道，“我本来希望它能给我们带来那艘船。”

‘If it were the other way about, it would be liker it,’ said I.
“如果是相反的话，那就更好了，”我说。

‘That’s all that you ken, ye see,’ said Alan. ‘I don’t want the lass to fall in love with ye, I want her to be sorry for ye, David; to which end there is no manner of need that she should take you for a beauty. Let me see’ (looking me curiously over). ‘I wish ye were a wee thing paler; but apart from that ye’ll do fine for my purpose — ye have a fine, hang-dog, rag-and-tatter, clappermaclaw kind of a look to ye, as if ye had stolen the coat from a potato-bogle. Come; right about, and back to the change-house for that boat of ours.’
“这就是你所知道的，你看到的，”艾伦说。 “我不想让这个姑娘爱上你，我想让她为你感到难过，大卫；为此，她没有必要把你当作美女。让我看看”（好奇地看着我）。 “我希望你们脸色再苍白一些；但除此之外，你们会很好地实现我的目的——你们的表情很好，衣衫褴褛，狼狈不堪，就好像你们从土豆泥里偷了外套一样。来;就这样，回到我们那艘船的更衣室。

I followed him, laughing.
我跟着他，笑着。

‘David Balfour,’ said he, ‘ye’re a very funny gentleman by your way of it, and this is a very funny employ for ye, no doubt. For all that, if ye have any affection for my neck (to say nothing of your own) ye will perhaps be kind enough to take this matter responsibly. I am going to do a bit of play-acting, the bottom ground of which is just exactly as serious as the gallows for the pair of us. So bear it, if ye please, in mind, and conduct yourself according.’
“大卫·贝尔福，”他说，“从你的方式来看，你是一位非常有趣的绅士，毫无疑问，这对你来说是一个非常有趣的工作。尽管如此，如果你们对我的脖子有任何感情（更不用说你们自己的），你们也许会善意地负责任地对待这件事。我要做一些戏剧性的表演，其本质与我们两人的绞刑架一样严重。因此，请记住这一点，并据此行事。”

‘Well, well,’ said I, ‘have it as you will.’
“好吧，好吧，”我说，“随你便吧。”

As we got near the clachan, he made me take his arm and hang upon it like one almost helpless with weariness; and by the time he pushed open the change-house door, he seemed to be half carrying me. The maid appeared surprised (as well she might be) at our speedy return; but Alan had no words to spare for her in explanation, helped me to a chair, called for a tass of brandy with which he fed me in little sips, and then breaking up the bread and cheese helped me to eat it like a nursery-lass; the whole with that grave, concerned, affectionate countenance, that might have imposed upon a judge. It was small wonder if the maid were taken with the picture we presented, of a poor, sick, overwrought lad and his most tender comrade. She drew quite near, and stood leaning with her back on the next table.
当我们接近克拉坎时，他让我握住他的手臂，像一个几乎因疲倦而无助的人一样挂在上面。当他推开更衣室的门时，他似乎半抱着我。女仆似乎对我们这么快回来感到惊讶（也许她也很惊讶）。但艾伦没有多余的言语来解释她，把我扶到椅子上，要了一点白兰地，小口地喂我，然后把面包和奶酪打碎，帮我像托儿所一样吃起来——姑娘；整个人都带着那种严肃、关切、深情的表情，这可能会强加给法官。难怪女仆会和我们展示的照片合影，照片上是一个贫穷、生病、过度劳累的小伙子和他最温柔的伙伴。她靠得很近，背靠着旁边的桌子站着。

‘What’s like wrong with him?’ said she at last.
“他怎么了？”她最后说道。

Alan turned upon her, to my great wonder, with a kind of fury. ‘Wrong?’ cries he. ‘He’s walked more hundreds of miles than he has hairs upon his chin, and slept oftener in wet heather than dry sheets. Wrong, quo’ she! Wrong enough, I would think! Wrong, indeed!’ and he kept grumbling to himself as he fed me, like a man ill-pleased.
令我惊奇的是，艾伦带着一种愤怒转向了她。 “错了？”他喊道。 “他走了数百英里，比他下巴上的头发还长，睡在潮湿的石南花上比睡在干床单上还多。”错了，她！我想就大错特错了！确实错了！”他一边喂我，一边不断地自言自语，就像一个不高兴的人。

‘He’s young for the like of that,’ said the maid.
“他还年轻，”女仆说。

‘Ower young,’ said Alan, with his back to her.
“哦，年轻啊，”艾伦背对着她说道。

‘He would be better riding,’ says she.
“他会骑得更好，”她说。

‘And where could I get a horse to him?’ cried Alan, turning on her with the same appearance of fury. ‘Would ye have me steal?’
“我到哪里去给他弄一匹马呢？”艾伦喊道，转身对着她，脸上同样充满了愤怒。 “你们想让我偷东西吗？”

I thought this roughness would have sent her off in dudgeon, as indeed it closed her mouth for the time. But my companion knew very well what he was doing; and for as simple as he was in some things of life, had a great fund of roguishness in such affairs as these.
我以为这种粗鲁会让她感到愤怒，因为事实上它暂时让她闭嘴了。但我的同伴非常清楚他在做什么；他知道自己在做什么。尽管他在生活中的某些事情上很单纯，但在诸如此类的事情上却有很多恶作剧。

‘Ye neednae tell me,’ she said at last — ‘ye’re gentry.’
“你们需要告诉我，”她最后说道——“你们是绅士。”

‘Well,’ said Alan, softened a little (I believe against his will) by this artless comment, ‘and suppose we were? Did ever you hear that gentrice put money in folk’s pockets?’
“好吧，”艾伦说，他的语气因这句天真无邪的评论而软化了一些（我相信这违背了他的意愿），“假设我们是这样呢？你听说过贵族把钱放进老百姓的口袋里吗？

She sighed at this, as if she were herself some disinherited great lady. ‘No,’ says she, ‘that’s true indeed.’
她叹了口气，仿佛自己就是一个被剥夺了继承权的贵妇。 “不，”她说，“确实如此。”

I was all this while chafing at the part I played, and sitting tongue-tied between shame and merriment; but somehow at this I could hold in no longer, and bade Alan let me be, for I was better already. My voice stuck in my throat, for I ever hated to take part in lies; but my very embarrassment helped on the plot, for the lass no doubt set down my husky voice to sickness and fatigue.
我一直对自己所扮演的角色感到恼火，在羞耻和欢乐之间张口结舌。但不知何故，我再也坚持不住了，于是吩咐艾伦让我这么做，因为我已经好多了。我的声音卡在喉咙里，因为我一向讨厌参与谎言；但我的尴尬却助长了情节，因为这个女孩无疑将我沙哑的声音归咎于疾病和疲劳。

‘Has he nae friends?’ said she, in a tearful voice.
“他没有朋友吗？”她泪流满面地说。

‘That has he so!’ cried Alan, ‘if we could but win to them! — friends and rich friends, beds to lie in, food to eat, doctors to see to him — and here he must tramp in the dubs and sleep in the heather like a beggarman.’
“他就是这样！”艾伦喊道，“如果我们能战胜他们就好了！” ——朋友和富有的朋友，可以躺的床，可以吃的食物，可以照顾他的医生——而在这里，他必须像乞丐一样踩在灌木丛中，睡在石南丛中。

‘And why that?’ says the lass.
“那为什么呢？”女孩问道。

‘My dear,’ said Alan, ‘I cannae very safely say; but I’ll tell ye what I’ll do instead,’ says he, ‘I’ll whistle ye a bit tune.’ And with that he leaned pretty far over the table, and in a mere breath of a whistle, but with a wonderful pretty sentiment, gave her a few bars of ‘Charlie is my darling.’
“亲爱的，”艾伦说，“我不能非常肯定地说；但我会告诉你们我该怎么做，”他说，“我会给你们吹点口哨。”说着，他把身子靠在桌子上方，只吹了一声口哨，但一种美妙而美丽的情感，给了她几句“查理是我的亲爱的”。

‘Wheesht,’ says she, and looked over her shoulder to the door.
“哎呀，”她说着，扭头看向门口。

‘That’s it,’ said Alan.
“就是这样，”艾伦说。

‘And him so young!’ cries the lass.
“而且他还这么年轻！”小姑娘喊道。

‘He’s old enough to——‘ and Alan struck his forefinger on the back part of his neck, meaning that I was old enough to lose my head.
“他已经足够大了——”艾伦用食指敲击了他的脖子后部，这意味着我已经足够大了，可以失去理智了。

‘It would be a black shame,’ she cried, flushing high.
“这将是一种耻辱，”她红着脸喊道。

‘It’s what will be, though,’ said Alan, ‘unless we manage the better.’
“不过，情况就是这样，”艾伦说，“除非我们做得更好。”

At this the lass turned and ran out of that part of the house, leaving us alone together. Alan in high good humour at the furthering of his schemes, and I in bitter dudgeon at being called a Jacobite and treated like a child.
这时，那个女孩转身跑出了房子的那部分，留下我们单独在一起。艾伦对他的计划的进一步推进感到非常高兴，而我则因被称为雅各布派并被像孩子一样对待而感到痛苦。

‘Alan,’ I cried, ‘I can stand no more of this.’
“艾伦，”我喊道，“我再也受不了了。”

‘Ye’ll have to sit it then, Davie,’ said he. ‘For if ye upset the pot now, ye may scrape your own life out of the fire, but Alan Breck is a dead man.’
“那你就得坐下来了，戴维，”他说。 “如果你们现在翻了锅，你们可能会从火中救出自己的生命，但艾伦·布雷克已经死了。”

This was so true that I could only groan; and even my groan served Alan’s purpose, for it was overheard by the lass as she came flying in again with a dish of white puddings and a bottle of strong ale.
这实在是太真实了，我只能呻吟；连我的呻吟声都达到了艾伦的目的，因为当她带着一盘白布丁和一瓶烈性啤酒再次飞进来时，她无意中听到了我的呻吟声。

‘Poor lamb!’ says she, and had no sooner set the meat before us, than she touched me on the shoulder with a little friendly touch, as much as to bid me cheer up. Then she told us to fall to, and there would be no more to pay; for the inn was her own, or at least her father’s, and he was gone for the day to Pittencrieff. We waited for no second bidding, for bread and cheese is but cold comfort and the puddings smelt excellently well; and while we sat and ate, she took up that same place by the next table, looking on, and thinking, and frowning to herself, and drawing the string of her apron through her hand.
“可怜的羔羊！”她说，刚把肉放在我们面前，她就友好地碰了碰我的肩膀，仿佛是想让我振作起来。然后她告诉我们就这样吧，这样就不用再付钱了。因为旅馆是她自己的，或者至少是她父亲的，而他今天去了皮滕克里夫。我们没有等待第二次出价，因为面包和奶酪只是冰凉的安慰，布丁闻起来非常好；所以我们没有等待第二次出价。当我们坐下来吃饭时，她坐在邻桌旁的同一个地方，一边看着，一边思考，皱着眉头，用手拉着围裙的带子。

‘I’m thinking ye have rather a long tongue,’ she said at last to Alan.
“我想你的舌头相当长，”她最后对艾伦说道。

‘Ay’ said Alan; ‘but ye see I ken the folk I speak to.’
艾伦说：“是的。” “但是你看，我了解与我交谈的人。”

‘I would never betray ye,’ said she, ‘if ye mean that.’
“如果你是这么想的话，”她说，“我永远不会背叛你。”

‘No,’ said he, ‘ye’re not that kind. But I’ll tell ye what ye would do, ye would help.’
“不，”他说，“你不是那种人。”但我会告诉你们你们会做什么，你们会帮忙。

‘I couldnae,’ said she, shaking her head. ‘Na, I couldnae.’
“我不能，”她摇着头说道。 “不，我不能。”

‘No,’ said he, ‘but if ye could?’
“不，”他说，“但是如果可以的话？”

She answered him nothing.
她没有回答他。

‘Look here, my lass,’ said Alan, ‘there are boats in the Kingdom of Fife, for I saw two (no less) upon the beach, as I came in by your town’s end. Now if we could have the use of a boat to pass under cloud of night into Lothian, and some secret, decent kind of a man to bring that boat back again and keep his counsel, there would be two souls saved — mine to all likelihood — his to a dead surety. If we lack that boat, we have but three shillings left in this wide world; and where to go, and how to do, and what other place there is for us except the chains of a gibbet — I give you my naked word, I kenna! Shall we go wanting, lassie? Are ye to lie in your warm bed and think upon us, when the wind gowls in the chimney and the rain tirls on the roof? Are ye to eat your meat by the cheeks of a red fire, and think upon this poor sick lad of mine, biting his finger ends on a blae muir for cauld and hunger? Sick or sound, he must aye be moving; with the death grapple at his throat he must aye be trailing in the rain on the lang roads; and when he gants his last on a rickle of cauld stanes, there will be nae friends near him but only me and God.’
“看这里，我的姑娘，”艾伦说，“法夫王国里有船，因为当我从你镇的尽头进来时，我在海滩上看到了两艘（不少于）船。现在，如果我们能使用一艘船在夜色的云层下进入洛锡安，并且有一个秘密的、正派的人把那艘船再次带回来并遵守他的建议，那么就会有两个灵魂得救——很可能是我的灵魂——他的绝对保证。如果我们没有那艘船，那么我们在这个广阔的世界上就只剩下三先令了；去哪里，怎么做，除了绞刑架上的铁链之外，我们还有什么地方可去——我向你赤裸裸地说，我肯纳！我们要不要去寻找，小姐？当风在烟囱里呼啸，雨在屋顶上翻滚时，你会躺在温暖的床上想着我们吗？难道你们要在红火的脸颊旁吃肉，并想想我这个可怜的生病的小伙子，他的手指末端咬在一个blae muir上以求止痛和饥饿吗？无论他生病还是健康，他都必须在移动；喉咙上还挂着死亡擒抱，他一定是在雨中在朗道上拖着脚步。当他在一条砾石上完成最后的生命时，他身边将没有朋友，只有我和上帝。

At this appeal, I could see the lass was in great trouble of mind, being tempted to help us, and yet in some fear she might be helping malefactors; and so now I determined to step in myself and to allay her scruples with a portion of the truth.
听了这番呼吁，我看得出来这个姑娘心情很不好，很想帮助我们，但又担心她可能会帮助不法之徒。所以现在我决定亲自介入，用部分真相来消除她的顾虑。

‘Did ever you, hear’ said I, ‘of Mr. Rankeillor of the Ferry?’
“你听说过，”我说，“渡轮的兰基勒先生吗？”

‘Rankeillor the writer?’ said she. ‘I daur say that!’
“兰基勒是作家吗？”她问道。 “我就是这么说的！”

‘Well,’ said I, ‘it’s to his door that I am bound, so you may judge by that if I am an ill-doer; and I will tell you more, that though I am indeed, by a dreadful error, in some peril of my life, King George has no truer friend in all Scotland than myself.’
“好吧，”我说，“我是被绑在他家门口的，所以你可以据此来判断我是否是个坏人。我会告诉你更多，虽然我确实犯了一个可怕的错误，处于生命危险中，但乔治国王在整个苏格兰没有比我更忠实的朋友了。

Her face cleared up mightily at this, although Alan’s darkened.
听到这句话，她的脸色变得明亮起来，但艾伦的脸色却阴沉了下来。

‘That’s more than I would ask,’ said she. ‘Mr. Rankeillor is a kennt man.’ And she bade us finish our meat, get clear of the clachan as soon as might be, and lie close in the bit wood on the sea-beach. ‘And ye can trust me,’ says she, ‘I’ll find some means to put you over.’
“这超出了我的要求，”她说。 '先生。兰基勒是个肯特人。”她吩咐我们吃完肉，尽快离开克拉坎，然后躺在海滩上的小树林里。 “你可以相信我，”她说，“我会想办法把你安置下来。”

At this we waited for no more, but shook hands with her upon the bargain, made short work of the puddings, and set forth again from Limekilns as far as to the wood. It was a small piece of perhaps a score of elders and hawthorns and a few young ashes, not thick enough to veil us from passersby upon the road or beach. Here we must lie, however, making the best of the brave warm weather and the good hopes we now had of a deliverance, and planing more particularly what remained for us to do.
我们不再等待，而是与她握手讨价还价，很快就把布丁吃完了，然后再次从石灰窑出发，一直到树林。那是一小块，大概是二十棵接骨木、山楂树和一些年轻的骨灰，厚度不足以遮盖我们，不让我们在路上或海滩上的路人看到。然而，我们必须躺在这里，充分利用勇敢的温暖天气和我们现在对解救的美好希望，并更具体地计划我们剩下要做的事情。

We had but one trouble all day; when a strolling piper came and sat in the same wood with us; a red-nosed, bleareyed, drunken dog, with a great bottle of whisky in his pocket, and a long story of wrongs that had been done him by all sorts of persons, from the Lord President of the Court of Session, who had denied him justice, down to the Bailies of Inverkeithing who had given him more of it than he desired. It was impossible but he should conceive some suspicion of two men lying all day concealed in a thicket and having no business to allege. As long as he stayed there he kept us in hot water with prying questions; and after he was gone, as he was a man not very likely to hold his tongue, we were in the greater impatience to be gone ourselves.
我们一整天只有一个麻烦：当一位漫步的风笛手走过来，和我们一起坐在同一片树林里时；一只红鼻子、睡眼惺忪、喝醉了的狗，口袋里揣着一大瓶威士忌，还有一长串关于各种各样的人对他犯下的错误的故事，来自最高民事法院的院长，他否认了这一点。为他伸张正义，直到因弗基辛的治安官给了他比他想要的更多的正义。这是不可能的，但他应该怀疑有两个人整天躲在灌木丛里，没有任何事可指控。只要他待在那里，他就不断地向我们提出各种问题，让我们陷入困境。他走后，由于他是个不太可能保持沉默的人，我们自己也更急于离开。

The day came to an end with the same brightness; the night fell quiet and clear; lights came out in houses and hamlets and then, one after another, began to be put out; but it was past eleven, and we were long since strangely tortured with anxieties, before we heard the grinding of oars upon the rowing-pins. At that, we looked out and saw the lass herself coming rowing to us in a boat. She had trusted no one with our affairs, not even her sweetheart, if she had one; but as soon as her father was asleep, had left the house by a window, stolen a neighbour’s boat, and come to our assistance single-handed.
这一天以同样的明亮结束了。夜色静谧而晴朗；房屋和村庄的灯光都熄灭了，然后又开始熄灭。但已经过了十一点，我们早已被奇怪的焦虑折磨着，然后才听到桨在划桨上的摩擦声。这时，我们向外望去，看见那个女孩亲自划着一条船向我们这边来了。我们的事情她不相信任何人，即使是她的心上人（如果有的话）；但她父亲一睡着，就从窗户离开了房子，偷了邻居的船，单枪匹马来帮助我们。

I was abashed how to find expression for my thanks; but she was no less abashed at the thought of hearing them; begged us to lose no time and to hold our peace, saying (very properly) that the heart of our matter was in haste and silence; and so, what with one thing and another, she had set us on the Lothian shore not far from Carriden, had shaken hands with us, and was out again at sea and rowing for Limekilns, before there was one word said either of her service or our gratitude.
我不知如何表达我的谢意；但一想到要听到他们的声音，她就感到同样羞愧。恳求我们不要浪费时间并保持沉默，（非常恰当地）说我们问题的核心是匆忙和沉默；就这样，经过一番周折，她把我们送到了离卡里登不远的洛锡安海岸，与我们握手，然后再次出海，划船前往石灰窑，然后就没有人说她的服务了。或我们的感激之情。

Even after she was gone, we had nothing to say, as indeed nothing was enough for such a kindness. Only Alan stood a great while upon the shore shaking his head.
即使她走了之后，我们也无话可说，因为确实没有什么足以表达这样的善意。只有艾伦在岸边站了好一会儿，摇头。

‘It is a very fine lass,’ he said at last. ‘David, it is a very fine lass.’ And a matter of an hour later, as we were lying in a den on the sea-shore and I had been already dozing, he broke out again in commendations of her character. For my part, I could say nothing, she was so simple a creature that my heart smote me both with remorse and fear: remorse because we had traded upon her ignorance; and fear lest we should have anyway involved her in the dangers of our situation.
“这是一个非常优秀的姑娘，”他最后说道。 “大卫，这是一个非常优秀的姑娘。”大约一个小时后，当我们躺在海边的一个小房间里时，我已经打瞌睡了，他再次赞扬了她的性格。就我而言，我无话可说，她是一个如此简单的生物，我的心既悔恨又害怕：悔恨是因为我们用了她的无知；担心我们无论如何都会让她陷入我们处境的危​​险之中。

CHAPTER XXVII
第二十七章


I COME TO MR. RANKEILLOR
我来找先生。兰凯勒

The next day it was agreed that Alan should fend for himself till sunset; but as soon as it began to grow dark, he should lie in the fields by the roadside near to Newhalls, and stir for naught until he heard me whistling. At first I proposed I should give him for a signal the ‘Bonnie House of Airlie,’ which was a favourite of mine; but he objected that as the piece was very commonly known, any ploughman might whistle it by accident; and taught me instead a little fragment of a Highland air, which has run in my head from that day to this, and will likely run in my head when I lie dying. Every time it comes to me, it takes me off to that last day of my uncertainty, with Alan sitting up in the bottom of the den, whistling and beating the measure with a finger, and the grey of the dawn coming on his face.
第二天，大家商定让艾伦自己照顾自己直到日落。但一旦天色开始变黑，他就应该躺在纽霍尔斯附近路边的田野里，毫无动静地翻动，直到听到我吹口哨。起初，我提议给他“艾尔利邦尼之家”作为信号，这是我最喜欢的。但他反对说，由于这首曲子已广为人知，任何农夫都可能会无意中吹响它。相反，他教给了我一小段高地空气，从那天到现在，这种空气一直在我的脑海中萦绕，当我躺着死去时，它很可能会在我的脑海中萦绕。每次它出现在我的脑海里，我都会陷入不确定的最后一天，艾伦坐在书房的底部，吹着口哨，用手指敲打着节拍，黎明的灰色笼罩在他的脸上。

I was in the long street of Queensferry before the sun was up. It was a fairly built burgh, the houses of good stone, many slated; the town-hall not so fine, I thought, as that of Peebles, nor yet the street so noble; but take it altogether, it put me to shame for my foul tatters.
太阳升起之前，我就在昆斯费里的长街上。那是一个建造得相当好的城镇，房屋都是用优质石头建造的，许多都是石板砌成的。我想，市政厅不像皮布尔斯那样漂亮，街道也不像皮布尔斯那样高贵。但总而言之，这让我为自己肮脏的破烂衣服感到羞愧。

As the morning went on, and the fires began to be kindled, and the windows to open, and the people to appear out of the houses, my concern and despondency grew ever the blacker. I saw now that I had no grounds to stand upon; and no clear proof of my rights, nor so much as of my own identity. If it was all a bubble, I was indeed sorely cheated and left in a sore pass. Even if things were as I conceived, it would in all likelihood take time to establish my contentions; and what time had I to spare with less than three shillings in my pocket, and a condemned, hunted man upon my hands to ship out of the country? Truly, if my hope broke with me, it might come to the gallows yet for both of us. And as I continued to walk up and down, and saw people looking askance at me upon the street or out of windows, and nudging or speaking one to another with smiles, I began to take a fresh apprehension: that it might be no easy matter even to come to speech of the lawyer, far less to convince him of my story.
随着早晨的过去，火开始点燃，窗户开始打开，人们从房子里出来，我的担忧和沮丧变得越来越深。现在我发现我没有立足之地了；没有明确的证据证明我的权利，也没有证明我自己的身份。如果这一切都是泡沫，我确实被欺骗了，陷入了痛苦的境地。即使事情如我所设想的那样，很可能也需要时间来证实我的论点；口袋里只有不到三先令，手上还有一个被定罪、被追捕的人，我还有什么时间可以用船运出这个国家呢？确实，如果我的希望破灭了，我们俩都可能会被送上绞刑架。当我继续走来走去，看到人们在街上或窗外斜视着我，并微笑着互相推搡或交谈时，我开始产生一种新的担忧：这可能不是一件容易的事即使是来听律师的演讲，更不用说让他相信我的故事了。

For the life of me I could not muster up the courage to address any of these reputable burghers; I thought shame even to speak with them in such a pickle of rags and dirt; and if I had asked for the house of such a man as Mr. Rankeillor, I suppose they would have burst out laughing in my face. So I went up and down, and through the street, and down to the harbour-side, like a dog that has lost its master, with a strange gnawing in my inwards, and every now and then a movement of despair. It grew to be high day at last, perhaps nine in the forenoon; and I was worn with these wanderings, and chanced to have stopped in front of a very good house on the landward side, a house with beautiful, clear glass windows, flowering knots upon the sills, the walls new-harled[33] and a chase-dog sitting yawning on the step like one that was at home. Well, I was even envying this dumb brute, when the door fell open and there issued forth a shrewd, ruddy, kindly, consequential man in a well-powdered wig and spectacles. I was in such a plight that no one set eyes on me once, but he looked at me again; and this gentleman, as it proved, was so much struck with my poor appearance that he came straight up to me and asked me what I did.
我一生都无法鼓起勇气向这些有信誉的市民讲话。我什至觉得在如此破烂和肮脏的环境中与他们交谈都是耻辱。如果我要兰基勒先生这样的人的房子，我想他们一定会当着我的面大笑。我就这样走来走去，穿过街道，来到港口边，就像一只失去主人的狗，心里有一种奇怪的啃咬感，时不时地表现出绝望的情绪。天终于亮了，也许是上午九点。我厌倦了这些漫游，偶然停在了面向陆地的一栋非常好的房子前，房子有漂亮、透明的玻璃窗，窗台上有花节，墙壁是新的哈尔德[33]和一个一只追狗坐在台阶上打哈欠，就像在家里的狗一样。好吧，我什至在羡慕这个愚蠢的畜生，当门打开时，一个精明、面色红润、和蔼可亲、头戴扑粉假发、戴着眼镜的男人走了出来。我的处境如此糟糕，没有人看我一眼，但他又看了我一眼；事实证明，这位先生对我糟糕的外表感到非常震惊，他径直走到我面前，问我做了什么。

[33]Newly rough-cast.
[33]新的毛坯。

I told him I was come to the Queensferry on business, and taking heart of grace, asked him to direct me to the house of Mr. Rankeillor.
我告诉他我是来昆斯费里出差的，我很高兴，请他带我去兰基勒先生的家。

‘Why,’ said he, ‘that is his house that I have just come out of; and for a rather singular chance, I am that very man.’
“哎呀，”他说，“那是我刚从他家出来的。”一次相当难得的机会，我就是那个人。

‘Then, sir,’ said I, ‘I have to beg the favour of an interview.’
“那么，先生，”我说，“我必须请求采访。”

‘I do not know your name,’ said he, ‘nor yet your face.’
“我不知道你的名字，”他说，“也不知道你的长相。”

‘My name is David Balfour,’ said I.
“我叫大卫·贝尔福，”我说。

‘David Balfour?’ he repeated, in rather a high tone, like one surprised. ‘And where have you come from, Mr. David Balfour?’ he asked, looking me pretty drily in the face.
“大卫·贝尔福？”他重复道，语气相当高，就像一个惊讶的人。 “大卫·贝尔福先生，你从哪里来？”他冷冷地看着我的脸问道。

‘I have come from a great many strange places, sir,’ said I; ‘but I think it would be as well to tell you where and how in a more private manner.’
“先生，我来自许多陌生的地方，”我说道。 “但我认为最好以更私密的方式告诉你地点和方式。”

He seemed to muse awhile, holding his lip in his hand, and looking now at me and now upon the causeway of the street.
他似乎沉思了一会儿，用手捂着嘴唇，时而看着我，时而看着街道的堤道。

‘Yes,’ says he, ‘that will be the best, no doubt.’ And he led me back with him into his house, cried out to some one whom I could not see that he would be engaged all morning, and brought me into a little dusty chamber full of books and documents. Here he sate down, and bade me be seated; though I thought he looked a little ruefully from his clean chair to my muddy rags. ‘And now,’ says he, ‘if you have any business, pray be brief and come swiftly to the point. Nec gemino bellum Trojanum orditur ab ovo —do you understand that?’ says he, with a keen look.
“是的，”他说，“毫无疑问，那是最好的。”然后他把我带回了他的房子，向一个我看不到的人喊道，他整个早上都会订婚，然后把我带了过来。进入一个布满灰尘的小房间，里面装满了书籍和文件。他在这里坐下，请我坐下。尽管我觉得从他干净的椅子到我沾满泥泞的破布，他看起来有点悲伤。 “现在，”他说，“如果你有什么事，请简短地说，并迅速切入主题。 Nec gemino bellum Trojanum orditur ab ovo——你明白吗？”他目光敏锐地说道。

‘I will even do as Horace says, sir,’ I answered, smiling, ‘and carry you in medias res.’ He nodded as if he was well pleased, and indeed his scrap of Latin had been set to test me. For all that, and though I was somewhat encouraged, the blood came in my face when I added: ‘I have reason to believe myself some rights on the estate of Shaws.’
“我什至会按照贺拉斯说的去做，先生，”我微笑着回答，“把你带到媒体资源中。”他点点头，好像很高兴，事实上，他那段拉丁文就是为了考验我。尽管如此，尽管我受到了一些鼓励，但当我补充道：“我有理由相信自己对肖氏庄园有一些权利时，我的脸都流血了。”

He got a paper book out of a drawer and set it before him open. ‘Well?’ said he.
他从抽屉里拿出一本纸质书，打开放在面前。 “怎么样？”他说。

But I had shot my bolt and sat speechless.
但我已经开枪了，坐在那里说不出话来。

‘Come, come, Mr. Balfour,’ said he, ‘you must continue. Where were you born?’
“来吧，来吧，贝尔福先生，”他说，“你必须继续。”你在哪里出世？'

‘In Essendean, sir,’ said I, ‘the year 1733, the 12th of March.’
“在埃森丁，先生，”我说，“1733 年，3 月 12 日。”

He seemed to follow this statement in his paper book; but what that meant I knew not. ‘Your father and mother?’ said he.
他似乎在纸质书中遵循了这一说法；但我不知道这意味着什么。 “你的父母？”他说。

‘My father was Alexander Balfour, schoolmaster of that place,’ said I, ‘and my mother Grace Pitarrow; I think her people were from Angus.’
“我的父亲是亚历山大·贝尔福，那个地方的校长，”我说，“我的母亲是格蕾丝·皮塔罗；我认为她的人来自安格斯。

‘Have you any papers proving your identity?’ asked Mr. Rankeillor.
“你有任何文件证明你的身份吗？”兰基勒先生问道。

‘No, sir,’ said I, ‘but they are in the hands of Mr. Campbell, the minister, and could be readily produced. Mr. Campbell, too, would give me his word; and for that matter, I do not think my uncle would deny me.’
“不，先生，”我说，“但是它们在部长坎贝尔先生的手中，可以很容易地制作出来。”坎贝尔先生也向我保证。就此而言，我认为我叔叔不会拒绝我。

‘Meaning Mr. Ebenezer Balfour?’ says he.
“你指的是埃比尼泽·贝尔福先生吗？”他说道。

‘The same,’ said I.
“一样。”我说。

‘Whom you have seen?’ he asked.
“你看到谁了？”他问道。

‘By whom I was received into his own house,’ I answered.
“他把我接到他自己的家里，”我回答道。

‘Did you ever meet a man of the name of Hoseason?’ asked Mr. Rankeillor.
“你见过一个叫霍萨森的人吗？”兰基勒先生问道。

‘I did so, sir, for my sins,’ said I; ‘for it was by his means and the procurement of my uncle, that I was kidnapped within sight of this town, carried to sea, suffered shipwreck and a hundred other hardships, and stand before you to-day in this poor accoutrement.’
“先生，我这样做是为了我的罪过。”我说道。 “因为正是通过他的手段和我叔叔的怂恿，我在这座城镇的视野范围内被绑架，被带到海上，遭受了海难和其他一百种苦难，今天穿着这身破烂的装备站在你们面前。”

‘You say you were shipwrecked,’ said Rankeillor; ‘where was that?’
“你说你遭遇了海难，”兰基勒说道。 “那是哪里？”

‘Off the south end of the Isle of Mull,’ said I. ‘The name of the isle on which I was cast up is the Island Earraid.’
“在马尔岛的南端附近，”我说，“我被抛到的那个小岛的名字是艾尔袭击岛。”

‘Ah!’ says he, smiling, ‘you are deeper than me in the geography. But so far, I may tell you, this agrees pretty exactly with other informations that I hold. But you say you were kidnapped; in what sense?’
“啊！”他微笑着说，“你的地理知识比我更深。”但到目前为止，我可以告诉你，这与我掌握的其他信息非常吻合。但你说你被绑架了；凭什么？'

‘In the plain meaning of the word, sir,’ said I. ‘I was on my way to your house, when I was trepanned on board the brig, cruelly struck down, thrown below, and knew no more of anything till we were far at sea. I was destined for the plantations; a fate that, in God’s providence, I have escaped.’
“按照这个词的简单意思，先生，”我说。“我正在去你家的路上，当我在双桅船上被环钻时，被残酷地击倒，被扔到下面，直到我们被困为止，我什么也不知道了。”远在海上。我注定要去种植园；在上帝的眷顾下，我逃脱了这种命运。

‘The brig was lost on June the 27th,’ says he, looking in his book,’ and we are now at August the 24th. Here is a considerable hiatus, Mr. Balfour, of near upon two months. It has already caused a vast amount of trouble to your friends; and I own I shall not be very well contented until it is set right.’
“双桅船于 6 月 27 日失踪，”他看着自己的书说道，“而我们现在是 8 月 24 日。贝尔福先生，现在已经有近两个月的时间中断了。已经给你的朋友带来了很大的麻烦；我承认，除非事情得到纠正，否则我不会很满意。

‘Indeed, sir,’ said I, ‘these months are very easily filled up; but yet before I told my story, I would be glad to know that I was talking to a friend.’
“确实，先生，”我说，“这几个月很容易就被填满了；但在我讲述我的故事之前，我很高兴知道我正在和一个朋友说话。

‘This is to argue in a circle,’ said the lawyer. ‘I cannot be convinced till I have heard you. I cannot be your friend till I am properly informed. If you were more trustful, it would better befit your time of life. And you know, Mr. Balfour, we have a proverb in the country that evil-doers are aye evil-dreaders.’
律师说：“这是绕圈争论。” “在听到你的声音之前，我无法相信。”在我得到适当的通知之前，我不能成为你的朋友。如果你更加信任，这将更适合你的人生。你知道，贝尔福先生，我们国家有句谚语：作恶者皆恶人。

‘You are not to forget, sir,’ said I, ‘that I have already suffered by my trustfulness; and was shipped off to be a slave by the very man that (if I rightly understand) is your employer?’
“您不要忘记，先生，”我说，“我已经因为我的信任而受苦了；并被你的雇主（如果我没理解错的话）送去当奴隶？

All this while I had been gaining ground with Mr. Rankeillor, and in proportion as I gained ground, gaining confidence. But at this sally, which I made with something of a smile myself, he fairly laughed aloud.
一直以来，我在兰基勒先生那里取得了进展，随着我取得进展，我也获得了信心。但当我自己带着微笑做出这样的举动时，他却大笑起来。

‘No, no,’ said he, ‘it is not so bad as that. Fui, non sum. I was indeed your uncle’s man of business; but while you (imberbis juvenis custode remoto) were gallivanting in the west, a good deal of water has run under the bridges; and if your ears did not sing, it was not for lack of being talked about. On the very day of your sea disaster, Mr. Campbell stalked into my office, demanding you from all the winds. I had never heard of your existence; but I had known your father; and from matters in my competence (to be touched upon hereafter) I was disposed to fear the worst. Mr. Ebenezer admitted having seen you; declared (what seemed improbable) that he had given you considerable sums; and that you had started for the continent of Europe, intending to fulfil your education, which was probable and praiseworthy. Interrogated how you had come to send no word to Mr. Campbell, he deponed that you had expressed a great desire to break with your past life. Further interrogated where you now were, protested ignorance, but believed you were in Leyden. That is a close sum of his replies. I am not exactly sure that any one believed him,’ continued Mr. Rankeillor with a smile; ‘and in particular he so much disrelished me expressions of mine that (in a word) he showed me to the door. We were then at a full stand; for whatever shrewd suspicions we might entertain, we had no shadow of probation. In the very article, comes Captain Hoseason with the story of your drowning; whereupon all fell through; with no consequences but concern to Mr. Campbell, injury to my pocket, and another blot upon your uncle’s character, which could very ill afford it. And now, Mr. Balfour,’ said he, ‘you understand the whole process of these matters, and can judge for yourself to what extent I may be trusted.’
“不，不，”他说，“事情没有那么糟糕。” Fui，非总和。我确实是你叔叔的商人；但是，当你（imberbis juvenis custode remoto）在西部嬉戏时，大量的水已经从桥下流过；如果你的耳朵不唱歌，那并不是因为没有人谈论你。就在你遭遇海难的那天，坎贝尔先生大步走进我的办公室，要求你远离一切风浪。我从未听说过你的存在；但我认识你的父亲；由于我能力范围内的事情（下文将谈到），我倾向于担心最坏的情况。埃比尼泽先生承认见过你；宣称（这似乎不太可能）他给了你相当多的钱；你已经出发前往欧洲大陆，打算完成你的学业，这是可能的且值得赞扬的。当被问及你为什么不给坎贝尔先生发消息时，他否认说你表达了与过去的生活决裂的强烈愿望。进一步审问你现在在哪里，抗议你无知，但相信你在莱顿。这是他的答复的大致总结。我不确定是否有人相信他，”兰基勒先生微笑着继续说道。 “尤其是他非常不喜欢我的表达方式，以至于（一句话）他把我带到了门口。那时我们已经完全站稳了脚跟。无论我们可能抱有何种精明的怀疑，我们都没有缓刑的影子。在这篇文章中，霍西森船长讲述了你溺水的故事；于是一切都失败了；没有任何后果，只是坎贝尔先生担心，我的口袋受伤，还有你叔叔的性格上的另一个污点，你叔叔的性格是很难承受的。现在，贝尔福先生，”他说道，“你了解了这些事情的整个过程，并且可以自己判断我在多大程度上可以被信任。”

Indeed he was more pedantic than I can represent him, and placed more scraps of Latin in his speech; but it was all uttered with a fine geniality of eye and manner which went far to conquer my distrust. Moreover, I could see he now treated me as if I was myself beyond a doubt; so that first point of my identity seemed fully granted.
事实上，他比我所描述的还要迂腐，并且在演讲中加入了更多的拉丁语片段。但这一切都是以一种友善的眼神和态度说出来的，这大大消除了我的怀疑。而且，我看得出来，他现在对待我的态度就好像我就是我自己一样，毫无疑问。所以我的身份的第一点似乎是完全理所当然的。

‘Sir,’ said I, ‘if I tell you my story, I must commit a friend’s life to your discretion. Pass me your word it shall be sacred; and for what touches myself, I will ask no better guarantee than just your face.’
“先生，”我说，“如果我告诉你我的故事，我必须将一个朋友的生命交给你决定。把你的话传给我，它将是神圣的；对于触动我自己的事情，我不会要求比你的脸更好的保证。

He passed me his word very seriously. ‘But,’ said he, ‘these are rather alarming prolocutions; and if there are in your story any little jostles to the law, I would beg you to bear in mind that I am a lawyer, and pass lightly.’
他非常认真地向我保证了他的诺言。 “但是，”他说，“这些都是相当令人震惊的说法；如果你的故事中有任何触犯法律的地方，我恳求你记住我是一名律师，请谨慎通过。

Thereupon I told him my story from the first, he listening with his spectacles thrust up and his eyes closed, so that I sometimes feared he was asleep. But no such matter! he heard every word (as I found afterward) with such quickness of hearing and precision of memory as often surprised me. Even strange outlandish Gaelic names, heard for that time only, he remembered and would remind me of, years after. Yet when I called Alan Breck in full, we had an odd scene. The name of Alan had of course rung through Scotland, with the news of the Appin murder and the offer of the reward; and it had no sooner escaped me than the lawyer moved in his seat and opened his eyes.
于是我从一开始就给他讲了我的故事，他戴着眼镜，闭着眼睛听着，所以我有时担心他睡着了。但没有这样的事！他听每一个字（正如我后来发现的那样），其听力之快和记忆之精确常常令我惊讶。即使是奇怪的、古怪的盖尔语名字，只在当时听到过，他还记得，并会在多年后提醒我。然而，当我给艾伦·布雷克打电话时，我们遇到了一个奇怪的场景。随着阿平被谋杀的消息和悬赏的消息，艾伦的名字当然响彻了苏格兰。我刚意识到这一点，律师就在座位上动了动，睁开了眼睛。

‘I would name no unnecessary names, Mr. Balfour,’ said he; ‘above all of Highlanders, many of whom are obnoxious to the law.’
“我不会说出不必要的名字，贝尔福先生，”他说。 “尤其是高地人，他们中的许多人都触犯法律。”

‘Well, it might have been better not,’ said I, ‘but since I have let it slip, I may as well continue.’
“好吧，也许不做更好，”我说，“但既然我已经让它溜走了，我还是继续吧。”

‘Not at all,’ said Mr. Rankeillor. ‘I am somewhat dull of hearing, as you may have remarked; and I am far from sure I caught the name exactly. We will call your friend, if you please, Mr. Thomson — that there may be no reflections. And in future, I would take some such way with any Highlander that you may have to mention — dead or alive.’
“一点也不，”兰基勒先生说。 “正如你所说，我的听力有些迟钝；我还不确定我是否准确地听懂了这个名字。如果您愿意的话，我们会打电话给您的朋友汤姆森先生——以免有任何反映。将来，我会对任何你可能不得不提到的高地人采取这样的方式——不管是死的还是活着的。

By this, I saw he must have heard the name all too clearly, and had already guessed I might be coming to the murder. If he chose to play this part of ignorance, it was no matter of mine; so I smiled, said it was no very Highland-sounding name, and consented. Through all the rest of my story Alan was Mr. Thomson; which amused me the more, as it was a piece of policy after his own heart. James Stewart, in like manner, was mentioned under the style of Mr. Thomson’s kinsman; Colin Campbell passed as a Mr. Glen; and to Cluny, when I came to that part of my tale, I gave the name of ‘Mr. Jameson, a Highland chief.’ It was truly the most open farce, and I wondered that the lawyer should care to keep it up; but, after all, it was quite in the taste of that age, when there were two parties in the state, and quiet persons, with no very high opinions of their own, sought out every cranny to avoid offence to either.
由此看来，他一定是把这个名字听得太清楚了，已经猜到我可能是来杀人的。如果他选择扮演这个无知的角色，那与我无关；于是我笑了笑，说这名字听起来不太像高地，然后就同意了。在我的故事的其余部分中，艾伦就是汤姆森先生。这更让我觉得好笑，因为这是符合他心意的政策。同样，詹姆斯·斯图尔特也以汤姆森先生的亲戚的身份被提及。科林·坎贝尔 (Colin Campbell) 被冒充为格伦先生 (Mr. Glen)；当我讲到故事的那一部分时，我给克鲁尼起了个名字“克鲁尼先生”。詹姆森，一位高地酋长。”这确实是一场最公开的闹剧，我想知道律师是否应该介意继续下去；因为这确实是一场闹剧。但毕竟，这很符合那个时代的口味，当时国家有两个政党，而安静的人，自己没有很高的意见，会寻找每一个缝隙以避免冒犯任何一方。

‘Well, well,’ said the lawyer, when I had quite done, ‘this is a great epic, a great Odyssey of yours. You must tell it, sir, in a sound Latinity when your scholarship is riper; or in English if you please, though for my part I prefer the stronger tongue. You have rolled much; quae regio in terris — what parish in Scotland (to make a homely translation) has not been filled with your wanderings? You have shown, besides, a singular aptitude for getting into false positions; and, yes, upon the whole, for behaving well in them. This Mr. Thomson seems to me a gentleman of some choice qualities, though perhaps a trifle bloody-minded. It would please me none the worse, if (with all his merits) he were soused in the North Sea, for the man, Mr. David, is a sore embarrassment. But you are doubtless quite right to adhere to him; indubitably, he adhered to you. It comes — we may say — he was your true companion; nor less paribus curis vestigia figit, for I dare say you would both take an orra thought upon the gallows. Well, well, these days are fortunately, by; and I think (speaking humanly) that you are near the end of your troubles.’
“好吧，好吧，”当我说完之后，律师说道，“这是一部伟大的史诗，一部伟大的奥德赛。”先生，当你的学识更加成熟时，你必须用纯正的拉丁语来讲述它。如果你愿意的话，也可以用英语，尽管就我而言，我更喜欢更强大的语言。你已经滚了很多； quae regio in terris——苏格兰哪个教区（做个通俗易懂的翻译）没有充满过你的流浪？此外，你还表现出了一种陷入错误立场的独特能力。是的，总的来说，因为他们表现得很好。在我看来，这位汤姆森先生是一位具有某些品质的绅士，尽管也许有点血腥。即使他（尽管他有很多优点）在北海被浸泡，我也不会更高兴，因为大卫先生这个人是一个非常尴尬的人。但毫无疑问，你坚持他是完全正确的。毫无疑问，他坚持你。我们可以说，他是你真正的伴侣；同样，同样的情况也一样，因为我敢说，你们俩都会对绞刑架有一个奥拉的想法。好啦好啦，这几天还好，靠；我认为（以人性的方式来说）你的麻烦已经接近尾声了。

As he thus moralised on my adventures, he looked upon me with so much humour and benignity that I could scarce contain my satisfaction. I had been so long wandering with lawless people, and making my bed upon the hills and under the bare sky, that to sit once more in a clean, covered house, and to talk amicably with a gentleman in broadcloth, seemed mighty elevations. Even as I thought so, my eye fell on my unseemly tatters, and I was once more plunged in confusion. But the lawyer saw and understood me. He rose, called over the stair to lay another plate, for Mr. Balfour would stay to dinner, and led me into a bedroom in the upper part of the house. Here he set before me water and soap, and a comb; and laid out some clothes that belonged to his son; and here, with another apposite tag, he left me to my toilet.
当他这样对我的冒险进行道德教育时，他用如此幽默和仁慈的目光看着我，我几乎无法抑制自己的满足。我已经和无法无天的人一起流浪了很长时间，在山上和光秃秃的天空下睡觉，再次坐在干净、有顶棚的房子里，与一位穿着绒布的绅士友好地交谈，似乎是一种巨大的提升。正当我这么想的时候，我的目光却落在了自己那破破烂烂的衣服上，我再次陷入了困惑。但律师看到并理解了我。他站起身来，叫我在楼梯那边再放一个盘子，因为贝尔福先生会留下来吃晚饭，然后带我走进房子上层的一间卧室。他把水、肥皂和一把梳子放在我面前。并拿出一些属于他儿子的衣服；在这里，他带着另一个合适的标签，把我留在了厕所。

CHAPTER XXVIII
第二十八章


I GO IN QUEST OF MY INHERITANCE
我去寻找我的继承权

I made what change I could in my appearance; and blithe was I to look in the glass and find the beggarman a thing of the past, and David Balfour come to life again. And yet I was ashamed of the change too, and, above all, of the borrowed clothes. When I had done, Mr. Rankeillor caught me on the stair, made me his compliments, and had me again into the cabinet.
我尽我所能改变自己的外表；我高兴地看着镜子，发现乞丐已经成为过去，大卫·贝尔福又复活了。但我也对这种改变感到羞耻，尤其是对借来的衣服感到羞耻。当我完成后，兰基勒先生在楼梯上抓住了我，向我致意，然后让我再次进入柜子。

‘Sit ye down, Mr. David,’ said he, ‘and now that you are looking a little more like yourself, let me see if I can find you any news. You will be wondering, no doubt, about your father and your uncle? To be sure it is a singular tale; and the explanation is one that I blush to have to offer you. For,’ says he, really with embarrassment, ‘the matter hinges on a love affair.’
“请坐下，大卫先生，”他说，“现在你看上去有点像你自己了，让我看看能否找到你的任何消息。”毫无疑问，您会想知道您的父亲和叔叔吗？可以肯定的是，这是一个独特的故事；我不得不向你提供这样的解释，这让我感到羞愧。因为，”他非常尴尬地说，“这件事取决于一段爱情。”

‘Truly,’ said I, ‘I cannot very well join that notion with my uncle.’
“确实，”我说，“我不太同意我叔叔的这个想法。”

‘But your uncle, Mr. David, was not always old,’ replied the lawyer, ‘and what may perhaps surprise you more, not always ugly. He had a fine, gallant air; people stood in their doors to look after him, as he went by upon a mettle horse. I have seen it with these eyes, and I ingenuously confess, not altogether without envy; for I was a plain lad myself and a plain man’s son; and in those days it was a case of Odi te, qui bellus es, Sabelle.’
“但是你的叔叔大卫先生并不总是很老，”律师回答道，“也许更让你惊讶的是，他并不总是丑陋的。”他有一种优雅、英勇的气质。当他骑着一匹勇敢的马走过时，人们站在门口迎接他。我亲眼目睹了这一点，我坦率地承认，并非完全没有嫉妒；因为我自己就是一个普通的小伙子，也是一个普通人的儿子；在那些日子里，这是一个 Odi te, qui bellus es, Sabelle 的例子。

‘It sounds like a dream,’ said I.
“这听起来像一场梦，”我说。

‘Ay, ay,’ said the lawyer, ‘that is how it is with youth and age. Nor was that all, but he had a spirit of his own that seemed to promise great things in the future. In 1715, what must he do but run away to join the rebels? It was your father that pursued him, found him in a ditch, and brought him back multum gementem; to the mirth of the whole country. However, majora canamus — the two lads fell in love, and that with the same lady. Mr. Ebenezer, who was the admired and the beloved, and the spoiled one, made, no doubt, mighty certain of the victory; and when he found he had deceived himself, screamed like a peacock. The whole country heard of it; now he lay sick at home, with his silly family standing round the bed in tears; now he rode from public-house to public-house, and shouted his sorrows into the lug of Tom, Dick, and Harry. Your father, Mr. David, was a kind gentleman; but he was weak, dolefully weak; took all this folly with a long countenance; and one day — by your leave! — resigned the lady. She was no such fool, however; it’s from her you must inherit your excellent good sense; and she refused to be bandied from one to another. Both got upon their knees to her; and the upshot of the matter for that while was that she showed both of them the door. That was in August; dear me! the same year I came from college. The scene must have been highly farcical.’
“唉，唉，”律师说，“年轻人和年老都是这样。”这还不是全部，但他有自己的精神，似乎预示着未来会发生伟大的事情。 1715年，除了逃亡加入叛乱之外，他还能做什么呢？是你父亲追赶他，在沟渠里发现了他，把他带了回来。为全国人民带来欢乐。然而，majora canamus——这两个小伙子坠入爱河，而且是同一个女士。埃比尼泽先生是一位受人钦佩、受人爱戴、又被宠坏的人，毫无疑问，他对胜利充满信心。当他发现自己欺骗了自己时，他像孔雀一样尖叫起来。全国都听说了；现在他病倒在家里，他愚蠢的家人站在床边泪流满面。现在，他骑马从一家酒馆到另一家酒馆，对着汤姆、迪克和哈利的肩膀大声诉说他的悲伤。你的父亲大卫先生是一位和蔼可亲的绅士。但他很虚弱，虚弱得可怜；面对这一切愚蠢的事，我板着脸；有一天——请您原谅！ ——女士辞职了。不过，她可没那么傻。你必须从她那里继承你卓越的判断力；她拒绝从一个地方转移到另一个地方。两人都向她跪下。那段时间的结果是她把他们俩带出了门。那是在八月。亲爱的我！同年我从大学毕业。场面一定非常滑稽。”

I thought myself it was a silly business, but I could not forget my father had a hand in it. ‘Surely, sir, it had some note of tragedy,’ said I.
我自己认为这是一件愚蠢的事情，但我无法忘记我的父亲参与其中。 “当然，先生，这件事带有某种悲剧色彩。”我说道。

‘Why, no, sir, not at all,’ returned the lawyer. ‘For tragedy implies some ponderable matter in dispute, some dignus vindice nodus; and this piece of work was all about the petulance of a young ass that had been spoiled, and wanted nothing so much as to be tied up and soundly belted. However, that was not your father’s view; and the end of it was, that from concession to concession on your father’s part, and from one height to another of squalling, sentimental selfishness upon your uncle’s, they came at last to drive a sort of bargain, from whose ill results you have recently been smarting. The one man took the lady, the other the estate. Now, Mr. David, they talk a great deal of charity and generosity; but in this disputable state of life, I often think the happiest consequences seem to flow when a gentleman consults his lawyer, and takes all the law allows him. Anyhow, this piece of Quixotry on your father’s part, as it was unjust in itself, has brought forth a monstrous family of injustices. Your father and mother lived and died poor folk; you were poorly reared; and in the meanwhile, what a time it has been for the tenants on the estate of Shaws! And I might add (if it was a matter I cared much about) what a time for Mr. Ebenezer!’
“哦，不，先生，一点也不，”律师回答道。 “因为悲剧意味着一些有争议的重要问题，一些dignus vindice nodus；这件作品讲述的是一头被宠坏了的小驴子的任性，除了被绑起来、系上安全带外，什么都不想。然而，那不是你父亲的观点；那是你父亲的观点。结果是，你父亲方面不断让步，你叔叔方面从一个高度的怨言、感伤的自私到另一个高度，他们最终达成了某种讨价还价，你最近从他们的不良后果中得到了回报。一直很聪明。一个男人夺走了这位女士，另一个夺走了庄园。现在，大卫先生，他们谈论了大量的慈善和慷慨；但在这种充满争议的生活状态下，我常常认为，当一位绅士咨询他的律师并采取法律允许的一切措施时，最幸福的结果似乎就会出现。无论如何，你父亲的这一堂堂吉诃德式的行为，本身就是不公正的，却造成了一个可怕的不公正家庭。你们的父母生前和死后都是穷人；你的教养很差；与此同时，对于肖氏庄园的租户来说，这是多么美好的时光啊！我还可以补充一点（如果这是我非常关心的事情的话）埃比尼泽先生度过了多么美好的时光！

‘And yet that is certainly the strangest part of all,’ said I, ‘that a man’s nature should thus change.’
“然而，这无疑是最奇怪的部分，”我说，“一个人的本性竟然会发生这样的改变。”

‘True,’ said Mr. Rankeillor. ‘And yet I imagine it was natural enough. He could not think that he had played a handsome part. Those who knew the story gave him the cold shoulder; those who knew it not, seeing one brother disappear, and the other succeed in the estate, raised a cry of murder; so that upon all sides he found himself evited. Money was all he got by his bargain; well, he came to think the more of money. He was selfish when he was young, he is selfish now that he is old; and the latter end of all these pretty manners and fine feelings you have seen for yourself.’
“确实如此，”兰基勒先生说。 “但我想这很自然。”他不认为自己扮演了一个漂亮的角色。那些知道这个故事的人都对他冷眼相待；那些不知道的人，看到一个兄弟失踪了，而另一个兄弟继承了庄园，则发出了谋杀的呼声。因此他发现自己在各方面都被驱逐了。他通过讨价还价得到的只是金钱。好吧，他开始更看重金钱。年轻的时候他自私，现在老了他也自私；以及你亲眼所见的所有这些美丽的举止和美好的感情的最后结局。

‘Well, sir,’ said I, ‘and in all this, what is my position?’
“好吧，先生，”我说，“在这一切中，我的立场是什么？”

‘The estate is yours beyond a doubt,’ replied the lawyer. ‘It matters nothing what your father signed, you are the heir of entail. But your uncle is a man to fight the indefensible; and it would be likely your identity that he would call in question. A lawsuit is always expensive, and a family lawsuit always scandalous; besides which, if any of your doings with your friend Mr. Thomson were to come out, we might find that we had burned our fingers. The kidnapping, to be sure, would be a court card upon our side, if we could only prove it. But it may be difficult to prove; and my advice (upon the whole) is to make a very easy bargain with your uncle, perhaps even leaving him at Shaws where he has taken root for a quarter of a century, and contenting yourself in the meanwhile with a fair provision.’
“毫无疑问，遗产是你的，”律师回答道。 “无论你父亲签署了什么，你都是继承权的继承人。但你的叔叔是一个敢于与无理取闹的人作斗争的人；他很可能会质疑你的身份。诉讼总是昂贵的，家庭诉讼总是令人反感的；除此之外，如果你和你的朋友汤姆森先生的所作所为被泄露出来，我们可能会发现自己被烫伤了手指。可以肯定的是，如果我们能够证明这一点，绑架事件将成为我们这边的一张法庭牌。但这可能很难证明；我的建议（总体而言）是与你叔叔进行一项非常简单的讨价还价，甚至可能把他留在邵氏，在那里他已经扎根了四分之一个世纪，同时满足于公平的供应。

I told him I was very willing to be easy, and that to carry family concerns before the public was a step from which I was naturally much averse. In the meantime (thinking to myself) I began to see the outlines of that scheme on which we afterwards acted.
我告诉他我很愿意表现得很轻松，而在公众面前把家庭的忧虑带到公众面前是我自然非常不愿意做的一步。与此同时（心里想着）我开始看到我们后来采取行动的那个计划的轮廓。

‘The great affair,’ I asked, ‘is to bring home to him the kidnapping?’
“最伟大的事情，”我问道，“就是让他了解绑架事件？”

‘Surely,’ said Mr. Rankeillor, ‘and if possible, out of court. For mark you here, Mr. David: we could no doubt find some men of the Covenant who would swear to your reclusion; but once they were in the box, we could no longer check their testimony, and some word of your friend Mr. Thomson must certainly crop out. Which (from what you have let fall) I cannot think to be desirable.’
“当然可以，”兰基勒先生说，“如果可能的话，可以在法庭外进行。”大卫先生，在这里请注意您：毫无疑问，我们可以找到一些圣约人，他们会发誓让您隐退；但一旦他们被放进盒子里，我们就无法再核实他们的证词了，你的朋友汤姆森先生的一些话肯定会被漏掉。我认为这（从你所放弃的情况来看）是不可取的。

‘Well, sir,’ said I, ‘here is my way of it.’ And I opened my plot to him.
“好吧，先生，”我说，“这就是我的方法。”然后我向他讲述了我的计划。

‘But this would seem to involve my meeting the man Thomson?’ says he, when I had done.
“但这似乎涉及到我会见汤姆森这个人？”我讲完后，他说道。

‘I think so, indeed, sir,’ said I.
“我确实这么认为，先生，”我说。

‘Dear doctor!’ cries he, rubbing his brow. ‘Dear doctor! No, Mr. David, I am afraid your scheme is inadmissible. I say nothing against your friend, Mr. Thomson: I know nothing against him; and if I did — mark this, Mr. David! — it would be my duty to lay hands on him. Now I put it to you: is it wise to meet? He may have matters to his charge. He may not have told you all. His name may not be even Thomson!’ cries the lawyer, twinkling; ‘for some of these fellows will pick up names by the roadside as another would gather haws.’
“亲爱的医生！”他揉着额头喊道。 ‘亲爱的医生！不，大卫先生，恐怕你的计划是不可接受的。我没有说任何反对你的朋友，汤姆森先生的话：我对他一无所知。如果我这样做了——请注意这一点，大卫先生！ ——我有责任抓住他。现在我告诉你：见面明智吗？他可能有事情需要他负责。他可能没有告诉你全部。他的名字可能根本就不是汤姆森！”律师眨着眼睛喊道。 “因为其中一些人会在路边捡起名字，就像另一些人会收集山楂一样。”

‘You must be the judge, sir,’ said I.
“你必须是法官，先生，”我说。

But it was clear my plan had taken hold upon his fancy, for he kept musing to himself till we were called to dinner and the company of Mrs. Rankeillor; and that lady had scarce left us again to ourselves and a bottle of wine, ere he was back harping on my proposal. When and where was I to meet my friend Mr. Thomson; was I sure of Mr. T.’s discretion; supposing we could catch the old fox tripping, would I consent to such and such a term of an agreement — these and the like questions he kept asking at long intervals, while he thoughtfully rolled his wine upon his tongue. When I had answered all of them, seemingly to his contentment, he fell into a still deeper muse, even the claret being now forgotten. Then he got a sheet of paper and a pencil, and set to work writing and weighing every word; and at last touched a bell and had his clerk into the chamber.
但很明显，我的计划已经引起了他的注意，因为他一直在沉思，直到我们被叫去吃晚饭，并有兰基勒夫人陪伴。那位女士刚刚又给我们留下了自己和一瓶酒，他就回来喋喋不休地谈论我的求婚。我何时何地与我的朋友汤姆森先生见面？我是否确信 T. 先生的判断力？假设我们能抓住老狐狸绊倒的地方，我是否会同意这样那样的协议条款——他一边若有所思地把酒放在舌头上，一边长时间地不断问这些问题。当我回答完所有问题后，他似乎很满意，但他却陷入了更深的沉思，甚至连红葡萄酒都被遗忘了。然后他拿了一张纸和一支铅笔，开始写作并掂量每一个字。最后按响了铃，让他的职员进入了房间。

‘Torrance,’ said he, ‘I must have this written out fair against to-night; and when it is done, you will be so kind as put on your hat and be ready to come along with this gentleman and me, for you will probably be wanted as a witness.’
“托兰斯，”他说，“我必须在今晚之前把这个写出来；当一切完成后，请您戴上帽子，准备好与这位先生和我一起去，因为您可能会被通缉作为证人。

‘What, sir,’ cried I, as soon as the clerk was gone, ‘are you to venture it?’
“什么，先生，”店员一走，我就喊道，“您愿意冒险吗？”

‘Why, so it would appear,’ says he, filling his glass. ‘But let us speak no more of business. The very sight of Torrance brings in my head a little droll matter of some years ago, when I had made a tryst with the poor oaf at the cross of Edinburgh. Each had gone his proper errand; and when it came four o’clock, Torrance had been taking a glass and did not know his master, and I, who had forgot my spectacles, was so blind without them, that I give you my word I did not know my own clerk.’ And thereupon he laughed heartily.
“哎呀，看来是这样，”他一边说，一边倒满了杯子。 “但是我们不要再谈正事了。一看到托兰斯，我的脑海里就浮现出几年前的一件小事，当时我在爱丁堡十字路口与那个可怜的傻瓜幽会。每个人都完成了自己该做的事。到了四点钟的时候，托兰斯一直在拿杯子，不认识他的主人，而我，忘记了我的眼镜，没有眼镜，我就瞎了，我向你保证，我不认识我自己的店员” 于是他爽朗地笑了起来。

I said it was an odd chance, and smiled out of politeness; but what held me all the afternoon in wonder, he kept returning and dwelling on this story, and telling it again with fresh details and laughter; so that I began at last to be quite put out of countenance and feel ashamed for my friend’s folly.
我说这是一个奇怪的机会，并出于礼貌笑了笑。但整个下午让我感到惊奇的是，他不断地回来并沉思这个故事，并以新鲜的细节和笑声再次讲述它。于是我终于开始脸色难看，并为我朋友的愚蠢行为感到羞愧。

Towards the time I had appointed with Alan, we set out from the house, Mr. Rankeillor and I arm in arm, and Torrance following behind with the deed in his pocket and a covered basket in his hand. All through the town, the lawyer was bowing right and left, and continually being button-holed by gentlemen on matters of burgh or private business; and I could see he was one greatly looked up to in the county. At last we were clear of the houses, and began to go along the side of the haven and towards the Hawes Inn and the Ferry pier, the scene of my misfortune. I could not look upon the place without emotion, recalling how many that had been there with me that day were now no more: Ransome taken, I could hope, from the evil to come; Shuan passed where I dared not follow him; and the poor souls that had gone down with the brig in her last plunge. All these, and the brig herself, I had outlived; and come through these hardships and fearful perils without scath. My only thought should have been of gratitude; and yet I could not behold the place without sorrow for others and a chill of recollected fear.
快到我和艾伦约定的时间时，我们从房子里出发了，兰基勒先生和我手挽手，托伦斯跟在后面，口袋里装着契约，手里拿着一个有盖的篮子。在整个城镇里，律师左右鞠躬，并不断地被绅士们在市政或私人事务上扣扣。我看得出他是县里很受尊敬的人。最后我们离开了房子，开始沿着避难所的一侧走向霍伊斯旅馆和渡轮码头，那里就是我不幸的地方。我无法不激动地看着这个地方，回想起那天和我在一起的有多少人现在已经不复存在了：我希望，从即将到来的邪恶中，赎回了；栓经过了我不敢跟他走的地方；还有那些在最后一次跳水中与双桅船一同沉没的可怜人。所有这些，以及双桅船本身，我都已经死了；并安然度过这些艰辛和可怕的危险。我唯一的想法应该是感激；然而，我一看到这个地方，就无法不为他人感到悲痛，也不由回想起恐惧的寒意。

I was so thinking when, upon a sudden, Mr. Rankeillor cried out, clapped his hand to his pockets, and began to laugh.
我正这么想，突然，兰基勒先生大叫起来，用手捂住口袋，开始大笑。

‘Why,’ he cries, ‘if this be not a farcical adventure! After all that I said, I have forgot my glasses!’
“为什么，”他喊道，“如果这不是一场滑稽的冒险！说了这么多，我忘了带眼镜了！”

At that, of course, I understood the purpose of his anecdote, and knew that if he had left his spectacles at home, it had been done on purpose, so that he might have the benefit of Alan’s help without the awkwardness of recognising him. And indeed it was well thought upon; for now (suppose things to go the very worst) how could Rankeillor swear to my friend’s identity, or how be made to bear damaging evidence against myself? For all that, he had been a long while of finding out his want, and had spoken to and recognised a good few persons as we came through the town; and I had little doubt myself that he saw reasonably well.
那时，我当然明白了他讲轶事的目的，也知道如果他把眼镜留在家里，那是故意的，这样他就可以得到艾伦的帮助，而不会因为认出他而感到尴尬。事实上，这是经过深思熟虑的。现在（假设事情发展到最坏的情况）兰基勒如何能保证我朋友的身份，或者如何让他承担对自己不利的证据？尽管如此，他还是花了很长时间才找到自己的需求，当我们穿过小镇时，他和​​不少人交谈过，也认出了他们。我毫不怀疑他看得相当清楚。

As soon as we were past the Hawes (where I recognised the landlord smoking his pipe in the door, and was amazed to see him look no older) Mr. Rankeillor changed the order of march, walking behind with Torrance and sending me forward in the manner of a scout. I went up the hill, whistling from time to time my Gaelic air; and at length I had the pleasure to hear it answered and to see Alan rise from behind a bush. He was somewhat dashed in spirits, having passed a long day alone skulking in the county, and made but a poor meal in an alehouse near Dundas. But at the mere sight of my clothes, he began to brighten up; and as soon as I had told him in what a forward state our matters were and the part I looked to him to play in what remained, he sprang into a new man.
我们一经过霍斯（我认出了房东在门口抽烟斗，很惊讶地看到他看起来并不老），兰基勒先生改变了行军顺序，托伦斯走在后面，让我在前面走。侦察兵的方式。我上山，时不时地吹着盖尔语的口哨。最后，我很高兴听到它回答，并看到艾伦从灌木丛后面站起来。他独自在县里鬼鬼祟祟地度过了漫长的一天，在邓达斯附近的一家酒馆里只吃了一顿可怜的饭，他的精神有些消沉。但只要一看到我的衣服，他就开始高兴起来；当我告诉他我们的事情进展如何，以及我希望他在剩下的事情中扮演什么角色时，他就焕然一新了。

‘And that is a very good notion of yours,’ says he; ‘and I dare to say that you could lay your hands upon no better man to put it through than Alan Breck. It is not a thing (mark ye) that any one could do, but takes a gentleman of penetration. But it sticks in my head your lawyer-man will be somewhat wearying to see me,’ says Alan.
“你的想法非常好，”他说。 “我敢说，你找不到比艾伦·布雷克更好的人来完成这件事。”这不是任何人都能做的事情，而是需要有洞察力的君子。但我脑子里一直萦绕着一个念头：你的律师见到我会有些厌倦，”艾伦说。

Accordingly I cried and waved on Mr. Rankeillor, who came up alone and was presented to my friend, Mr. Thomson.
于是，我哭着向兰基勒先生挥手，他独自上来，被介绍给我的朋友汤姆森先生。

‘Mr. Thomson, I am pleased to meet you,’ said he. ‘But I have forgotten my glasses; and our friend, Mr. David here’ (clapping me on the shoulder), ‘will tell you that I am little better than blind, and that you must not be surprised if I pass you by to-morrow.’
'先生。汤姆森，我很高兴见到你，”他说。 “但是我忘记带眼镜了；我们的朋友，大卫先生，”（拍拍我的肩膀），“会告诉你，我比瞎子好不了多少，如果我明天从你身边经过，你一定不要感到惊讶。”

This he said, thinking that Alan would be pleased; but the Highlandman’s vanity was ready to startle at a less matter than that.
他这么说，以为艾伦会很高兴。但高地人的虚荣心足以让比这更小的事情吓到。

‘Why, sir,’ says he, stiffly, ‘I would say it mattered the less as we are met here for a particular end, to see justice done to Mr. Balfour; and by what I can see, not very likely to have much else in common. But I accept your apology, which was a very proper one to make.’
“哎呀，先生，”他生硬地说，“我想说，这并不重要，因为我们在这里相聚是为了一个特定的目的，就是为了让贝尔福先生得到公正的对待；但是，这并不重要。”据我所知，不太可能有太多其他共同点。但我接受你的道歉，这是一个非常恰当的道歉。”

‘And that is more than I could look for, Mr. Thomson,’ said Rankeillor, heartily. ‘And now as you and I are the chief actors in this enterprise, I think we should come into a nice agreement; to which end, I propose that you should lend me your arm, for (what with the dusk and the want of my glasses) I am not very clear as to the path; and as for you, Mr. David, you will find Torrance a pleasant kind of body to speak with. Only let me remind you, it’s quite needless he should hear more of your adventures or those of — ahem — Mr. Thomson.’
“这超出了我的期望，汤姆森先生，”兰基勒衷心地说。 “现在，由于你和我是这项事业的主要参与者，我认为我们应该达成一项很好的协议；为此，我建议你把你的手臂借给我，因为（由于黄昏和我的眼镜的缺失）我不太清楚那条路；至于你，大卫先生，你会发现托兰斯是一个令人愉快的交谈对象。只是让我提醒你，他完全没有必要听更多你的冒险经历或者——咳咳——汤姆森先生的冒险经历。

Accordingly these two went on ahead in very close talk, and Torrance and I brought up the rear.
因此，这两个人走在前面，非常亲密地交谈，托兰斯和我走在最后。

Night was quite come when we came in view of the house of Shaws. Ten had been gone some time; it was dark and mild, with a pleasant, rustling wind in the south-west that covered the sound of our approach; and as we drew near we saw no glimmer of light in any portion of the building. It seemed my uncle was Already in bed, which was indeed the best thing for our arrangements. We made our last whispered consultations some fifty yards away; and then the lawyer and Torrance and I crept quietly up and crouched down beside the corner of the house; and as soon as we were in our places, Alan strode to the door without concealment and began to knock.
当我们看到萧家的时候，夜幕已经降临了。十号已经走了一段时间了；天气阴暗而温和，西南方向吹来一阵令人愉快的沙沙风，掩盖了我们接近的声音。当我们走近时，我们在建筑物的任何部分都看不到一丝光亮。看来叔叔已经上床睡觉了，这对于我们的安排来说确实是最好的事情。我们在大约五十码外进行了最后一次低声磋商。然后律师、托伦斯和我悄悄地爬起来，蹲在房子的一角旁边。我们一就位，艾伦就毫不掩饰地大步走到门口，开始敲门。

CHAPTER XXIX
第二十九章


I COME INTO MY KINGDOM
我进入我的王国

For some time Alan volleyed upon the door, and his knocking only roused the echoes of the house and neighbourhood. At last, however, I could hear the noise of a window gently thrust up, and knew that my uncle had come to his observatory. By what light there was, he would see Alan standing, like a dark shadow, on the steps; the three witnesses were hidden quite out of his view; so that there was nothing to alarm an honest man in his own house. For all that, he studied his visitor awhile in silence, and when he spoke his voice had a quaver of misgiving.
有一段时间，艾伦猛烈地敲门，他的敲门声只引起了房子和邻居的回声。然而，最后我听到了窗户轻轻推开的声音，我知道叔叔已经来到了他的天文台。借着光线，他会看到艾伦站在台阶上，像一个黑影。三个证人都藏在他看不见的地方。这样一来，一个诚实的人在自己家里就不会感到惊慌。尽管如此，他还是默默地打量了这位来访者一会儿，说话时声音里带着疑虑的颤抖。

‘What’s this?’ says he. ‘This is nae kind of time of night for decent folk; and I hae nae trokings[34] wi’ night-hawks. What brings ye here? I have a blunderbush.’
“这是什么？”他说。 “对于正派的人来说，这不是一个夜晚的时间；我不喜欢夜鹰[34]。是什么把你们吹到这里来的？我有一个大错。

[34]Dealings.
[34]交易。

‘Is that yoursel’, Mr. Balfour?’ returned Alan, stepping back and looking up into the darkness. ‘Have a care of that blunderbuss; they’re nasty things to burst.’
“是你吗，贝尔福先生？”艾伦回答道，后退一步，抬头望向黑暗。 “小心那个笨蛋；它们是令人讨厌的东西，很难爆炸。

‘What brings ye here? and whae are ye?’ says my uncle, angrily.
‘什么风把你们吹到这里来了？ “你们是谁？”我叔叔愤怒地说。

‘I have no manner of inclination to rowt out my name to the country-side,’ said Alan; ‘but what brings me here is another story, being more of your affair than mine; and if ye’re sure it’s what ye would like, I’ll set it to a tune and sing it to you.’
“我无意向乡村宣扬我的名字，”艾伦说。 “但把我带到这里的是另一个故事，更多的是你的事而不是我的事；如果你确定这是你想要的，我会把它调好并唱给你听。

‘And what is’t?’ asked my uncle.
“那什么不是呢？”叔叔问。

‘David,’ says Alan.
“大卫，”艾伦说。

‘What was that?’ cried my uncle, in a mighty changed voice.
“那是什么？”叔叔大声喊道，声音大变。

‘Shall I give ye the rest of the name, then?’ said Alan.
“那么我可以告诉你剩下的名字吗？”艾伦说。

There was a pause; and then, ‘I’m thinking I’ll better let ye in,’ says my uncle, doubtfully.
一阵停顿。然后，“我想我最好让你们进来，”我叔叔怀疑地说。

‘I dare say that,’ said Alan; ‘but the point is, Would I go? Now I will tell you what I am thinking. I am thinking that it is here upon this doorstep that we must confer upon this business; and it shall be here or nowhere at all whatever; for I would have you to understand that I am as stiffnecked as yoursel’, and a gentleman of better family.’
“我敢这么说，”艾伦说。但问题是，我会去吗？现在我将告诉你我的想法。我想我们必须在这家门口商量这件事；它要么在这里，要么根本不在任何地方；因为我想让你明白，我和你一样顽固，是一位出身较好的绅士。

This change of note disconcerted Ebenezer; he was a little while digesting it, and then says he, ‘Weel, weel, what must be must,’ and shut the window. But it took him a long time to get down-stairs, and a still longer to undo the fastenings, repenting (I dare say) and taken with fresh claps of fear at every second step and every bolt and bar. At last, however, we heard the creak of the hinges, and it seems my uncle slipped gingerly out and (seeing that Alan had stepped back a pace or two) sate him down on the top doorstep with the blunderbuss ready in his hands.
这种语气的变化让埃比尼泽感到不安。他消化了一会儿，然后说：“哎呀，哎呀，一定是一定的，”然后关上了窗户。但他花了很长时间才下楼，解开紧固装置的时间更长，他正在悔恨（我敢说），每迈出第二步，每打开一个螺栓和杆，他都会感到新的​​恐惧。然而，最后，我们听到了铰链的吱吱声，看来我叔叔小心翼翼地溜了出去，（看到艾伦后退了一两步）让他坐在最上面的门阶上，手里拿着铳。

‘And, now’ says he, ‘mind I have my blunderbush, and if ye take a step nearer ye’re as good as deid.’
“现在，”他说，“请注意，我有我的大头针，如果你们再靠近一点，你们就和上帝一样了。”

‘And a very civil speech,’ says Alan, ‘to be sure.’
“当然，这是一次非常有礼貌的演讲，”艾伦说。

‘Na,’ says my uncle, ‘but this is no a very chanty kind of a proceeding, and I’m bound to be prepared. And now that we understand each other, ye’ll can name your business.’
“不，”我叔叔说，“但这不是一个非常高调的诉讼，我必须做好准备。现在我们互相了解了，你们就可以为自己的公司命名了。

‘Why,’ says Alan, ‘you that are a man of so much understanding, will doubtless have perceived that I am a Hieland gentleman. My name has nae business in my story; but the county of my friends is no very far from the Isle of Mull, of which ye will have heard. It seems there was a ship lost in those parts; and the next day a gentleman of my family was seeking wreck-wood for his fire along the sands, when he came upon a lad that was half drowned. Well, he brought him to; and he and some other gentleman took and clapped him in an auld, ruined castle, where from that day to this he has been a great expense to my friends. My friends are a wee wild-like, and not so particular about the law as some that I could name; and finding that the lad owned some decent folk, and was your born nephew, Mr. Balfour, they asked me to give ye a bit call and confer upon the matter. And I may tell ye at the off-go, unless we can agree upon some terms, ye are little likely to set eyes upon him. For my friends,’ added Alan, simply, ‘are no very well off.’
“哎呀，”艾伦说，“你这么有见识的人，毫无疑问会看出我是一位希兰绅士。我的名字与我的故事无关；但我朋友的县离马尔岛不远，你们一定听说过。似乎有一艘船在这些地方失踪了；第二天，我家的一位绅士沿着沙滩寻找沉木生火，这时他发现了一个半淹死的小伙子。好吧，他把他带到了；他和其他一位绅士把他带到了一座古老的、破败的城堡里，并把他拍了下来，从那天起，他一直是我朋友们的一大损失。我的朋友们有点疯狂，不像我能说出的一些人那样对法律那么挑剔。他们发现这个小伙子拥有一些正派的人，而且是你的亲生侄子，贝尔福先生，他们让我给你打电话，商量一下此事。我可以告诉你们，除非我们能就某些条款达成一致，否则你们不太可能看到他。对于我的朋友来说，”艾伦简单地补充道，“他们的生活并不富裕。”

My uncle cleared his throat. ‘I’m no very caring,’ says he. ‘He wasnae a good lad at the best of it, and I’ve nae call to interfere.’
我叔叔清了清嗓子。 “我不太关心，”他说。 “他充其量只是一个好小伙子，我不会要求干涉。”

‘Ay, ay,’ said Alan, ‘I see what ye would be at: pretending ye don’t care, to make the ransom smaller.’
“哎呀，哎呀，”艾伦说，“我明白你们会做什么：假装你们不在乎，这样就能减少赎金。”

‘Na,’ said my uncle, ‘it’s the mere truth. I take nae manner of interest in the lad, and I’ll pay nae ransome, and ye can make a kirk and a mill of him for what I care.’
“不，”叔叔说，“这只是事实。”我对这个小伙子一点兴趣都没有，我也不会付赎金，你们可以为了我关心的事情把他变成一个柯克和一个磨坊。

‘Hoot, sir,’ says Alan. ‘Blood’s thicker than water, in the deil’s name! Ye cannae desert your brother’s son for the fair shame of it; and if ye did, and it came to be kennt, ye wouldnae be very popular in your country-side, or I’m the more deceived.’
“嘘，先生，”艾伦说。 “以恶魔之名，血浓于水！”你们不能因为丢脸而抛弃你们兄弟的儿子；如果你们这样做了，而且变成了肯特，你们在你们的乡村就不会很受欢迎，否则我就更受欺骗了。

‘I’m no just very popular the way it is,’ returned Ebenezer; ‘and I dinnae see how it would come to be kennt. No by me, onyway; nor yet by you or your friends. So that’s idle talk, my buckie,’ says he.
“我不仅很受欢迎，”埃比尼泽回答道。 “我不知道它会如何变得肯特。”无论如何，我不同意；也不是你或你的朋友。所以那是废话，我的巴基，”他说。

‘Then it’ll have to be David that tells it,’ said Alan.
“那么就必须由大卫来讲述了，”艾伦说。

‘How that?’ says my uncle, sharply.’
“怎么样？”我叔叔尖锐地说。

‘Ou, just this, way’ says Alan. ‘My friends would doubtless keep your nephew as long as there was any likelihood of siller to be made of it, but if there was nane, I am clearly of opinion they would let him gang where he pleased, and be damned to him!’
“哦，就这样，”艾伦说。 “我的朋友们毫无疑问会保留你的侄子，只要有任何可能成为傻子，但如果有的话，我显然认为他们会让他随心所欲地帮派，并让他受诅咒！”

‘Ay, but I’m no very caring about that either,’ said my uncle. ‘I wouldnae be muckle made up with that.’
“是的，但我也不太关心这个，”我叔叔说。 “我不会因此而变得一团糟。”

‘I was thinking that,’ said Alan.
“我就是这么想的，”艾伦说。

‘And what for why?’ asked Ebenezer.
“为什么呢？”埃比尼泽问道。

‘Why, Mr. Balfour,’ replied Alan, ‘by all that I could hear, there were two ways of it: either ye liked David and would pay to get him back; or else ye had very good reasons for not wanting him, and would pay for us to keep him. It seems it’s not the first; well then, it’s the second; and blythe am I to ken it, for it should be a pretty penny in my pocket and the pockets of my friends.’
“哎呀，贝尔福先生，”艾伦回答道，“据我所知，有两种办法：要么你喜欢大卫，愿意出钱让他回来；要么你喜欢大卫，愿意花钱让他回来；要么你喜欢大卫，愿意花钱让他回来；要么你喜欢大卫，愿意花钱让他回来。”否则你们就有充分的理由不想要他，并且愿意付钱给我们留住他。这似乎不是第一个；那么，这是第二个；我实在不敢相信，因为这在我和我朋友的口袋里应该是一笔相当可观的钱。

‘I dinnae follow ye there,’ said my uncle.
“我不会跟着你们去那里，”我叔叔说。

‘No?’ said Alan. ‘Well, see here: you dinnae want the lad back; well, what do ye want done with him, and how much will ye pay?’
“没有？”艾伦说。 “好吧，看这里：你肯定想要那个小伙子回来；好吧，你们想对他做什么？你们愿意付多少钱？

My uncle made no answer, but shifted uneasily on his seat.
舅舅没有回答，只是不安地在座位上动了动。

‘Come, sir,’ cried Alan. ‘I would have you to ken that I am a gentleman; I bear a king’s name; I am nae rider to kick my shanks at your hall door. Either give me an answer in civility, and that out of hand; or by the top of Glencoe, I will ram three feet of iron through your vitals.’
“来吧，先生，”艾伦喊道。 “我希望你知道我是一位绅士；我拥有国王的名字；我绝不会用我的小腿踢你的大厅门。要么礼貌地回答我，而且要立即回答；或者在格伦科山顶，我会用三英尺厚的铁锤击穿你的要害。

‘Eh, man,’ cried my uncle, scrambling to his feet, ‘give me a meenit! What’s like wrong with ye? I’m just a plain man and nae dancing master; and I’m tryin to be as ceevil as it’s morally possible. As for that wild talk, it’s fair disrepitable. Vitals, says you! And where would I be with my blunderbush?’ he snarled.
“呃，伙计，”我叔叔爬起来喊道，“给我一点！”你们有什么问题吗？我只是一个普通人，又不是舞蹈大师；我正在努力在道德上尽可能地保持邪恶。至于那种胡言乱语，实在是令人不齿。生命体，你说！ “我带着我的大头刺会在哪里呢？”他咆哮道。

‘Powder and your auld hands are but as the snail to the swallow against the bright steel in the hands of Alan,’ said the other. ‘Before your jottering finger could find the trigger, the hilt would dirl on your breast-bane.’
“火药和你那双友善的双手，与艾伦手中明亮的钢铁相比，就像蜗牛到燕子一样。”另一个说道。 “在你颤抖的手指找到扳机之前，剑柄就会刺到你的胸前。”

‘Eh, man, whae’s denying it?’ said my uncle. ‘Pit it as ye please, hae’t your ain way; I’ll do naething to cross ye. Just tell me what like ye’ll be wanting, and ye’ll see that we’ll can agree fine.’
“呃，伙计，谁否认这一点呢？”我叔叔说。 ‘想怎么挖就怎么挖吧，你没办法；我不会做任何事来惹怒你们。只要告诉我你想要什么，你就会发现我们会很好地达成一致。

‘Troth, sir,’ said Alan, ‘I ask for nothing but plain dealing. In two words: do ye want the lad killed or kept?’
“老实说，先生，”艾伦说，“我只求坦诚相待。”用两个词来说：你想杀掉这个小伙子还是留下他？

‘O, sirs!’ cried Ebenezer. ‘O, sirs, me! that’s no kind of language!’
“噢，先生们！”埃比尼泽喊道。 ‘哦，先生们，我！那不是一种语言！

‘Killed or kept!’ repeated Alan.
“要么被杀，要么被留下！”艾伦重复道。

‘O, keepit, keepit!’ wailed my uncle. ‘We’ll have nae bloodshed, if you please.’
“哦，坚持下去，坚持下去！”我叔叔哀嚎道。 “如果你愿意的话，我们不会发生流血事件。”

‘Well,’ says Alan, ‘as ye please; that’ll be the dearer.’
“好吧，”艾伦说，“随你便吧；那会更贵。

‘The dearer?’ cries Ebenezer. ‘Would ye fyle your hands wi’ crime?’
“更亲爱的？”埃比尼泽喊道。 “你们愿意犯罪吗？”

‘Hoot!’ said Alan, ‘they’re baith crime, whatever! And the killing’s easier, and quicker, and surer. Keeping the lad’ll be a fashious[35] job, a fashious, kittle business.’
“哎呀！”艾伦说，“无论如何，他们是在诱饵犯罪！”而且杀戮更容易、更快、更确定。留住这个小伙子将是一项时尚[35]的工作，一项时尚而琐碎的事情。

[35]Troublesome.
[35] 麻烦。

‘I’ll have him keepit, though,’ returned my uncle. ‘I never had naething to do with onything morally wrong; and I’m no gaun to begin to pleasure a wild Hielandman.’
“不过，我会让他保留它，”我叔叔回答道。 “我从来不参与任何道德上错误的事情；我可没勇气去取悦一个狂野的希兰德人。”

‘Ye’re unco scrupulous,’ sneered Alan.
“你们真是不顾一切，”艾伦冷笑道。

‘I’m a man o’ principle,’ said Ebenezer, simply; ‘and if I have to pay for it, I’ll have to pay for it. And besides,’ says he, ‘ye forget the lad’s my brother’s son.’
“我是一个讲原则的人，”埃比尼泽简单地说。 ‘如果我必须为此付出代价，我就必须付出代价。而且，”他说，“你们忘记了这个小伙子是我兄弟的儿子。”

‘Well, well,’ said Alan, ‘and now about the price. It’s no very easy for me to set a name upon it; I would first have to ken some small matters. I would have to ken, for instance, what ye gave Hoseason at the first off-go?’
“好吧，好吧，”艾伦说，“现在谈谈价格。”对我来说，给它起个名字并不容易。我首先必须了解一些小问题。例如，我必须知道，你在第一次离开时给了霍西森什么？

‘Hoseason!’ cries my uncle, struck aback. ‘What for?’
“Hoseason！”我叔叔大吃一惊，喊道。 '做什么的？'

‘For kidnapping David,’ says Alan.
“绑架大卫，”艾伦说。

‘It’s a lee, it’s a black lee!’ cried my uncle. ‘He was never kidnapped. He leed in his throat that tauld ye that. Kidnapped? He never was!’
“这是一条李河，这是一条黑李河！”我叔叔喊道。 “他从未被绑架过。他的喉咙里流了泪，才引起你们的注意。被绑架了？他从来都不是！

‘That’s no fault of mine nor yet of yours,’ said Alan; ‘nor yet of Hoseason’s, if he’s a man that can be trusted.’
“这既不是我的错，也不是你的错，”艾伦说。 “如果霍萨森是一个值得信任的人的话，他也不会。”

‘What do ye mean?’ cried Ebenezer. ‘Did Hoseason tell ye?’
“你们这是什么意思？”埃比尼泽喊道。 “霍塞森告诉你了吗？”

‘Why, ye donnered auld runt, how else would I ken?’ cried Alan. ‘Hoseason and me are partners; we gang shares; so ye can see for yoursel’ what good ye can do leeing. And I must plainly say ye drove a fool’s bargain when ye let a man like the sailor-man so far forward in your private matters. But that’s past praying for; and ye must lie on your bed the way ye made it. And the point in hand is just this: what did ye pay him?’
“哎呀，你们这些穿衣服的小矮子，不然我还能怎么办呢？”艾伦喊道。 “霍西森和我是合作伙伴；我们帮派股份；这样你们就能亲眼看到你们能做些什么好事。我必须坦白地说，当你们让像水手这样的人在你们的私人事务上如此行事时，你们是在进行愚蠢的讨价还价。但这已经是过去的祈祷了；你们必须按照你们原来的样子躺在床上。现在的重点是：你们付给了他多少钱？

‘Has he tauld ye himsel’?’ asked my uncle.
“他亲自告诉过你们吗？”我叔叔问。

‘That’s my concern,’ said Alan.
“这是我关心的，”艾伦说。

‘Weel,’ said my uncle, ‘I dinnae care what he said, he leed, and the solemn God’s truth is this, that I gave him twenty pound. But I’ll be perfec’ly honest with ye: forby that, he was to have the selling of the lad in Caroliny, whilk would be as muckle mair, but no from my pocket, ye see.’
“好吧，”我叔叔说，“我不在乎他说什么，他听了，上帝说的实话是这样的，我给了他二十英镑。但我要对你们说实话：这样一来，他就可以把卡罗莱纳州的那个小伙子卖掉，虽然会像糊涂人一样，但不会从我的口袋里掏钱，你们瞧。

‘Thank you, Mr. Thomson. That will do excellently well,’ said the lawyer, stepping forward; and then mighty civilly, ‘Good-evening, Mr. Balfour,’ said he.
“谢谢你，汤姆森先生。 “那就太好了。”律师向前走去说道。然后他很有礼貌地说：“晚上好，贝尔福先生。”

And, ‘Good-evening, Uncle Ebenezer,’ said I.
我说：“晚上好，埃比尼泽叔叔。”

And, ‘It’s a braw nicht, Mr. Balfour’ added Torrance.
而且，“这不是斗殴行为，贝尔福先生”托伦斯补充道。

Never a word said my uncle, neither black nor white; but just sat where he was on the top door-step and stared upon us like a man turned to stone. Alan filched away his blunderbuss; and the lawyer, taking him by the arm, plucked him up from the doorstep, led him into the kitchen, whither we all followed, and set him down in a chair beside the hearth, where the fire was out and only a rush-light burning.
我叔叔从来没有说过一句话，无论是黑人还是白人；但他只是坐在最上面的台阶上，盯着我们，就像一个变成石头的人。艾伦偷走了他的大铳。律师拉着他的胳膊，把他从门口的台阶上拉起来，带他走进厨房，我们都跟着去了厨房，把他放在壁炉边的椅子上，壁炉里的火已经灭了，只有灯芯草灯。燃烧。

There we all looked upon him for a while, exulting greatly in our success, but yet with a sort of pity for the man’s shame.
我们大家都看了他一会儿，为我们的成功而欣喜若狂，但同时又对这个人的耻辱感到怜悯。

‘Come, come, Mr. Ebenezer,’ said the lawyer, ‘you must not be down-hearted, for I promise you we shall make easy terms. In the meanwhile give us the cellar key, and Torrance shall draw us a bottle of your father’s wine in honour of the event.’ Then, turning to me and taking me by the hand, ‘Mr. David,’ says he, ‘I wish you all joy in your good fortune, which I believe to be deserved.’ And then to Alan, with a spice of drollery, ‘Mr. Thomson, I pay you my compliment; it was most artfully conducted; but in one point you somewhat outran my comprehension. Do I understand your name to be James? or Charles? or is it George, perhaps?’
“来吧，来吧，埃比尼泽先生，”律师说道，“你一定不要灰心丧气，因为我向你保证，我们会达成轻松的条件。”与此同时，请给我们地窖钥匙，托兰斯将为我们抽一瓶你父亲的葡萄酒以纪念这次活动。”然后，他转向我，握住我的手，“托伦斯先生。”大卫，”他说道，“我祝你一切顺利，我相信这是你应得的。”然后，带着滑稽的味道，对艾伦说道：“大卫先生。”汤姆森，我向你致敬；进行得非常巧妙；但有一点你有点超出了我的理解范围。我理解你的名字是詹姆斯吗？还是查尔斯？或者是乔治？

‘And why should it be any of the three, sir?’ quoth Alan, drawing himself up, like one who smelt an offence.
“为什么会是这三个中的任何一个呢，先生？”艾伦问道，他挺直了身子，就像闻到了冒犯的味道。

‘Only, sir, that you mentioned a king’s name,’ replied Rankeillor; ‘and as there has never yet been a King Thomson, or his fame at least has never come my way, I judged you must refer to that you had in baptism.’
“只是，先生，您提到了一位国王的名字，”兰基勒回答道。 “由于从来没有汤姆森国王，或者至少我从未获得过他的名声，我判断你必须提到你在洗礼中所受的洗礼。”

This was just the stab that Alan would feel keenest, and I am free to confess he took it very ill. Not a word would he answer, but stepped off to the far end of the kitchen, and sat down and sulked; and it was not till I stepped after him, and gave him my hand, and thanked him by title as the chief spring of my success, that he began to smile a bit, and was at last prevailed upon to join our party.
这正是艾伦感到最强烈的刺痛，我可以坦白承认他对此感到非常不舒服。他一言不发，只是走到厨房的另一头，坐下来生闷气。直到我跟在他身后，向他伸出了我的手，感谢他是我成功的主要源泉，他才开始微笑，最后终于被说服加入了我们的行列。

By that time we had the fire lighted, and a bottle of wine uncorked; a good supper came out of the basket, to which Torrance and I and Alan set ourselves down; while the lawyer and my uncle passed into the next chamber to consult. They stayed there closeted about an hour; at the end of which period they had come to a good understanding, and my uncle and I set our hands to the agreement in a formal manner. By the terms of this, my uncle bound himself to satisfy Rankeillor as to his intromissions, and to pay me two clear thirds of the yearly income of Shaws.
那时我们已经点起了火，一瓶酒也被打开了。篮子里端出了丰盛的晚餐，托兰斯、我和艾伦坐下来享用。律师和叔叔则走进隔壁房间商量。他们秘密地在那里呆了大约一个小时；在此期间结束时，他们达成了良好的谅解，我和叔叔正式签署了协议。根据这个条款，我叔叔有义务让兰基勒满意他的内情，并付给我肖氏年收入的三分之二。

So the beggar in the ballad had come home; and when I lay down that night on the kitchen chests, I was a man of means and had a name in the country. Alan and Torrance and Rankeillor slept and snored on their hard beds; but for me who had lain out under heaven and upon dirt and stones, so many days and nights, and often with an empty belly, and in fear of death, this good change in my case unmanned me more than any of the former evil ones; and I lay till dawn, looking at the fire on the roof and planning the future.
歌谣里的乞丐就这样回家了；那天晚上，当我躺在厨房的箱子上时，我已经是一个有钱人了，在乡下有了名气。艾伦、托伦斯和兰基勒在他们的硬床上睡觉并打鼾。但对我来说，这个在天底下、在泥土和石头上躺了很多个日日夜夜、常常空着肚子、害怕死亡的人来说，这种良好的变化比以前的任何邪恶的变化都更让我感到无助。 ;我躺到天亮，看着屋顶上的火，规划着未来。

CHAPTER XXX
第三章


GOOD-BYE
再见

So far as I was concerned myself, I had come to port; but I had still Alan, to whom I was so much beholden, on my hands; and I felt besides a heavy charge in the matter of the murder and James of the Glens. On both these heads I unbosomed to Rankeillor the next morning, walking to and fro about six of the clock before the house of Shaws, and with nothing in view but the fields and woods that had been my ancestors’ and were now mine. Even as I spoke on these grave subjects, my eye would take a glad bit of a run over the prospect, and my heart jump with pride.
就我自己而言，我已经到了港口。但我手上还有艾伦，我非常感激他。除了谋杀案和峡谷的詹姆斯这件事之外，我还感到了沉重的负担。第二天早上，我在这两个头上向兰基勒敞开胸怀，大约六点钟左右在肖斯宅邸前来回走动，除了曾经属于我祖先、现在属于我的田野和树林之外，什么也没有看到。即使当我谈论这些严肃的话题时，我的眼睛也会高兴地扫过前景，我的心自豪地跳动。

About my clear duty to my friend, the lawyer had no doubt. I must help him out of the county at whatever risk; but in the case of James, he was of a different mind.
对于我对朋友的明确义务，律师毫不怀疑。我必须不惜一切代价帮助他离开县城；但对于詹姆斯来说，他却有不同的想法。

‘Mr. Thomson,’ says he, ‘is one thing, Mr. Thomson’s kinsman quite another. I know little of the facts, but I gather that a great noble (whom we will call, if you like, the D. of A.)[36] has some concern and is even supposed to feel some animosity in the matter. The D. of A. is doubtless an excellent nobleman; but, Mr. David, timeo qui nocuere deos. If you interfere to balk his vengeance, you should remember there is one way to shut your testimony out; and that is to put you in the dock. There, you would be in the same pickle as Mr. Thomson’s kinsman. You will object that you are innocent; well, but so is he. And to be tried for your life before a Highland jury, on a Highland quarrel and with a Highland Judge upon the bench, would be a brief transition to the gallows.’
'先生。汤姆森，”他说，“是一回事，汤姆森先生的亲戚则完全是另一回事。我对事实知之甚少，但我推测一位伟大的贵族（如果你愿意的话，我们可以称他为A.的D.）[36]对此事有一些担忧，甚至应该感到一些敌意。 A.的D.无疑是一位优秀的贵族；但是，大卫先生，现在是时候了。如果你干涉阻止他的报复，你应该记住有一种方法可以阻止你的证词：那就是把你送上被告席。在那里，你将和汤姆森先生的亲戚一样陷入困境。你会反对说你是无辜的；好吧，但他也是。在高地陪审团面前，在高地争吵中，在高地法官的法官席上接受终身审判，将是向绞刑架的短暂过渡。

[36]The Duke of Argyle.
[36]阿盖尔公爵。

Now I had made all these reasonings before and found no very good reply to them; so I put on all the simplicity I could. ‘In that case, sir,’ said I, ‘I would just have to be hanged — would I not?’
我之前已经提出了所有这些推理，但没有找到很好的答案。所以我尽可能地表现得简单。 “那样的话，先生，”我说，“我就只能被绞死了——不是吗？”

‘My dear boy,’ cries he, ‘go in God’s name, and do what you think is right. It is a poor thought that at my time of life I should be advising you to choose the safe and shameful; and I take it back with an apology. Go and do your duty; and be hanged, if you must, like a gentleman. There are worse things in the world than to be hanged.’
“我亲爱的孩子，”他喊道，“以上帝的名义去做你认为正确的事吧。”在我这个年纪，我应该建议你选择安全和可耻的事情，这真是一个糟糕的想法。我收回这句话并表示歉意。去履行你的职责；如果必须的话，像个绅士一样被绞死。世界上还有比被绞死更糟糕的事情。”

‘Not many, sir,’ said I, smiling.
“不多，先生。”我微笑着说道。

‘Why, yes, sir,’ he cried, ‘very many. And it would be ten times better for your uncle (to go no farther afield) if he were dangling decently upon a gibbet.’
“哎呀，是的，先生，”他喊道，“很多。”如果你的叔叔能体面地吊在绞刑架上（不要再去更远的地方），那会好十倍。

Thereupon he turned into the house (still in a great fervour of mind, so that I saw I had pleased him heartily) and there he wrote me two letters, making his comments on them as he wrote.
于是他转身进了屋子（心里仍然充满热情，所以我看出我让他由衷地高兴），在那里他给我写了两封信，边写边发表了他的评论。

‘This,’ says he, ‘is to my bankers, the British Linen Company, placing a credit to your name. Consult Mr. Thomson, he will know of ways; and you, with this credit, can supply the means. I trust you will be a good husband of your money; but in the affair of a friend like Mr. Thompson, I would be even prodigal. Then for his kinsman, there is no better way than that you should seek the Advocate, tell him your tale, and offer testimony; whether he may take it or not, is quite another matter, and will turn on the D. of A. Now, that you may reach the Lord Advocate well recommended, I give you here a letter to a namesake of your own, the learned Mr. Balfour of Pilrig, a man whom I esteem. It will look better that you should be presented by one of your own name; and the laird of Pilrig is much looked up to in the Faculty and stands well with Lord Advocate Grant. I would not trouble him, if I were you, with any particulars; and (do you know?) I think it would be needless to refer to Mr. Thomson. Form yourself upon the laird, he is a good model; when you deal with the Advocate, be discreet; and in all these matters, may the Lord guide you, Mr. David!’
他说：“这是给我的银行家英国亚麻公司的，记在你的名下。”请教汤姆森先生，他会知道办法；有了这个信用，你就可以提供资金。我相信你会成为你金钱的好丈夫；但在像汤普森先生这样的朋友的事情上，我什至会挥霍无度。那么对于他的亲属来说，没有比你去找辩护律师更好的办法了，告诉他你的故事，并提供证词；无论他是否接受，都是另一回事，并且会转向A的D。现在，为了你可以得到很好推荐的辩护律师，我在这里给你一封信，写给你自己的同名者，一位博学的人Pilrig 的贝尔福先生是我尊敬的人。如果以您自己的名字来介绍您，会显得更好；皮尔里格的领主在学院里很受尊敬，并且与检察长格兰特的关系很好。如果我是你，我就不会向他透露任何细节； （你知道吗？）我认为没有必要提及汤姆森先生。效仿领主，他是个好榜样；当您与辩护人打交道时，要谨慎；在所有这些事情上，愿主引导你，大卫先生！

Thereupon he took his farewell, and set out with Torrance for the Ferry, while Alan and I turned our faces for the city of Edinburgh. As we went by the footpath and beside the gateposts and the unfinished lodge, we kept looking back at the house of my fathers. It stood there, bare and great and smokeless, like a place not lived in; only in one of the top windows, there was the peak of a nightcap bobbing up and down and back and forward, like the head of a rabbit from a burrow. I had little welcome when I came, and less kindness while I stayed; but at least I was watched as I went away.
于是他告别了，和托伦斯一起出发前往渡轮，而艾伦和我则转身前往爱丁堡市。当我们走过人行道、门柱和未完工的小屋旁边时，我们不断回头看我父亲的房子。它矗立在那里，光秃秃的，巨大的，没有烟雾，就像一个无人居住的地方。只有最上面的一扇窗户里，有一顶睡帽的顶端在上下、前后摆动，就像从洞穴里出来的兔子头一样。我来的时候没有受到多少欢迎，留下来的时候也没有受到多少善意的对待。但至少我离开时有人看着我。

Alan and I went slowly forward upon our way, having little heart either to walk or speak. The same thought was uppermost in both, that we were near the time of our parting; and remembrance of all the bygone days sate upon us sorely. We talked indeed of what should be done; and it was resolved that Alan should keep to the county, biding now here, now there, but coming once in the day to a particular place where I might be able to communicate with him, either in my own person or by messenger. In the meanwhile, I was to seek out a lawyer, who was an Appin Stewart, and a man therefore to be wholly trusted; and it should be his part to find a ship and to arrange for Alan’s safe embarkation. No sooner was this business done, than the words seemed to leave us; and though I would seek to jest with Alan under the name of Mr. Thomson, and he with me on my new clothes and my estate, you could feel very well that we were nearer tears than laughter.
我和艾伦慢慢地向前走，既不敢走路，也不敢说话。两人心中最重要的是同一个想法：我们即将分别。对过去的日子的回忆让我们感到痛苦。我们确实讨论了应该做什么；会议决定让艾伦留在县里，一会儿待在这里，一会儿待在那里，但每天到一个特定的地方来一次，在那里我可以亲自或通过信使与他沟通。与此同时，我要寻找一位律师，他是阿平·斯图尔特（Appin Stewart），因此是一个值得完全信任的人。他的职责应该是找到一艘船并安排艾伦安全登船。事情一结束，我们似乎就忘记了这句话。尽管我会以汤姆森先生的名义与艾伦开玩笑，而他也会以我的新衣服和我的财产来与我开玩笑，但你可以清楚地感觉到，我们更接近泪水而不是笑声。

We came the by-way over the hill of Corstorphine; and when we got near to the place called Rest-and-be-Thankful, and looked down on Corstorphine bogs and over to the city and the castle on the hill, we both stopped, for we both knew without a word said that we had come to where our ways parted. Here he repeated to me once again what had been agreed upon between us: the address of the lawyer, the daily hour at which Alan might be found, and the signals that were to be made by any that came seeking him. Then I gave what money I had (a guinea or two of Rankeillor’s) so that he should not starve in the meanwhile; and then we stood a space, and looked over at Edinburgh in silence.
我们沿着小路翻过科斯托芬山。当我们接近那个叫“休息并感恩”的地方，俯视科斯托芬沼泽，俯视这座城市和山上的城堡时，我们都停了下来，因为我们都知道，无需多言，我们已经来到我们分道扬镳的地方。在这里，他再次向我重复了我们之间商定的内容：律师的地址、每天可以找到艾伦的时间以及任何前来寻找他的人应发出的信号。然后我捐出了我所有的钱（兰基勒的一两几尼），这样他在此期间就不会挨饿了。然后我们站了一个空位，静静地看着爱丁堡。

‘Well, good-bye,’ said Alan, and held out his left hand.
“好吧，再见，”艾伦说着，伸出了左手。

‘Good-bye,’ said I, and gave the hand a little grasp, and went off down hill.
“再见。”我说着，轻轻握住了他的手，就下了山。

Neither one of us looked the other in the face, nor so long as he was in my view did I take one back glance at the friend I was leaving. But as I went on my way to the city, I felt so lost and lonesome, that I could have found it in my heart to sit down by the dyke, and cry and weep like any baby.
我们谁都没有看对方的脸，只要他在我的视野中，我就不会回头看我即将离开的朋友。但当我走在去城里的路上时，我感到如此失落和孤独，我本可以在心里找到坐在堤坝边，像婴儿一样哭泣和哭泣的感觉。

It was coming near noon when I passed in by the West Kirk and the Grassmarket into the streets of the capital. The huge height of the buildings, running up to ten and fifteen storeys, the narrow arched entries that continually vomited passengers, the wares of the merchants in their windows, the hubbub and endless stir, the foul smells and the fine clothes, and a hundred other particulars too small to mention, struck me into a kind of stupor of surprise, so that I let the crowd carry me to and fro; and yet all the time what I was thinking of was Alan at Rest-and-be-Thankful; and all the time (although you would think I would not choose but be delighted with these braws and novelties) there was a cold gnawing in my inside like a remorse for something wrong.
当我经过西柯克和格拉斯市场进入首都的街道时，已经接近中午了。建筑物的巨大高度，高达十层和十五层，狭窄的拱形入口不断地吐出乘客，商人的商品橱窗里，喧嚣和无尽的骚动，恶臭和精美的衣服，以及一百多还有一些细节太小，无法一一提及，让我惊讶得目瞪口呆，于是我让人群带着我来回走动。然而我一直在想的是艾伦在休息和感恩中；一直以来（尽管你可能认为我不会选择，而是对这些勇气和新奇事物感到高兴），我的内心深处有一种寒冷的啃咬，就像对某些错误的悔恨。

The hand of Providence brought me in my drifting to the very doors of the British Linen Company’s bank.
上帝之手把我带到了英国亚麻公司银行的门口。