
The Trial
试用

By Franz Kafka (1925)
弗朗茨·卡夫卡 (1925)

Translated by David Wyllie
大卫·威利 译

Chapter One
第一章

Arrest Conversation with Mrs. Grubach Then Miss Bürstner
与格鲁巴赫夫人和布尔斯特纳小姐的逮捕对话

Someone must have been telling lies about Josef K., he knew he had done nothing wrong but, one morning, he was arrested. Every day at eight in the morning he was brought his breakfast by Mrs. Grubach’s cook Mrs. Grubach was his landlady but today she didn’t come. That had never happened before. K. waited a little while, looked from his pillow at the old woman who lived opposite and who was watching him with an inquisitiveness quite unusual for her, and finally, both hungry and disconcerted, rang the bell. There was immediately a knock at the door and a man entered. He had never seen the man in this house before. He was slim but firmly built, his clothes were black and close-fitting, with many folds and pockets, buckles and buttons and a belt, all of which gave the impression of being very practical but without making it very clear what they were actually for. “Who are you?” asked K., sitting half upright in his bed. The man, however, ignored the question as if his arrival simply had to be accepted, and merely replied, “You rang?” “Anna should have brought me my breakfast,” said K. He tried to work out who the man actually was, first in silence, just through observation and by thinking about it, but the man didn’t stay still to be looked at for very long. Instead he went over to the door, opened it slightly, and said to someone who was clearly standing immediately behind it, “He wants Anna to bring him his breakfast.” There was a little laughter in the neighbouring room, it was not clear from the sound of it whether there were several people laughing. The strange man could not have learned anything from it that he hadn’t known already, but now he said to K., as if making his report “It is not possible.” “It would be the first time that’s happened,” said K., as he jumped out of bed and quickly pulled on his trousers. “I want to see who that is in the next room, and why it is that Mrs. Grubach has let me be disturbed in this way.” It immediately occurred to him that he needn’t have said this out loud, and that he must to some extent have acknowledged their authority by doing so, but that didn’t seem important to him at the time. That, at least, is how the stranger took it, as he said, “Don’t you think you’d better stay where you are?” “I want neither to stay here nor to be spoken to by you until you’ve introduced yourself.” “I meant it for your own good,” said the stranger and opened the door, this time without being asked. The next room, which K. entered more slowly than he had intended, looked at first glance exactly the same as it had the previous evening. It was Mrs. Grubach’s living room, over-filled with furniture, tablecloths, porcelain and photographs. Perhaps there was a little more space in there than usual today, but if so it was not immediately obvious, especially as the main difference was the presence of a man sitting by the open window with a book from which he now looked up. “You should have stayed in your room! Didn’t Franz tell you?” “And what is it you want, then?” said K., looking back and forth between this new acquaintance and the one named Franz, who had remained in the doorway. Through the open window he noticed the old woman again, who had come close to the window opposite so that she could continue to see everything. She was showing an inquisitiveness that really made it seem like she was going senile. “I want to see Mrs. Grubach … ,” said K., making a movement as if tearing himself away from the two men even though they were standing well away from him and wanted to go. “No,” said the man at the window, who threw his book down on a coffee table and stood up. “You can’t go away when you’re under arrest.” “That’s how it seems,” said K. “And why am I under arrest?” he then asked. “That’s something we’re not allowed to tell you. Go into your room and wait there. Proceedings are underway and you’ll learn about everything all in good time. It’s not really part of my job to be friendly towards you like this, but I hope no-one, apart from Franz, will hear about it, and he’s been more friendly towards you than he should have been, under the rules, himself. If you carry on having as much good luck as you have been with your arresting officers then you can reckon on things going well with you.” K. wanted to sit down, but then he saw that, apart from the chair by the window, there was nowhere anywhere in the room where he could sit. “You’ll get the chance to see for yourself how true all this is,” said Franz and both men then walked up to K. They were significantly bigger than him, especially the second man, who frequently slapped him on the shoulder. The two of them felt K.’s nightshirt, and said he would now have to wear one that was of much lower quality, but that they would keep the nightshirt along with his other underclothes and return them to him if his case turned out well. “It’s better for you if you give us the things than if you leave them in the storeroom,” they said. “Things have a tendency to go missing in the storeroom, and after a certain amount of time they sell things off, whether the case involved has come to an end or not. And cases like this can last a long time, especially the ones that have been coming up lately. They’d give you the money they got for them, but it wouldn’t be very much as it’s not what they’re offered for them when they sell them that counts, it’s how much they get slipped on the side, and things like that lose their value anyway when they get passed on from hand to hand, year after year.” K. paid hardly any attention to what they were saying, he did not place much value on what he may have still possessed or on who decided what happened to them. It was much more important to him to get a clear understanding of his position, but he could not think clearly while these people were here, the second policeman’s belly and they could only be policemen looked friendly enough, sticking out towards him, but when K. looked up and saw his dry, boney face it did not seem to fit with the body. His strong nose twisted to one side as if ignoring K. and sharing an understanding with the other policeman. What sort of people were these? What were they talking about? What office did they belong to? K. was living in a free country, after all, everywhere was at peace, all laws were decent and were upheld, who was it who dared accost him in his own home? He was always inclined to take life as lightly as he could, to cross bridges when he came to them, pay no heed for the future, even when everything seemed under threat. But here that did not seem the right thing to do. He could have taken it all as a joke, a big joke set up by his colleagues at the bank for some unknown reason, or also perhaps because today was his thirtieth birthday, it was all possible of course, maybe all he had to do was laugh in the policemen’s face in some way and they would laugh with him, maybe they were tradesmen from the corner of the street, they looked like they might be but he was nonetheless determined, ever since he first caught sight of the one called Franz, not to lose any slight advantage he might have had over these people. There was a very slight risk that people would later say he couldn’t understand a joke, but although he wasn’t normally in the habit of learning from experience he might also have had a few unimportant occasions in mind when, unlike his more cautious friends, he had acted with no thought at all for what might follow and had been made to suffer for it. He didn’t want that to happen again, not this time at least; if they were play-acting he would act along with them.
一定是有人对约瑟夫·K. 撒了谎，他知道自己没有做错任何事，但一天早上，他被捕了。每天早上八点，格鲁巴赫夫人的厨师都会给他送早餐。格鲁巴赫夫人是他的女房东，但今天她没有来。这以前从未发生过。 K等了一会儿，从枕头上看了看住在对面的老妇人，她正用一种对她来说很不寻常的好奇心看着他，最后，既饥饿又不安，按响了门铃。立刻有人敲门，一个男人走了进来。他以前从未见过这个房子里的这个人。他身材瘦长，身材却很结实，衣服是黑色的，贴身，有很多褶皱和口袋，扣子和纽扣，还有皮带，给人一种很实用的感觉，但又不太清楚它们到底是做什么用的。 。 “你是谁？” K.半直地坐在床上问道。然而男人却没有理睬这个问题，仿佛他的到来就是接受一样，只是回答道：“你按铃了？” “安娜应该给我带早餐，”K 说。他试图弄清楚这个男人到底是谁，首先是在沉默中，只是通过观察和思考，但那个男人并没有停下来等待别人的注视。很长。相反，他走到门口，轻轻打开门，对显然站在门后的一个人说：“他要安娜给他送早餐。”隔壁房间里传来轻微的笑声，听不清是不是有几个人在笑。这个奇怪的人不可能从中学到任何他不知道的东西，但现在他对K说，好像在做报告“这是不可能的。” “这将是第一次发生，”K 说。，他从床上跳起来，迅速穿上裤子。 “我想看看隔壁房间里的人是谁，为什么格鲁巴赫太太让我受到这样的打扰。”他立刻想到，他不必大声说出来，而且他这样做一定在某种程度上承认了他们的权威，但当时这对他来说似乎并不重要。至少，陌生人是这么认为的，他说：“你不认为你最好留在原地吗？” “在你自我介绍之前，我不想留在这里，也不想和你说话。” “我是为了你好。”陌生人说道，然后打开了门，这一次没有人询问。 K.进入的下一个房间比他预想的要慢一些，乍一看和前一天晚上一模一样。这是格鲁巴赫夫人的客厅，里面摆满了家具、桌布、瓷器和照片。也许今天那里比平时多了一点空间，但即使是这样，也不是立即显而易见的，特别是因为主要的区别是一个男人坐在开着的窗户旁边，手里拿着一本书，他现在抬起头来。 “你应该留在你的房间里！弗兰茨没告诉你吗？” “那你想要什么？” K. 一边说，一边在这位新认识的人和留在门口的那个叫弗朗茨的人之间来回打量。透过开着的窗户，他再次看到了老妇人，她已经靠近对面的窗户，以便能继续看到一切。她表现出一种好奇心，真的让人觉得她快要老了。 “我想见格鲁巴赫夫人……”K. 说着，做了一个动作，好像要把自己从那两个男人身边拉开，尽管他们站得离他很远，想要走。 “不，”窗边的男人说，他把书扔到咖啡桌上，站了起来。 “当你被捕时，你不能离开。” “看来是这样，”K说，“那我为什么会被捕呢？”他接着问道。 “这是我们不能告诉你的事情。进入你的房间并在那里等待。诉讼正在进行中，您将及时了解一切。像这样对你友好并不是我工作的一部分，但我希望除了弗朗茨之外没有人会听到这件事，而且他对你的友好程度超出了他自己在规则下应有的程度。如果你继续像抓捕警察一样好运，那么你可以认为事情进展顺利。” K.想坐下，却发现房间里除了靠窗的椅子之外，已经没有地方可以坐了。 “你将有机会亲眼看看这一切是多么真实，”弗兰茨说，然后两个人走到 K 面前。他们比他大得多，尤其是第二个人，他经常拍他的肩膀。他们两人摸了摸 K. 的睡衣，并说他现在必须穿一件质量低得多的睡衣，但他们会将睡衣和他的其他内衣一起保留，如果他的案件结果顺利，他们会将它们归还给他。 “如果你把这些东西给我们，比把它们留在储藏室对你来说更好，”他们说。 “储藏室里的东西往往会丢失，并且在一段时间后，无论案件是否已经结束，他们都会把东西卖掉。而且这样的案例可能会持续很长时间，尤其是最近不断出现的案例。 他们会给你他们买来的钱，但不会太多，因为重要的不是他们出售时提供的价格，而是他们滑倒的金额，以及诸如此类的事情无论如何，当它们年复一年地从一只手传到另一只手时，它们就失去了价值。” K.几乎没有注意他们在说什么，他没有太重视他可能仍然拥有的东西，也没有太重视谁决定了他们发生的事情。对他来说，清楚地了解自己的位置更重要，但是当这些人在这里的时候，他无法清晰地思考，第二个警察的肚子，他们只能是警察，看起来足够友善，向他伸出了手，但是当K抬起头，看到他干枯、骨瘦如柴的脸，似乎与身体格格不入。他强壮的鼻子歪向一侧，仿佛无视K.并与另一名警察分享理解。这些人是什么样的人？他们在谈论什么？他们属于哪个办公室？ K生活在一个自由的国家，毕竟到处都是太平，法律正直，谁也敢在自己家里搭讪？他总是倾向于尽可能地轻视生活，走到桥上就过桥，不关心未来，即使一切似乎都受到威胁。但在这里，这似乎不是正确的做法。 他完全可以把这一切当作一个玩笑，是银行同事不知什么原因开的一个大玩笑，也可能是因为今天是他的三十岁生日，当然这一切都是有可能的，也许他所要做的就是以某种方式当着警察的面笑，他们也会和他一起笑，也许他们是街角的商人，他们看起来可能是，但他仍然下定了决心，自从他第一次看到那个叫弗朗兹的人以来，不要失去他对这些人可能拥有的任何一点优势。有一个很小的风险，人们后来会说他听不懂笑话，但尽管他通常没有从经验中学习的习惯，但与他更加谨慎的人不同，他也可能会想到一些不重要的场合。朋友们，他的行为根本没有考虑到接下来会发生什么，并因此而承受了痛苦。他不想再发生这样的事，至少这一次。如果他们在演戏，他就会跟着他们一起演。

He still had time. “Allow me,” he said, and hurried between the two policemen through into his room. “He seems sensible enough,” he heard them say behind him. Once in his room, he quickly pulled open the drawer of his writing desk, everything in it was very tidy but in his agitation he was unable to find the identification documents he was looking for straight away. He finally found his bicycle permit and was about to go back to the policemen with it when it seemed to him too petty, so he carried on searching until he found his birth certificate. Just as he got back in the adjoining room the door on the other side opened and Mrs. Grubach was about to enter. He only saw her for an instant, for as soon as she recognised K. she was clearly embarrassed, asked for forgiveness and disappeared, closing the door behind her very carefully. “Do come in,” K. could have said just then. But now he stood in the middle of the room with his papers in his hand and still looking at the door which did not open again. He stayed like that until he was startled out of it by the shout of the policeman who sat at the little table at the open window and, as K. now saw, was eating his breakfast. “Why didn’t she come in?” he asked. “She’s not allowed to,” said the big policeman. “You’re under arrest, aren’t you.” “But how can I be under arrest? And how come it’s like this?” “Now you’re starting again,” said the policeman, dipping a piece of buttered bread in the honeypot. “We don’t answer questions like that.” “You will have to answer them,” said K. “Here are my identification papers, now show me yours and I certainly want to see the arrest warrant.” “Oh, my God!” said the policeman. “In a position like yours, and you think you can start giving orders, do you? It won’t do you any good to get us on the wrong side, even if you think it will we’re probably more on your side that anyone else you know!” “That’s true, you know, you’d better believe it,” said Franz, holding a cup of coffee in his hand which he did not lift to his mouth but looked at K. in a way that was probably meant to be full of meaning but could not actually be understood. K. found himself, without intending it, in a mute dialogue with Franz, but then slapped his hand down on his papers and said, “Here are my identity documents.” “And what do you want us to do about it?” replied the big policeman, loudly. “The way you’re carrying on, it’s worse than a child. What is it you want? Do you want to get this great, bloody trial of yours over with quickly by talking about ID and arrest warrants with us? We’re just coppers, that’s all we are. Junior officers like us hardly know one end of an ID card from another, all we’ve got to do with you is keep an eye on you for ten hours a day and get paid for it. That’s all we are. Mind you, what we can do is make sure that the high officials we work for find out just what sort of person it is they’re going to arrest, and why he should be arrested, before they issue the warrant. There’s no mistake there. Our authorities as far as I know, and I only know the lowest grades, don’t go out looking for guilt among the public; it’s the guilt that draws them out, like it says in the law, and they have to send us police officers out. That’s the law. Where d’you think there’d be any mistake there?” “I don’t know this law,” said K. “So much the worse for you, then,” said the policeman. “It’s probably exists only in your heads,” said K., he wanted, in some way, to insinuate his way into the thoughts of the policemen, to re-shape those thoughts to his benefit or to make himself at home there. But the policeman just said dismissively, “You’ll find out when it affects you.” Franz joined in, and said, “Look at this, Willem, he admits he doesn’t know the law and at the same time insists he’s innocent.” “You’re quite right, but we can’t get him to understand a thing,” said the other. K. stopped talking with them; do I, he thought to himself, do I really have to carry on getting tangled up with the chattering of base functionaries like this? and they admit themselves that they are of the lowest position. They’re talking about things of which they don’t have the slightest understanding, anyway. It’s only because of their stupidity that they’re able to be so sure of themselves. I just need few words with someone of the same social standing as myself and everything will be incomparably clearer, much clearer than a long conversation with these two can make it. He walked up and down the free space in the room a couple of times, across the street he could see the old woman who, now, had pulled an old man, much older than herself, up to the window and had her arms around him. K. had to put an end to this display, “Take me to your superior,” he said. “As soon as he wants to see you. Not before,” said the policeman, the one called Willem. “And now my advice to you,” he added, “is to go into your room, stay calm, and wait and see what’s to be done with you. If you take our advice, you won’t tire yourself out thinking about things to no purpose, you need to pull yourself together as there’s a lot that’s going to required of you. You’ve not behaved towards us the way we deserve after being so good to you, you forget that we, whatever we are, we’re still free men and you’re not, and that’s quite an advantage. But in spite of all that we’re still willing, if you’ve got the money, to go and get you some breakfast from the cafŽ over the road.”
他还有时间。 “让我来，”他说，然后匆匆穿过两名警察，走进自己的房间。 “他看起来很明智，”他听到他们在他身后说道。进了自己的房间，他飞快地拉开写字台的抽屉，里面的一切都很整齐，只是在他的焦躁之中却没能立刻找到他要找的身份证件。他终于找到了他的自行车许可证，正准备带着它回去见警察，但他觉得这太小了，所以他继续寻找，直到找到了他的出生证明。当他回到隔壁房间时，另一边的门打开了，格鲁巴赫夫人正要进去。他只看到了她一瞬间，因为她一认出K。她显然很尴尬，请求原谅，然后消失了，非常小心地关上了身后的门。 “进来吧，”K. 本来可以在那时说的。但现在他手里拿着文件站在房间中央，仍然看着那扇没有再打开的门。他就这样一直呆着，直到警察的喊叫声把他吓了一大跳，警察坐在开着的窗户边的小桌子旁，正如K现在看到的那样，他正在吃早餐。 “她怎么没进来？”他问。 “她不被允许。”大个子警察说道。 “你被捕了，不是吗？” “但是我怎么会被逮捕呢？而且怎么会变成这个样子？” “现在你又开始了，”警察一边说，一边把一块涂了黄油的面包放进蜜罐里。 “我们不回答这样的问题。” “你必须回答他们，”K说，“这是我的身份证件，现在给我看看你的，我当然想看看逮捕令。” “我的天啊！”警察说。 “在你这样的位置上，你认为你可以开始发号施令，是吗？ 让我们站在错误的一边对你没有任何好处，即使你认为我们可能比你认识的其他人更站在你一边！” “确实如此，你知道，你最好相信这一点，”弗朗茨说，手里拿着一杯咖啡，他没有把咖啡举到嘴边，而是看着K。意思但实际上无法理解。 K. 发现自己无意中与弗朗茨进行了无声对话，但随后把手放在证件上说：“这是我的身份证件。” “那你希望我们对此做什么？”高大的警察大声回答道。 “你现在的样子，比小孩子还糟糕。你想要什么？您想通过与我们讨论身份证明和逮捕令来快速结束对您的这场伟大而血腥的审判吗？我们只是铜人，仅此而已。像我们这样的初级官员几乎不知道身份证的一端和另一端，我们所要做的就是每天监视你十个小时并为此获得报酬。这就是我们的全部。请注意，我们能做的是确保我们所服务的高级官员在发出逮捕令之前查明他们要逮捕的人到底是什么样的人，以及为什么应该逮捕他。那里没有错误。我们当局据我所知，我只知道最低级的，不要出去在公众中寻找罪责；就像法律上说的那样，是罪恶感把他们吸引了出来，他们不得不把我们警察赶出去。这就是法律。你觉得哪里会有差错？” “我不知道这条法律，”K说。“那么对你来说就更糟糕了，”警察说。 “它可能只存在于你的头脑中，”K 说。，他想以某种方式渗透到警察的思想中，为了他的利益而重新塑造这些思想，或者让自己在那里感到宾至如归。但警察只是淡淡地说：“到时候你就知道了。”弗兰兹也加入进来，说道：“威廉，你看这个，他承认自己不懂法律，但同时又坚称自己是无辜的。” “你说得很对，但我们无法让他明白一件事。”另一个说。 K.不再和他们说话；他心想，难道我真的要继续跟基层官员的喋喋不休纠缠下去吗？他们承认自己的地位是最低的。无论如何，他们正在谈论他们根本不了解的事情。正是因为他们的愚蠢，他们才能如此自信。我只需要和一个和我有同样社会地位的人说几句话，一切就会变得无比清晰，比和这两个人进行长时间的交谈要清晰得多。他在房间里的空地上来回踱来踱去好几次，在街对面，他看到了那位老妇人，她现在正把一位比她年长得多的老人拉到窗前，用双臂搂住他。 。 K. 不得不结束这种展示，“带我去见你的上司，”他说。 “只要他想见你。以前没有，”那位名叫威廉的警察说。 “现在我给你的建议是，”他补充道，“走进你的房间，保持冷静，等着看要对你做什么。如果你接受我们的建议，你就不会因为无意义地思考事情而疲惫不堪，你需要振作起来，因为有很多事情需要你去做。 在对你这么好之后，你却没有按照我们应得的方式对待我们，你忘记了我们，无论我们是什么，我们仍然是自由人，而你不是，这是一个很大的优势。但尽管如此，如果您有钱，我们仍然愿意去路边的咖啡馆买点早餐。”

Without giving any answer to this offer, K. stood still for some time. Perhaps, if he opened the door of the next room or even the front door, the two of them would not dare to stand in his way, perhaps that would be the simplest way to settle the whole thing, by bringing it to a head. But maybe they would grab him, and if he were thrown down on the ground he would lose all the advantage he, in a certain respect, had over them. So he decided on the more certain solution, the way things would go in the natural course of events, and went back in his room without another word either from him or from the policemen.
K. 没有对这个提议做出任何答复，静静地站了一会儿。或许，如果他打开隔壁房间的门，甚至是前门，两个人都不敢挡他的路，或许，这就是解决整个事情最简单的办法，把事情闹到了头。但也许他们会抓住他，如果他被扔到地上，他就会失去在某种程度上相对于他们的所有优势。因此，他决定采取更确定的解决方案，让事情按照事件的自然进程进行，然后回到自己的房间，无论他还是警察都没有再说什么。

He threw himself down on his bed, and from the dressing table he took the nice apple that he had put there the previous evening for his breakfast. Now it was all the breakfast he had and anyway, as he confirmed as soon as he took his first, big bite of it, it was far better than a breakfast he could have had through the good will of the policemen from the dirty cafŽ. He felt well and confident, he had failed to go into work at the bank this morning but that could easily be excused because of the relatively high position he held there. Should he really send in his explanation? He wondered about it. If nobody believed him, and in this case that would be understandable, he could bring Mrs. Grubach in as a witness, or even the old pair from across the street, who probably even now were on their way over to the window opposite. It puzzled K., at least it puzzled him looking at it from the policemen’s point of view, that they had made him go into the room and left him alone there, where he had ten different ways of killing himself. At the same time, though, he asked himself, this time looking at it from his own point of view, what reason he could have to do so. Because those two were sitting there in the next room and had taken his breakfast, perhaps? It would have been so pointless to kill himself that, even if he had wanted to, the pointlessness would have made him unable. Maybe, if the policemen had not been so obviously limited in their mental abilities, it could have been supposed that they had come to the same conclusion and saw no danger in leaving him alone because of it. They could watch now, if they wanted, and see how he went over to the cupboard in the wall where he kept a bottle of good schnapps, how he first emptied a glass of it in place of his breakfast and how he then took a second glassful in order to give himself courage, the last one just as a precaution for the unlikely chance it would be needed.
他倒在床上，从梳妆台上拿起前一天晚上放在那里当早餐的漂亮苹果。现在这就是他吃的所有早餐了，无论如何，正如他在第一口大口咬下时所证实的那样，这比他在肮脏的咖啡馆警察的善意下所能吃到的早餐要好得多。他感觉很好，很自信，今天早上他没有去银行上班，但这很容易被原谅，因为他在那里担任的职位相对较高。他真的应该提交解释吗？他对此感到好奇。如果没有人相信他，在这种情况下，这是可以理解的，他可以带格鲁巴赫太太作为证人，甚至是街对面的那对老夫妇，他们现在可能正在朝对面的窗户走去。 K. 很困惑，至少从警察的角度来看，他们让他走进房间，然后把他一个人留在那里，在那里他有十种不同的自杀方式，这让他很困惑。但与此同时，他问自己，这一次是从自己的角度来看，他有什么理由不得不这样做。也许是因为那两个人坐在隔壁房间并吃过他的早餐？如果他自杀的话，那是毫无意义的，即使他想自杀，这种毫无意义的行为也让他无能为力。或许，如果警察们的心智能力不是那么明显受到限制，我们可以认为他们会得出同样的结论，并因此认为让他一个人呆着并没有什么危险。 如果他们愿意的话，他们现在可以看他如何走到墙上的橱柜前，那里放着一瓶上好的杜松子酒，他如何先倒掉一杯酒来代替早餐，然后又如何喝第二杯。为了给自己勇气，喝了一杯，最后一杯只是为了预防万一发生的情况。

Then he was so startled by a shout to him from the other room that he struck his teeth against the glass. “The supervisor wants to see you!” a voice said. It was only the shout that startled him, this curt, abrupt, military shout, that he would not have expected from the policeman called Franz. In itself, he found the order very welcome. “At last!” he called back, locked the cupboard and, without delay, hurried into the next room. The two policemen were standing there and chased him back into his bedroom as if that were a matter of course. “What d’you think you’re doing?” they cried. “Think you’re going to see the supervisor dressed in just your shirt, do you? He’d see to it you got a right thumping, and us and all!” “Let go of me for God’s sake!” called K., who had already been pushed back as far as his wardrobe, “if you accost me when I’m still in bed you can’t expect to find me in my evening dress.” “That won’t help you,” said the policemen, who always became very quiet, almost sad, when K. began to shout, and in that way confused him or, to some extent, brought him to his senses. “Ridiculous formalities!” he grumbled, as he lifted his coat from the chair and kept it in both his hands for a little while, as if holding it out for the policemen’s inspection. They shook their heads. “It’s got to be a black coat,” they said. At that, K. threw the coat to the floor and said without knowing even himself what he meant by it “Well it’s not going to be the main trial, after all.” The policemen laughed, but continued to insist, “It’s got to be a black coat.” “Well that’s alright by me if it makes things go any faster,” said K. He opened the wardrobe himself, spent a long time searching through all the clothes, and chose his best black suit which had a short jacket that had greatly surprised those who knew him, then he also pulled out a fresh shirt and began, carefully, to get dressed. He secretly told himself that he had succeeded in speeding things up by letting the policemen forget to make him have a bath. He watched them to see if they might remember after all, but of course it never occurred to them, although Willem did not forget to send Franz up to the supervisor with the message saying that K. was getting dressed.
然后他被另一个房间里传来的喊声吓了一跳，牙齿撞到了玻璃上。 “主管要见你！”一个声音说道。只是那一声叫喊让他吃了一惊，这种简短、突然、军事般的叫喊声，他没想到是来自那个叫弗兰茨的警察。他发现这个订单本身非常受欢迎。 “终于！”他回了电话，锁上柜子，然后立即跑进隔壁房间。两个警察站在那里，理所当然地将他追回卧室。 “你觉得你在做什么？”他们哭了。 “你认为你会看到主管只穿着你的衬衫，是吗？他会确保你得到正确的重击，还有我们和所有人！” “看在上帝的份上，放开我吧！” K. 已经被推到了衣柜前，他说道，“如果你在我还在床上的时候跟我搭话，你就不可能看到我穿着晚礼服。” “那对你没有帮助，”警察们说，当K.开始大喊大叫时，他们总是变得非常安静，几乎悲伤，从而使他困惑，或者在某种程度上让他清醒过来。 “可笑的手续！”他咕哝着，从椅子上拿起外套，双手捧了一会儿，好像是把它递给警察检查。他们摇摇头。 “必须是一件黑色外套，”他们说。这时，K. 将外套扔到地板上，连他自己都不明白他的意思，说道：“好吧，毕竟这不会是主要审判。”警察们笑了，但还是坚持说：“一定是黑外套。” “好吧，如果这能让事情进展得更快，我觉得没什么问题，”K 说。 他自己打开衣柜，花了很长时间翻遍了所有的衣服，选了自己最好的一套黑色西装，里面有一件让认识他的人都大吃一惊的短夹克，然后又拿出一件新衬衫，开始小心翼翼地穿起来。穿上衣服。他暗自告诉自己，让警察忘了让他洗澡，他成功地加快了事情的进展。他看着他们，看看他们是否还记得，但当然，他们从来没有想到过，尽管威廉没有忘记让弗朗茨去找主管，并传达一条消息说K.正在穿衣服。

Once he was properly dressed, K. had to pass by Willem as he went through the next room into the one beyond, the door of which was already wide open. K. knew very well that this room had recently been let to a typist called ‘Miss Burstner’. She was in the habit of going out to work very early and coming back home very late, and K. had never exchanged more than a few words of greeting with her. Now, her bedside table had been pulled into the middle of the room to be used as a desk for these proceedings, and the supervisor sat behind it. He had his legs crossed, and had thrown one arm over the backrest of the chair.
一旦他穿好衣服，K.就必须经过威廉，穿过隔壁的房间进入更远的房间，那里的门已经敞开了。 K. 非常清楚，这个房间最近租给了一位名叫“伯斯特纳小姐”的打字员。她有早出晚归的习惯，K.也从来不跟她寒暄几句。现在，她的床头柜被拉到了房间中央，作为这些程序的办公桌，主管坐在床头柜后面。他双腿交叉，一只手臂搭在椅子的靠背上。

In one corner of the room there were three young people looking at the photographs belonging to Miss Burstner that had been put into a piece of fabric on the wall. Hung up on the handle of the open window was a white blouse. At the window across the street, there was the old pair again, although now their number had increased, as behind them, and far taller than they were, stood a man with an open shirt that showed his chest and a reddish goatee beard which he squeezed and twisted with his fingers. “Josef K.?” asked the supervisor, perhaps merely to attract K.’s attention as he looked round the room. K. nodded. “I daresay you were quite surprised by all that’s been taking place this morning,” said the supervisor as, with both hands, he pushed away the few items on the bedside table the candle and box of matches, a book and a pin cushion which lay there as if they were things he would need for his own business. “Certainly,” said K., and he began to feel relaxed now that, at last, he stood in front of someone with some sense, someone with whom he would be able to talk about his situation. “Certainly I’m surprised, but I’m not in any way very surprised.” “You’re not very surprised?” asked the supervisor, as he positioned the candle in the middle of the table and the other things in a group around it. “Perhaps you don’t quite understand me,” K. hurriedly pointed out. “What I mean is … “ here K. broke off what he was saying and looked round for somewhere to sit. “I may sit down, mayn’t I?” he asked. “That’s not usual,” the supervisor answered. “What I mean is …,” said K. without delaying a second time, “that, yes, I am very surprised but when you’ve been in the world for thirty years already and had to make your own way through everything yourself, which has been my lot, then you become hardened to surprises and don’t take them too hard. Especially not what’s happened today.” “Why especially not what’s happened today?” “I wouldn’t want to say that I see all of this as a joke, you seem to have gone to too much trouble making all these arrangements for that. Everyone in the house must be taking part in it as well as all of you, that would be going beyond what could be a joke. So I don’t want to say that this is a joke.” “Quite right,” said the supervisor, looking to see how many matches were left in the box. “But on the other hand,” K. went on, looking round at everyone there and even wishing he could get the attention of the three who were looking at the photographs, “on the other hand this really can’t be all that important. That follows from the fact that I’ve been indicted, but can’t think of the slightest offence for which I could be indicted. But even that is all beside the point, the main question is: Who is issuing the indictment? What office is conducting this affair? Are you officials? None of you is wearing a uniform, unless what you are wearing” here he turned towards Franz “is meant to be a uniform, it’s actually more of a travelling suit. I require a clear answer to all these questions, and I’m quite sure that once things have been made clear we can take our leave of each other on the best of terms.” The supervisor slammed the box of matches down on the table. “You’re making a big mistake,” he said. “These gentlemen and I have got nothing to do with your business, in fact we know almost nothing about you. We could be wearing uniforms as proper and exact as you like and your situation wouldn’t be any the worse for it. As to whether you’re on a charge, I can’t give you any sort of clear answer to that, I don’t even know whether you are or not. You’re under arrest, you’re quite right about that, but I don’t know any more than that. Maybe these officers have been chit-chatting with you, well if they have that’s all it is, chitchat. I can’t give you an answer to your questions, but I can give you a bit of advice: You’d better think less about us and what’s going to happen to you, and think a bit more about yourself. And stop making all this fuss about your sense of innocence; you don’t make such a bad impression, but with all this fuss you’re damaging it. And you ought to do a bit less talking, too. Almost everything you’ve said so far has been things we could have taken from your behaviour, even if you’d said no more than a few words. And what you have said has not exactly been in your favour.”
房间的一个角落里，三个年轻人正在看挂在墙上一块布上的属于伯斯特纳小姐的照片。开着的窗户把手上挂着一件白色衬衫。街对面的窗户处，又出现了那对老夫妇，不过现在人数增加了，在他们身后，比他们高得多，站着一个男人，衬衫敞开，露出胸膛，留着微红的山羊胡。用手指挤压、扭动。 “约瑟夫·K？”主管问道，也许只是为了吸引 K. 环视房间的注意力。 K.点点头。 “我敢说你对今天早上发生的一切感到非常惊讶，”主管一边说着，一边用双手推开床头柜上的几件东西——蜡烛、火柴盒、一本书和一个针垫。躺在那里，就好像它们是他自己的生意所需要的东西一样。 “当然，”K说，他开始感到轻松，因为他终于站在了一个有理智的人面前，一个他可以与他谈论他的处境的人。 “我当然很惊讶，但我一点也不感到非常惊讶。” “你不是很惊讶吗？”主管一边将蜡烛放在桌子中央，一边将其他东西放在周围，问道。 “也许你不太明白我的意思。”K.急忙指出。 “我的意思是……”说到这里，K. 打断了自己的话，环顾四周寻找可以坐下的地方。 “我可以坐下来，可以吗？”他问。 “这不寻常，”主管回答道。 “我的意思是……”K 说。 没有第二次拖延，“那，是的，我很惊讶，但是当你已经在这个世界上三十年了，并且必须自己解决一切问题时，这就是我的命运，那么你就会变得冷酷无情惊喜，不要太难受。尤其是今天发生的事情。” “为什么特别不是今天发生的事情呢？” “我不想说我把这一切都看成是一个笑话，你为​​此做所有这些安排似乎费了太多的麻烦。家里的每个人都必须参与其中，你们所有人也都参与其中，这可不是开玩笑。所以我不想说这是一个笑话。” “完全正确。”主管说道，同时查看了盒子里还剩下多少根火柴。 “但另一方面，”K. 继续说道，环顾四周的每个人，甚至希望他能引起正在看照片的三个人的注意，“另一方面，这确实不是那么重要。” 。这是因为我已被起诉，但我想不出有什么轻微的罪行可以起诉我。但即便如此，主要问题是：谁在发出起诉书？哪个部门在处理这件事？你们是官员吗？你们都没有穿制服，除非你穿的衣服”此时他转向弗兰兹“本来就是制服，实际上更像是一套旅行服。我需要所有这些问题得到明确的答案，而且我非常确定，一旦事情弄清楚，我们就可以以最好的方式互相告别。”主管把火柴盒重重地摔在桌子上。 “你犯了一个大错误，”他说。 “这些先生和我与你们的事没有任何关系，事实上我们对你们几乎一无所知。 我们可以按照您的喜好穿着合适、准确的制服，您的情况也不会因此而变得更糟。至于你是否被指控，我无法给你任何明确的答案，我什至不知道你是否被指控。你被捕了，你说得很对，但我不知道更多了。也许这些官员一直在和你闲聊，好吧，如果他们有的话，就这样，闲聊。我无法回答你的问题，但我可以给你一点建议：你最好少考虑我们和你会发生什么，多考虑一下你自己。别再对你的纯真感大惊小怪了；你不会给人留下那么坏的印象，但你这么大惊小怪却正在损害它。你也应该少说话一点。到目前为止，我们几乎可以从你的行为中了解到你所说的一切，即使你只说了几句话。而且你所说的并不完全对你有利。”

K. stared at the supervisor. Was this man, probably younger than he was, lecturing him like a schoolmaster? Was he being punished for his honesty with a telling off? And was he to learn nothing about the reasons for his arrest or those who were arresting him? He became somewhat cross and began to walk up and down. No-one stopped him doing this and he pushed his sleeves back, felt his chest, straightened his hair, went over to the three men, said, “It makes no sense,” at which these three turned round to face him and came towards him with serious expressions. He finally came again to a halt in front of the supervisor’s desk. “State Attorney Hasterer is a good friend of mine,” he said, “can I telephone him?” “Certainly,” said the supervisor, “but I don’t know what the point of that will be, I suppose you must have some private matter you want to discuss with him.” “What the point is?” shouted K., more disconcerted that cross. “Who do you think you are? You want to see some point in it while you’re carrying out something as pointless as it could be? It’s enough to make you cry! These gentlemen first accost me, and now they sit or stand about in here and let me be hauled up in front of you. What point there would be, in telephoning a state attorney when I’m ostensibly under arrest? Very well, I won’t make the telephone call.” “You can call him if you want to,” said the supervisor, stretching his had out towards the outer room where the telephone was, “please, go on, do make your phone call.” “No, I don’t want to any more,” said K., and went over to the window. Across the street, the people were still there at the window, and it was only now that K. had gone up to his window that they seemed to become uneasy about quietly watching what was going on. The old couple wanted to get up but the man behind them calmed them down. “We’ve got some kind of audience over there,” called K. to the supervisor, quite loudly, as he pointed out with his forefinger. “Go away,” he then called across to them. And the three of them did immediately retreat a few steps, the old pair even found themselves behind the man who then concealed them with the breadth of his body and seemed, going by the movements of his mouth, to be saying something incomprehensible into the distance. They did not disappear entirely, though, but seemed to be waiting for the moment when they could come back to the window without being noticed. “Intrusive, thoughtless people!” said K. as he turned back into the room. The supervisor may have agreed with him, at least K. thought that was what he saw from the corner of his eye. But it was just as possible that he had not even been listening as he had his hand pressed firmly down on the table and seemed to be comparing the length of his fingers. The two policemen were sitting on a chest covered with a coloured blanket, rubbing their knees. The three young people had put their hands on their hips and were looking round aimlessly. Everything was still, like in some office that has been forgotten about. “Now, gentlemen,” called out K., and for a moment it seemed as if he was carrying all of them on his shoulders, “it looks like your business with me is over with. In my opinion, it’s best now to stop wondering about whether you’re proceeding correctly or incorrectly, and to bring the matter to a peaceful close with a mutual handshake. If you are of the same opinion, then please … “ and he walked up to the supervisor’s desk and held out his hand to him. The supervisor raised his eyes, bit his lip and looked at K.’s outstretched hand; K still believed the supervisor would do as he suggested. But instead, he stood up, picked up a hard round hat that was laying on Miss Burstner’s bed and put it carefully onto his head, using both hands as if trying on a new hat. “Everything seems so simple to you, doesn’t it,” he said to K. as he did so, “so you think we should bring the matter to a peaceful close, do you. No, no, that won’t do. Mind you, on the other hand I certainly wouldn’t want you to think there’s no hope for you. No, why should you think that? You’re simply under arrest, nothing more than that. That’s what I had to tell you, that’s what I’ve done and now I’ve seen how you’ve taken it. That’s enough for one day and we can take our leave of each other, for the time being at least. I expect you’ll want to go in to the bank now, won’t you.” “In to the bank?” asked K., “I thought I was under arrest.” K. said this with a certain amount of defiance as, although his handshake had not been accepted, he was feeling more independent of all these people, especially since the supervisor had stood up. He was playing with them. If they left, he had decided he would run after them and offer to let them arrest him. That’s why he even repeated, “How can I go in to the bank when I’m under arrest?” “I see you’ve misunderstood me,” said the supervisor who was already at the door. “It’s true that you’re under arrest, but that shouldn’t stop you from carrying out your job. And there shouldn’t be anything to stop you carrying on with your usual life.” “In that case it’s not too bad, being under arrest,” said K., and went up close to the supervisor. “I never meant it should be anything else,” he replied. “It hardly seems to have been necessary notify me of the arrest in that case,” said K., and went even closer. The others had also come closer. All of them had gathered together into a narrow space by the door. “That was my duty,” said the supervisor. “A silly duty,” said K., unyielding. “Maybe so,” replied the supervisor, “only don’t let’s waste our time talking on like this. I had assumed you’d be wanting to go to the bank. As you’re paying close attention to every word I’ll add this: I’m not forcing you to go to the bank, I’d just assumed you wanted to. And to make things easier for you, and to let you get to the bank with as little fuss as possible I’ve put these three gentlemen, colleagues of yours, at your disposal.” “What’s that?” exclaimed K., and looked at the three in astonishment. He could only remember seeing them in their group by the photographs, but these characterless, anaemic young people were indeed officials from his bank, not colleagues of his, that was putting it too high and it showed a gap in the omniscience of the supervisor, but they were nonetheless junior members of staff at the bank. How could K. have failed to see that? How occupied he must have been with the supervisor and the policemen not to have recognised these three! Rabensteiner, with his stiff demeanour and swinging hands, Kullich, with his blonde hair and deep-set eyes, and Kaminer, with his involuntary grin caused by chronic muscle spasms. “Good morning,” said K. after a while, extending his hand to the gentlemen as they bowed correctly to him. “I didn’t recognise you at all. So, we’ll go into work now, shall we?” The gentlemen laughed and nodded enthusiastically, as if that was what they had been waiting for all the time, except that K. had left his hat in his room so they all dashed, one after another, into the room to fetch it, which caused a certain amount of embarrassment. K. stood where he was and watched them through the open double doorway, the last to go, of course, was the apathetic Rabensteiner who had broken into no more than an elegant trot. Kaminer got to the hat and K., as he often had to do at the bank, forcibly reminded himself that the grin was not deliberate, that he in fact wasn’t able to grin deliberately. At that moment Mrs. Grubach opened the door from the hallway into the living room where all the people were. She did not seem to feel guilty about anything at all, and K., as often before, looked down at the belt of her apron which, for no reason, cut so deeply into her hefty body. Once downstairs, K., with his watch in his hand, decided to take a taxi he had already been delayed by half an hour and there was no need to make the delay any longer. Kaminer ran to the corner to summon it, and the two others were making obvious efforts to keep K. diverted when Kullich pointed to the doorway of the house on the other side of the street where the large man with the blonde goatee beard appeared and, a little embarrassed at first at letting himself be seen in his full height, stepped back to the wall and leant against it. The old couple were probably still on the stairs. K. was cross with Kullich for pointing out this man whom he had already seen himself, in fact whom he had been expecting. “Don’t look at him!” he snapped, without noticing how odd it was to speak to free men in this way. But there was no explanation needed anyway as just then the taxi arrived, they sat inside and set off. Inside the taxi, K. remembered that he had not noticed the supervisor and the policemen leaving the supervisor had stopped him noticing the three bank staff and now the three bank staff had stopped him noticing the supervisor. This showed that K. was not very attentive, and he resolved to watch himself more carefully in this respect. Nonetheless, he gave it no thought as he twisted himself round and leant over onto the rear shelf of the car to catch sight of the supervisor and the policemen if he could. But he turned back round straight away and leant comfortably into the corner of the taxi without even having made the effort to see anyone. Although it did not seem like it, now was just the time when he needed some encouragement, but the gentlemen seemed tired just then, Rabensteiner looked out of the car to the right, Kullich to the left and only Kaminer was there with his grin at K.’s service. It would have been inhumane to make fun of that.
K.盯着主管。这个男人，大概比他还年轻，是不是像个校长一样给他讲课？他是否因为诚实而受到训斥的惩罚？他是否对他被捕的原因或逮捕他的人一无所知？他变得有些生气，开始走来走去。无人阻止，他挽起袖子，摸了摸胸口，理了理发，走到三人面前，道：“无理取闹。”三人转过身来，面向他走来。他表情严肃。他终于再次在主管办公桌前停了下来。 “州检察官哈斯特勒是我的好朋友，”他说，“我可以给他打电话吗？” “当然可以，”主管说，“不过我不知道这样做有什么意义，我想你一定有什么私事想和他讨论。” “重点是什么？” K喊道，十字架更加惊慌。 “你以为你是谁？当你在做一些毫无意义的事情时，你想看到其中的一些意义吗？就足够让你流泪了！这些先生们先是跟我搭话，现在他们或坐或站在这里，让我被拉到你们面前。当我表面上被捕时给州检察官打电话有什么意义？好吧，我就不打电话了。” “你想打电话就可以。”主管伸手向外面挂着电话的房间说道，“请继续打电话吧。” “不，我不想再这样了，”K.说着，走到了窗边。街对面，人们还站在窗边，直到K.走到他的窗前，他们似乎才开始不安地静静地观看发生的一切。 老两口想要起身，却被身后的男人安抚住了。 “我们那边有一些观众，”K. 大声地对主管喊道，他用食指指出。 “走开，”然后他对他们喊道。而三人也立刻后退了几步，老者甚至发现自己已经来到了那人的身后，而那人则用自己的身躯将他们遮住了，从他嘴型的动作来看，似乎是在向远处说着什么难以理解的事情。 。不过，他们并没有完全消失，而是似乎在等待着能够不被人发现地回到窗边的那一刻。 “侵入性的、没有思想的人！” K.转身回到房间时说道。主管或许也同意他的观点，至少K.认为他眼角的余光是这么看的。但也有可能他根本没有在听，他的手紧紧地按在桌子上，似乎在比较手指的长度。两名警察坐在铺着彩色毯子的箱子上，揉着膝盖。三个年轻人双手叉腰，漫无目的地环顾四周。一切都很安静，就像在某个被遗忘的办公室里。 “现在，先生们，”K喊道，有那么一刻，他似乎把所有人都扛在了肩上，“看来你们与我的事已经结束了。在我看来，现在最好停止怀疑自己的做法是正确还是错误，并通过相互握手来和平结束此事。如果你也有同样的意见，那么请……”他走到主管办公桌前，向他伸出了手。主管抬起眼睛，咬着嘴唇，看向K。伸出的手； K仍然相信主管会按照他的建议去做。但他却站了起来，拿起伯斯特纳小姐床上的一顶硬圆帽，小心翼翼地戴在头上，双手像试戴一顶新帽子一样。 “一切对你来说似乎都很简单，不是吗？”他边做边对 K 说道，“所以你认为我们应该和平解决这件事，是吗？不，不，那不行。请注意，另一方面，我当然不希望你认为你没有希望。不，你为什么要这么想？你只是被捕了，仅此而已。这就是我必须告诉你的，这就是我所做的，现在我看到你是如何接受的。一天就够了，至少暂时我们可以互相告别了。我想你现在会想去银行，不是吗？” “去银行？” K.问道：“我以为我被捕了。” K. 说这话时带着一定程度的蔑视，因为尽管他的握手没有被接受，但他感觉更加独立于所有这些人，特别是在主管站起来之后。他正在和他们一起玩。如果他们离开，他决定追上他们并提出让他们逮捕他。所以他甚至重复了一遍：“我被捕了怎么能进银行呢？” “看来你误会我了。”已经在门口的主管说道。 “你确实被捕了，但这不应该阻止你执行你的工作。而且不应该有任何事情可以阻止你继续正常的生活。” “这样的话，被捕也不算太糟糕，”K. 说道，然后走近主管。 “我从来没有想过应该是别的什么，”他回答道。 “在这种情况下，似乎没有必要通知我逮捕的消息，”K.，并且走得更近了。其他人也都靠近了一些。所有人都聚集在门边一个狭小的空间里。 “这是我的职责，”主管说。 “这是一个愚蠢的职责，”K.不屈不挠地说。 “也许是吧，”主管回答道，“不过我们别再这样浪费时间了。我以为你会想去银行。当你密切关注每一个字时，我会补充一点：我不是强迫你去银行，我只是假设你想去银行。为了让你的事情变得更容易，并让你尽可能少地去银行，我已经把这三位先生，你的同事，交给你了。” “那是什么？” “K.”惊呼道，惊讶地看着三人。他只记得在照片中见过他们，但这些没有个性、贫血的年轻人确实是他银行的官员，而不是他的同事，这太高了，这显示了主管无所不知的差距，但他们仍然是银行的初级职员。 K.怎么可能看不到这一点呢？他一定很忙，没能认出这三个人！拉本斯坦纳举止僵硬，双手挥舞；库利奇金发碧眼，眼睛深陷；卡米纳因慢性肌肉痉挛而不自觉地微笑。 “早上好，”过了一会儿，K. 向先生们伸出了手，看到他们正确地向他鞠躬。 “我根本没认出你来。那么，我们现在就去工作吧？”先生们哈哈大笑，热情地点头，仿佛这就是他们一直在等待的，除了K. 他的帽子落在房间里了，大家纷纷冲进房间去取，这引起了一定的尴尬。 K.站在原地，看着他们穿过敞开的双门，最后走开的当然是冷漠的拉本施泰纳，他只是优雅地小跑了一下。卡米纳拿起帽子，K. 就像他在银行经常要做的那样，强迫自己提醒自己，他的笑容不是故意的，事实上，他无法故意微笑。就在这时，格鲁巴赫太太打开了门，从走廊进入客厅，里面全是人。她似乎根本没有对任何事情感到内疚，K.一如既往地低头看着她的围裙带，它无缘无故地深深地扎进了她庞大的身体。下了楼，K.手里拿着手表，决定乘坐已经晚了半个小时的出租车，没有必要再耽误了。卡米纳跑到街角去召唤它，另外两人显然正在努力让 K. 转移注意力，这时库利奇指着街道另一边房子的门口，那个留着金色山羊胡子的大个子出现了，一开始他有点尴尬，因为让别人看到他的全高，他退到墙边靠在墙上。老两口大概还在楼梯上。 K. 很生气库利奇指出这个他已经见过的人，事实上他一直在等他。 “别看他！”他厉声说道，没有注意到以这种方式对自由人说话是多么奇怪。但无论如何也不需要解释，出租车刚到，他们就坐进去出发了。出租车内，K. 记得他没有注意到主管，离开主管的警察阻止了他注意三名银行工作人员，现在三名银行工作人员阻止了他注意到主管。这说明K.不太专心，他决心在这方面更加小心地观察自己。尽管如此，他还是没有多想，扭过身子，靠在车后架上，尽可能地看到主管和警察。但他立刻转过身来，舒服地靠在出租车的角落里，甚至没有努力去看任何人。虽然看起来不像，但现在正是他需要鼓励的时候，不过刚才那几位先生似乎有些疲惫，拉本施泰纳向右看向车外，库利奇向左看去，只有卡米纳在那里微笑着看着。 K.的服务。取笑这一点是不人道的。

That spring, whenever possible, K. usually spent his evenings after work he usually stayed in the office until nine o’clock with a short walk, either by himself or in the company of some of the bank officials, and then he would go into a pub where he would sit at the regulars’ table with mostly older men until eleven. There were, however, also exceptions to this habit, times, for instance, when K. was invited by the bank’s manager (whom he greatly respected for his industry and trustworthiness) to go with him for a ride in his car or to eat dinner with him at his large house. K. would also go, once a week, to see a girl called Elsa who worked as a waitress in a wine bar through the night until late in the morning. During the daytime she only received visitors while still in bed.
那年春天，只要有可能，K. 通常都会在下班后度过晚上，他通常会在办公室里呆到九点，或者独自或在一些银行官员的陪伴下散步，然后他会去在一家酒吧里，他经常和常客坐在一起，直到十一点为止。然而，这种习惯也有例外，例如，当 K. 被银行经理（他非常尊重这位经理的勤奋和诚信）邀请和他一起乘车兜风或吃晚饭时和他一起在他的大房子里。 K.还会每周一次去看望一位名叫艾尔莎的女孩，她在一家酒吧里当女服务员，通宵达旦到深夜。白天她只在床上接待访客。

That evening, though, the day had passed quickly with a lot of hard work and many respectful and friendly birthday greetings K. wanted to go straight home. Each time he had any small break from the day’s work he considered, without knowing exactly what he had in mind, that Mrs. Grubach’s flat seemed to have been put into great disarray by the events of that morning, and that it was up to him to put it back into order. Once order had been restored, every trace of those events would have been erased and everything would take its previous course once more. In particular, there was nothing to fear from the three bank officials, they had immersed themselves back into their paperwork and there was no alteration to be seen in them. K. had called each of them, separately or all together, into his office that day for no other reason than to observe them; he was always satisfied and had always been able to let them go again.
然而，那天晚上，经过大量的辛勤工作和许多尊重和友好的生日祝福，这一天很快就过去了。K.想直接回家。每当他从一天的工作中稍事休息时，他就会想到，尽管他到底在想什么，格鲁巴赫太太的公寓似乎因那天早上的事件而变得一片混乱，而这取决于他。将其恢复正常。一旦秩序恢复，那些事件的痕迹就会被抹去，一切都会恢复原来的轨道。尤其是那三名银行官员，根本就没有什么可担心的，他们已经重新投入到了文书工作中，看不出有什么变化。那天，K. 单独或一起把他们每个人叫到他的办公室，除了观察他们之外没有其他原因。他总是很满意，并且总是能够再次放开他们。

At half past nine that evening, when he arrived back in front of the building where he lived, he met a young lad in the doorway who was standing there, his legs apart and smoking a pipe. “Who are you?” immediately asked K., bringing his face close to the lad’s, as it was hard to see in the half light of the landing. “I’m the landlord’s son, sir,” answered the lad, taking the pipe from his mouth and stepping to one side. “The landlord’s son?” asked K., and impatiently knocked on the ground with his stick. “Did you want anything, sir? Would you like me to fetch my father?” “No, no,” said K., there was something forgiving in his voice, as if the boy had harmed him in some way and he was excusing him. “It’s alright,” he said then, and went on, but before going up the stairs he turned round once more.
当天晚上九点半，当他回到自己住的楼前时，看见门口有一个小伙子叉着腿站在那里抽烟斗。 “你是谁？” K.立即问道，把脸靠近小伙子的脸，因为在楼梯平台的微弱灯光下很难看清。 “先生，我是地主的儿子。”小伙子回答道，从嘴里取下烟斗，走到一边。 “房东的儿子？” K问道，并不耐烦地用棍子敲着地面。 “您想要什么吗，先生？要不要我去接我爸爸？” “不，不，”K说，他的声音里带着某种宽容，就好像这个男孩在某种程度上伤害了他，而他正在原谅他。 “没关系，”他说，然后继续说下去，但在上楼梯之前，他再次转过身来。

He could have gone directly to his room, but as he wanted to speak with Mrs. Grubach he went straight to her door and knocked. She was sat at the table with a knitted stocking and a pile of old stockings in front of her. K. apologised, a little embarrassed at coming so late, but Mrs. Grubach was very friendly and did not want to hear any apology, she was always ready to speak to him, he knew very well that he was her best and her favourite tenant. K. looked round the room, it looked exactly as it usually did, the breakfast dishes, which had been on the table by the window that morning, had already been cleared away. “A woman’s hands will do many things when no-one’s looking,” he thought, he might himself have smashed all the dishes on the spot but certainly would not have been able to carry it all out. He looked at Mrs. Grubach with some gratitude. “Why are you working so late?” he asked. They were now both sitting at the table, and K. now and then sank his hands into the pile of stockings. “There’s a lot of work to do,” she said, “during the day I belong to the tenants; if I’m to sort out my own things there are only the evenings left to me.” “I fear I may have caused you some exceptional work today.” “How do you mean, Mr. K.?” she asked, becoming more interested and leaving her work in her lap. “I mean the men who were here this morning.” “Oh, I see,” she said, and went peacefully back to what she was doing, “that was no trouble, not especially.” K. looked on in silence as she took up the knitted stocking once more. She seems surprised at my mentioning it, he thought, she seems to think it’s improper for me to mention it. All the more important for me to do so. An old woman is the only person I can speak about it with. “But it must have caused some work for you,” he said then, “but it won’t happen again.” “No, it can’t happen again,” she agreed, and smiled at K. in a way that was almost pained. “Do you mean that seriously?” asked K. “Yes,” she said, more gently, “but the important thing is you mustn’t take it too hard. There are so many awful things happening in the world! As you’re being so honest with me, Mr. K., I can admit to you that I listened to a little of what was going on from behind the door, and that those two policemen told me one or two things as well. It’s all to do with your happiness, and that’s something that’s quite close to my heart, perhaps more than it should be as I am, after all, only your landlady. Anyway, so I heard one or two things but I can’t really say that it’s about anything very serious. No. You have been arrested, but it’s not in the same way as when they arrest a thief. If you’re arrested in the same way as a thief, then it’s bad, but an arrest like this …. It seems to me that it’s something very complicated forgive me if I’m saying something stupid something very complicated that I don’t understand, but something that you don’t really need to understand anyway.”
他本来可以直接回自己的房间，但由于他想和格鲁巴赫太太说话，所以他径直走到她的门前敲了敲门。她坐在桌边，面前放着一只针织袜和一堆旧袜子。 K. 道歉了，来得这么晚有点不好意思，但格鲁巴赫夫人非常友好，不想听到任何道歉，她总是准备好和他说话，他很清楚，他是她最好的，也是她最喜欢的房客。 。 K环顾房间，和平时一模一样，早上放在窗边桌子上的早餐盘子已经被收走了。 “女人的手在没人注意的时候会做很多事情。”他想，他自己可能当场打碎了所有的盘子，但肯定无法全部搬出去。他有些感激地看着格鲁巴赫夫人。 “你为什么工作这么晚？”他问。他们现在都坐在桌边，K时不时地将手伸进那堆袜子里。 “有很多工作要做，”她说，“白天我属于房客；白天我属于房客；白天我属于房客。”如果我要处理自己的事情，我就只剩下晚上了。” “恐怕今天我可能给你带来了一些特殊的工作。” “K先生，你这是什么意思？”她问道，变得更加感兴趣，并将工作放在腿上。 “我指的是今天早上在这里的那些人。” “哦，我明白了，”她说，然后平静地回到她正在做的事情上，“那没什么麻烦，不是特别麻烦。” K. 默默地看着她再次拿起针织袜。她似乎对我提起这件事感到惊讶，他想，她似乎认为我提起这件事不合适。对我来说，这样做更重要。一位老妇人是我唯一可以谈论这件事的人。 “但这肯定给你带来了一些工作，”他当时说道，“但这种情况不会再发生了。” “不，这样的事不能再发生了。”她同意道，并对 K. 微笑，笑容里几乎带着痛苦。 “你是认真的吗？” K问道。“是的，”她更加温和地说，“但重要的是你不能太难受。世界上发生了很多可怕的事情！ K先生，既然你对我如此诚实，我可以向你承认，我听到了门后发生的一些事情，那两个警察也告诉了我一两件事。这一切都与你的幸福有关，这是我非常关心的事情，也许比我应该做的更重要，毕竟我只是你的女房东。不管怎样，我听到了一两件事，但我不能说这是非常严肃的事情。不，你被逮捕了，但这和他们逮捕小偷的方式不一样。如果你像小偷一样被逮捕，那就不好了，但是像这样的逮捕……。在我看来，这是一件非常复杂的事情，请原谅我，如果我说的是一些愚蠢的事情，一些我不明白的非常复杂的事情，但无论如何你并不真正需要理解的事情。”

“There’s nothing stupid about what you’ve said, Mrs. Grubach, or at least I partly agree with you, only, the way I judge the whole thing is harsher than yours, and think it’s not only not something complicated but simply a fuss about nothing. I was just caught unawares, that’s what happened. If I had got up as soon as I was awake without letting myself get confused because Anna wasn’t there, if I’d got up and paid no regard to anyone who might have been in my way and come straight to you, if I’d done something like having my breakfast in the kitchen as an exception, asked you to bring my clothes from my room, in short, if I had behaved sensibly then nothing more would have happened, everything that was waiting to happen would have been stifled. People are so often unprepared. In the bank, for example, I am well prepared, nothing of this sort could possibly happen to me there, I have my own assistant there, there are telephones for internal and external calls in front of me on the desk, I continually receive visits from people, representatives, officials, but besides that, and most importantly, I’m always occupied with my work, that’s to say I’m always alert, it would even be a pleasure for me to find myself faced with something of that sort. But now it’s over with, and I didn’t really even want to talk about it any more, only I wanted to hear what you, as a sensible woman, thought about it all, and I’m very glad to hear that we’re in agreement. But now you must give me your hand, an agreement of this sort needs to be confirmed with a handshake. “
“格鲁巴赫夫人，你所说的并没有什么愚蠢的地方，或者至少我部分同意你的观点，只是，我对整件事的判断方式比你的更严厉，我认为这不仅不是什么复杂的事情，而且只是小题大做。”没什么。我只是措手不及，事情就这样发生了。如果我一醒就站起来，而不会因为安娜不在而让自己感到困惑，如果我站起来，不顾任何可能妨碍我的人，径直走向你，如果我破例在厨房吃早餐，让你把我房间里的衣服拿过来，总之，如果我表现得理智的话就不会再发生什么了，一切等待发生的事情都会被扼杀。人们常常毫无准备。比如在银行，我做好了充分的准备，不可能发生这种事，我有自己的助理，办公桌上有内线外线电话，不断接待来访来自人民、代表、官员，但除此之外，最重要的是，我总是忙于我的工作，也就是说我总是保持警惕，甚至我会很高兴发现自己面临这样的事情。但现在一切都结束了，我真的不想再谈论这件事了，我只是想听听你，作为一个明智的女人，对这一切的想法，我很高兴听到我们’重新同意。但现在你必须把手伸给我，这种协议需要握手来确认。 “

Will she shake hands with me? The supervisor didn’t shake hands, he thought, and looked at the woman differently from before, examining her. She stood up, as he had also stood up, and was a little selfconscious, she hadn’t been able to understand everything that that K. said. As a result of this self consciousness she said something that she certainly did not intend and certainly was not appropriate. “Don’t take it so hard, Mr. K.,” she said, with tears in her voice and also, of course, forgetting the handshake. “I didn’t know I was taking it hard,” said K., feeling suddenly tired and seeing that if this woman did agree with him it was of very little value.
她会和我握手吗？他想，主管没有握手，而是以与之前不同的眼神看着那个女人，审视着她。她站了起来，他也站了起来，有点难为情，她没能听懂K.所说的一切。由于这种自我意识，她说了一些她当然无意、也不恰当的话。 “别这么难受，K 先生，”她声音里含着泪水，当然，也忘记了握手。 “我不知道我这么难受，”K. 说，他突然感到疲倦，而且发现如果这个女人真的同意他的观点，那就没什么价值了。

Before going out the door he asked, “Is Miss Burstner home?” “No,” said Mrs. Grubach, smiling as she gave this simple piece of information, saying something sensible at last. “She’s at the theatre. Did you want to see her? Should I give her a message?” “I, er, I just wanted to have a few words with her.” “I’m afraid I don’t know when she’s coming in; she usually gets back late when she’s been to the theatre.” “It really doesn’t matter,” said K. his head hanging as he turned to the door to leave, “I just wanted to give her my apology for taking over her room today.” “There’s no need for that, Mr. K., you’re too conscientious, the young lady doesn’t know anything about it, she hasn’t been home since early this morning and everything’s been tidied up again, you can see for yourself.” And she opened the door to Miss Burstner’s room. “Thank you, I’ll take your word for it,” said K, but went nonetheless over to the open door. The moon shone quietly into the unlit room. As far as could be seen, everything was indeed in its place, not even the blouse was hanging on the window handle. The pillows on the bed looked remarkably plump as they lay half in the moonlight. “Miss Burstner often comes home late,” said K., looking at Mrs. Grubach as if that were her responsibility. “That’s how young people are!” said Mrs. Grubach in to excuse herself. “Of course, of course,” said K., “but it can be taken too far.” “Yes, it can be,” said Mrs. Grubach, “you’re so right, Mr. K. Perhaps it is in this case. I certainly wouldn’t want to say anything nasty about Miss Burstner, she is a good, sweet girl, friendly, tidy, punctual, works hard, I appreciate all that very much, but one thing is true, she ought to have more pride, be a bit less forthcoming. Twice this month already, in the street over the way, I’ve seen her with a different gentleman. I really don’t like saying this, you’re the only one I’ve said this to, Mr. K., I swear to God, but I’m going to have no choice but to have a few words with Miss Burstner about it myself. And it’s not the only thing about her that I’m worried about.” “Mrs. Grubach, you are on quite the wrong track ,” said K., so angry that he was hardly able to hide it, “and you have moreover misunderstood what I was saying about Miss Burstner, that is not what I meant. In fact I warn you quite directly not to say anything to her, you are quite mistaken, I know Miss Burstner very well and there is no truth at all in what you say. And what’s more, perhaps I’m going to far, I don’t want to get in your way, say to her whatever you see fit. Good night.” “Mr. K.,” said Mrs. Grubach as if asking him for something and hurrying to his door which he had already opened, “I don’t want to speak to Miss Burstner at all, not yet, of course I’ll continue to keep an eye on her but you’re the only one I’ve told what I know. And it is, after all something that everyone who lets rooms has to do if she’s to keep the house decent, that’s all I’m trying to do.” “Decent!” called out K. through the crack in the door, “if you want to keep the house decent you’ll first have to give me notice.” Then he slammed the door shut, there was a gentle knocking to which he paid no more attention.
出门前他问：“伯斯特纳小姐在家吗？” “不，”格鲁巴赫夫人微笑着说出这条简单的信息，终于说出了一些明智的话。 “她在剧院。你想见她吗？我要不要给她捎个口信？” “我，呃，我只是想和她说几句话。” “恐怕我不知道她什么时候进来；她去剧院时通常很晚才回来。” “真的没关系，”K低着头转身向门口走去，“我只是想向她道歉，因为今天霸占了她的房间。” “不用了，K先生，你太认真了，这位小姐什么都不知道，她从今天一大早就没有回家了，一切都已经收拾好了，你可以看看。”你自己。”她打开了伯斯特纳小姐房间的门。 “谢谢你，我会相信你的话。”K 说道，但还是走到了敞开的门前。月光静静地照进没有灯光的房间。就目前看来，一切确实都在原处，甚至连衬衫也没有挂在窗把手上。床上的枕头半躺在月光下，显得格外丰满。 “伯斯特纳小姐经常回家很晚，”K. 看着格鲁巴赫太太，仿佛这是她的责任。 “年轻人就是这样啊！”格鲁巴赫太太插嘴道：“对不起。” “当然，当然，”K. 说，“但是这可能太过分了。” “是的，有可能，”格鲁巴赫夫人说，“你说得很对，K先生。也许在这种情况下就是这样。我当然不想说任何关于伯斯特纳小姐的坏话，她是一个善良、可爱的女孩，友好、整洁、准时、工作努力，我非常欣赏这一切，但有一件事是真的，她应该有更多的骄傲，少一点热情。 这个月已经两次，在对面的街上，我看到她和另一位绅士在一起。我真的不喜欢这样说，K先生，我只对你说过这样的话。我向上帝发誓，但我别无选择，只能和伯斯特纳小姐说几句话。关于我自己。这并不是她唯一让我担心的事情。” “太太。格鲁巴赫，你完全走错了路，”K说，气得他几乎无法掩饰，“而且你还误解了我对伯斯特纳小姐所说的话，那不是我的意思。事实上，我非常直接地警告你不要对她说任何话，你大错特错了，我非常了解伯斯特纳小姐，你说的话根本没有道理。而且，也许我会说得太远，我不想妨碍你，你觉得合适就对她说吧。晚安。” “先生。 K.，”格鲁巴赫夫人说，好像在向他要什么东西，然后快步走向他已经打开的门，“我根本不想和伯斯特纳小姐说话，现在还不想，当然我会继续保持下去。我注视着她，但你是我唯一告诉过我所知道的人。毕竟，如果她想让房子保持得体，每个出租房间的人都必须这样做，这就是我正在努力做的。” “体面的！” “K.从门缝里喊道，“如果你想让房子保持得体，你首先得通知我。然后他把门关上，门外传来轻轻的敲门声，但他没有再理睬。

He did not feel at all like going to bed, so he decided to stay up, and this would also give him the chance to find out when Miss Burstner would arrive home. Perhaps it would also still be possible, even if a little inappropriate, to have a few words with her. As he lay there by the window, pressing his hands to his tired eyes, he even thought for a moment that he might punish Mrs. Grubach by persuading Miss Burstner to give in her notice at the same time as he would. But he immediately realised that that would be shockingly excessive, and there would even be the suspicion that he was moving house because of the incidents of that morning. Nothing would have been more nonsensical and, above all, more pointless and contemptible.
他根本不想睡觉，所以他决定熬夜，这样他也有机会知道伯斯特纳小姐什么时候回家。或许，即使有些不合适，也还是可以和她说几句话的。当他躺在窗边，用手捂住疲惫的眼睛时，他甚至有一瞬间想到，他可以通过说服伯斯特纳小姐和他同时通知她来惩罚格鲁巴赫太太。但他立刻就意识到，这太过分了，甚至让人怀疑他是因为那天早上的事情而搬家了。没有什么比这更荒唐、更无意义、更可鄙的了。

When he had become tired of looking out onto the empty street he slightly opened the door to the living room so that he could see anyone who entered the flat from where he was and lay down on the couch. He lay there, quietly smoking a cigar, until about eleven o’clock. He wasn’t able to hold out longer than that, and went a little way into the hallway as if in that way he could make Miss Burstner arrive sooner. He had no particular desire for her, he could not even remember what she looked like, but now he wanted to speak to her and it irritated him that her late arrival home meant this day would be full of unease and disorder right to its very end. It was also her fault that he had not had any dinner that evening and that he had been unable to visit Elsa as he had intended. He could still make up for both of those things, though, if he went to the wine bar where Elsa worked. He wanted to do so even later, after the discussion with Miss Burstner.
当他厌倦了眺望空荡荡的街道时，他轻轻地打开了客厅的门，这样他就可以看到任何从他所在的地方进入公寓并躺在沙发上的人。他躺在那里，静静地抽着雪茄，直到十一点左右。他没能坚持得更久，于是往走廊里走了一小段路，好像这样他就能让伯斯特纳小姐早点到达。他对她没有什么特别的渴望，他甚至不记得她长什么样，但现在他想和她说话，但令他恼火的是，她迟到了，这意味着这一天将充满不安和混乱。 。那天晚上他没有吃晚饭，没能按计划去拜访艾尔莎，这也是她的错。不过，如果他去艾莎工作的酒吧，他仍然可以弥补这两件事。在与伯斯特纳小姐讨论之后，他甚至想稍后再这样做。

It was already gone half past eleven when someone could be heard in the stairway. K., who had been lost in his thoughts in the hallway, walking up and down loudly as if it were his own room, fled behind his door. Miss Burstner had arrived. Shivering, she pulled a silk shawl over her slender shoulders as she locked the door. The next moment she would certainly go into her room, where K. ought not to intrude in the middle of the night; that meant he would have to speak to her now, but, unfortunately, he had not put the electric light on in his room so that when he stepped out of the dark it would give the impression of being an attack and would certainly, at the very least, have been quite alarming. There was no time to lose, and in his helplessness he whispered through the crack of the door, “Miss Burstner.” It sounded like he was pleading with her, not calling to her. “Is there someone there?” asked Miss Burstner, looking round with her eyes wide open. “It’s me,” said K. and came out. “Oh, Mr. K.!” said Miss Burstner with a smile. “Good Evening,” and offered him her hand. “I wanted to have a word with you, if you would allow me?” “Now?” asked Miss Burstner, “does it have to be now? It is a little odd, isn’t it?” “I’ve been waiting for you since nine o’clock.” “Well, I was at the theatre, I didn’t know anything about you waiting for me.” “The reason I need to speak to you only came up today” “I see, well I don’t see why not, I suppose, apart from being so tired I could drop. Come into my room for a few minutes then. We certainly can’t talk out here, we’d wake everyone up and I think that would be more unpleasant for us than for them. Wait here till I’ve put the light on in my room, and then turn the light down out here.” K. did as he was told, and then even waited until Miss Burstner came out of her room and quietly invited him, once more, to come in. “Sit down,” she said, indicating the ottoman, while she herself remained standing by the bedpost despite the tiredness she had spoken of; she did not even take off her hat, which was small but decorated with an abundance of flowers. “What is it you wanted, then? I’m really quite curious.” She gently crossed her legs. “I expect you’ll say,” K. began, “that the matter really isn’t all that urgent and we don’t need to talk about it right now, but …” “I never listen to introductions,” said Miss Burstner. “That makes my job so much easier,” said K. “This morning, to some extent through my fault, your room was made a little untidy, this happened because of people I did not know and against my will but, as I said, because of my fault; I wanted to apologise for it.” “My room?” asked Miss Burstner, and instead of looking round the room scrutinised K. “It is true,” said K., and now, for the first time, they looked each other in the eyes, “there’s no point in saying exactly how this came about.” “But that’s the interesting thing about it,” said Miss Burstner. “No,” said K. “Well then,” said Miss Burstner, “I don’t want to force my way into any secrets, if you insist that it’s of no interest I won’t insist. I’m quite happy to forgive you for it, as you ask, especially as I can’t see anything at all that’s been left untidy.” With her hand laid flat on her lower hip, she made a tour around the room. At the mat where the photographs were she stopped. “Look at this!” she cried. “My photographs really have been put in the wrong places. Oh, that’s horrible. Someone really has been in my room without permission.” K. nodded, and quietly cursed Kaminer who worked at his bank and who was always active doing things that had neither use nor purpose. “It is odd,” said Miss Burstner, “that I’m forced to forbid you to do something that you ought to have forbidden yourself to do, namely to come into my room when I’m not here.” “But I did explain to you,” said K., and went over to join her by the photographs, “that it wasn’t me who interfered with your photographs; but as you don’t believe me I’ll have to admit that the investigating committee brought along three bank employees with them, one of them must have touched your photographs and as soon as I get the chance I’ll ask to have him dismissed from the bank. Yes, there was an investigating committee here,” added K., as the young lady was looking at him enquiringly. “Because of you?” she asked. “Yes,” answered K. “No!” the lady cried with a laugh. “Yes, they were,” said K., “you believe that I’m innocent then, do you?” “Well now, innocent … “ said the lady, “I don’t want to start making any pronouncements that might have serious consequences, I don’t really know you after all, it means they’re dealing with a serious criminal if they send an investigating committee straight out to get him. But you’re not in custody now at least I take it you’ve not escaped from prison considering that you seem quite calm so you can’t have committed any crime of that sort.” “Yes,” said K., “but it might be that the investigating committee could see that I’m innocent, or not so guilty as had been supposed.” “Yes, that’s certainly a possibility,” said Miss Burstner, who seemed very interested. “Listen,” said K., “you don’t have much experience in legal matters.” “No, that’s true, I don’t,” said Miss Burstner, “and I’ve often regretted it, as I’d like to know everything and I’m very interested in legal matters. There’s something peculiarly attractive about the law, isn’t there? But I’ll certainly be perfecting my knowledge in this area, as next month I start work in a legal office.” “That’s very good,” said K., “that means you’ll be able to give me some help with my trial.” “That could well be,” said Miss Burstner, “why not? I like to make use of what I know.” “I mean it quite seriously,” said K., “or at least, half seriously, as you do. This affair is too petty to call in a lawyer, but I could make good use of someone who could give me advice.” “Yes, but if I’m to give you advice I’ll have to know what it’s all about,” said Miss Burstner. “That’s exactly the problem,” said K., “I don’t know that myself.” “So you have been making fun of me, then,” said Miss Burstner exceedingly disappointed, “you really ought not to try something like that on at this time of night.” And she stepped away from the photographs where they had stood so long together. “Miss Burstner, no,” said K., “I’m not making fun of you. Please believe me! I’ve already told you everything I know. More than I know, in fact, as it actually wasn’t even an investigating committee, that’s just what I called them because I don’t know what else to call them. There was no cross questioning at all, I was merely arrested, but by a committee.” Miss Burstner sat on the ottoman and laughed again. “What was it like then?” she asked. “It was terrible” said K., although his mind was no longer on the subject, he had become totally absorbed by Miss Burstner’s gaze who was supporting her chin on one hand the elbow rested on the cushion of the ottoman and slowly stroking her hip with the other. “That’s too vague,” said Miss Burstner. “What’s too vague?” asked K. Then he remembered himself and asked, “Would you like me to show you what it was like?” He wanted to move in some way but did not want to leave. “I’m already tired,” said Miss Burstner. “You arrived back so late,” said K. “Now you’ve started telling me off. Well I suppose I deserve it as I shouldn’t have let you in here in the first place, and it turns out there wasn’t even any point.” “Oh, there was a point, you’ll see now how important a point it was,” said K. “May I move this table away from your bedside and put it here?” “What do you think you’re doing?” said Miss Burstner. “Of course you can’t!” “In that case I can’t show you,” said K., quite upset, as if Miss Burstner had committed some incomprehensible offence against him. “Alright then, if you need it to show what you mean, just take the bedside table then,” said Miss Burstner, and after a short pause added in a weak voice, “I’m so tired I’m allowing more than I ought to.” K. put the little table in the middle of the room and sat down behind it. “You have to get a proper idea of where the people were situated, it is very interesting. I’m the supervisor, sitting over there on the chest are two policemen, standing next to the photographs there are three young people. Hanging on the handle of the window is a white blouse I just mention that by the way. And now it begins. Ah yes, I’m forgetting myself, the most important person of all, so I’m standing here in front of the table. the supervisor is sitting extremely comfortably with his legs crossed and his arm hanging over the backrest here like some layabout. And now it really does begin. the supervisor calls out as if he had to wake me up, in fact he shouts at me, I’m afraid, if I’m to make it clear to you, I’ll have to shout as well, and it’s nothing more than my name that he shouts out.” Miss Burstner, laughing as she listened to him, laid her forefinger on her mouth so that K. would not shout, but it was too late. K. was too engrossed in his role and slowly called out, “Josef K.!”. It was not as loud as he had threatened, but nonetheless, once he had suddenly called it out, the cry seemed gradually to spread itself all round the room.
时间已经十一点半了，楼梯里传来有人的声音。 K.在走廊里陷入沉思，像在自己的房间一样大声走来走去，从门后逃走了。伯斯特纳小姐来了。当她锁上门时，她颤抖着，拉了一条丝绸披肩在她纤细的肩膀上。下一刻她肯定会走进自己的房间，K. 不应该在半夜闯入她的房间。这意味着他现在必须和她说话，但不幸的是，他没有打开房间里的电灯，这样当他走出黑暗时，就会给人一种受到攻击的印象，而且肯定会在他的房间里打开电灯。至少，已经相当令人震惊了。时间已刻不容缓，他在无助中从门缝里低声说道：“伯斯特纳小姐。”听起来他像是在恳求她，而不是在呼唤她。 “有人吗？”伯斯特纳小姐睁大眼睛环顾四周问道。 “是我。”K. 说完就走了出来。 “哦，K先生！”伯斯特纳小姐微笑着说道。 “晚上好，”并向他伸出了手。 “我想和你说句话，你可以允许吗？” “现在？”伯斯特纳小姐问道：“一定是现在吗？这有点奇怪，不是吗？” “我从九点就在等你了。” “嗯，我当时在剧院，不知道你在等我。” “我需要和你说话的原因是今天才出现的。”“我明白了，我想我不明白为什么不这么做，除了太累了，我可能会摔倒。那么到我的房间来几分钟吧。我们当然不能在这里说话，我们会吵醒每个人，我认为这对我们来说比对他们来说更不愉快。你在这里等我把房间的灯打开，然后再把外面的灯关小。” K. 他按照吩咐做了，然后甚至等到伯斯特纳小姐从她的房间里出来，再次悄悄地邀请他进来。“坐下，”她指着脚凳说，而她自己则仍然站在床柱旁。尽管她说过很累；她甚至没有摘下帽子，帽子虽小，但装饰着大量的鲜花。 “那你想要什么？我真的很好奇。”她轻轻地交叉着双腿。 “我希望你会说，”K. 开始说，“事情确实没那么紧急，我们现在不需要谈论它，但是……”“我从不听介绍，”小姐说。爆裂者。 “这让我的工作轻松多了，”K 说，“今天早上，在某种程度上，由于我的过错，你的房间变得有点乱，这是因为我不认识的人，而且是违背我意愿的，但是，正如我所说的， ，因为我的错；我想为此道歉。” “我的房间？”伯斯特纳小姐问道，她并没有环顾房间，而是仔细地审视着 K。关于。” “但这就是它的有趣之处，”伯斯特纳小姐说。 “不，”K说。“那么，”伯斯特纳小姐说，“我不想强行透露任何秘密，如果你坚持认为这没有兴趣，我也不会坚持。我很高兴按照你的要求原谅你，特别是因为我根本看不到任何不整洁的地方。”她把手平放在臀部下部，在房间里转了一圈。她在放照片的垫子前停了下来。 “看这个！”她哭了。 “我的照片确实被放错了地方。哦，那太可怕了。确实有人未经允许就闯入过我的房间。” K. 点点头，暗暗咒骂卡米纳这个在他的银行工作的人，总是主动做一些没有用处和目的的事情。 “这很奇怪，”伯斯特纳小姐说，“我被迫禁止你做一些你应该禁止自己做的事情，即当我不在的时候进入我的房间。” “但我确实向你解释过，”K.说着，走到她身边，拿着照片，“不是我干扰了你的照片；而是我干扰了你的照片。”但既然你不相信我，我就不得不承认，调查委员会带来了三名银行员工，其中一人肯定碰过你的照片，一有机会我就会要求解雇他从银行。是的，这里有一个调查委员会，”当那位年轻女士询问地看着他时，K. 补充道。 “因为有你？”她问。 “是的，”K回答说，“不！”那位女士笑着哭了。 “是的，他们是，”K说，“那么你相信我是无辜的，是吗？” “好吧，无辜的……”这位女士说，“我不想开始发表任何可能会产生严重后果的声明，毕竟我并不真正了解你，这意味着他们正在与一个严重的罪犯打交道，如果他们直接派一个调查委员会去抓他但你现在没有被拘留，至少我认为你没有越狱，因为你看起来很冷静，所以你不可能犯下任何此类罪行。” “是的，”K. 说，“但调查委员会可能会认为我是无辜的，或者不像人们想象的那么有罪。” “是的，这当然有可能，”伯斯特纳小姐说道，她似乎很感兴趣。 “听着，”K. 说，“你在法律事务上没有太多经验。” “不，确实如此，我不知道，”伯斯特纳小姐说，“而且我经常后悔，因为我想知道一切，而且我对法律事务非常感兴趣。法律有一些特别吸引人的地方，不是吗？但我肯定会完善我在这一领域的知识，因为下个月我将开始在法律办公室工作。” “这很好，”K 说，“这意味着你可以在我的审判中为我提供一些帮助。” “这很可能，”伯斯特纳小姐说，“为什么不呢？我喜欢利用我所知道的东西。” “我的意思是非常认真的，”K说，“或者至少是半认真的，就像你一样。这件事太小了，不能请律师，但我可以好好利用一个能给我建议的人。” “是的，但如果我要给你建议，我就必须知道这一切是怎么回事，”伯斯特纳小姐说。 “这正是问题所在，”K. 说，“我自己也不知道。” “那么，你一直在取笑我，”伯斯特纳小姐非常失望地说，“你真的不应该在深夜这个时候尝试这样的事情。”她从他们长久以来站在一起的照片旁走开。 “伯斯特纳小姐，不，”K说，“我不是在取笑你。请相信我！我已经告诉你我所知道的一切了。事实上，比我知道的还要多，因为它实际上甚至不是一个调查委员会，这就是我对他们的称呼，因为我不知道还能称呼他们什么。根本没有交叉询问，我只是被一个委员会逮捕了。”伯斯特纳小姐坐在脚凳上，又笑了。 “当时的情况怎么样？”她问。 “太可怕了”K 说。虽然他的注意力已经不在这个话题上，但他已经完全被伯斯特纳小姐的目光所吸引，她一只手托着下巴，肘部靠在脚凳的垫子上，另一只手慢慢地抚摸着她的臀部。 “这太模糊了，”伯斯特纳小姐说。 “什么太模糊了？” K问道。然后他想起了自己，问道：“你想让我给你看看那是什么样子吗？”他想以某种方式移动，但又不想离开。 “我已经累了，”伯斯特纳小姐说。 “你回来这么晚了，”K说，“现在你开始责备我了。好吧，我想这是我应得的，因为我一开始就不应该让你进来，但事实证明这根本没有任何意义。” “噢，有一点，你现在就会明白这一点有多重要了，”K 说，“我可以把这张桌子从你的床边移开，放到这里吗？” “你觉得你在做什么？”伯斯特纳小姐说。 “当然不能！” “那样的话我就不能给你看了，”K. 非常沮丧地说，好像伯斯特纳小姐对他犯下了某种难以理解的罪行。 “好吧，如果你需要它来表达你的意思，那就把床头柜拿过来吧，”伯斯特纳小姐说，短暂的停顿后，用微弱的声音补充道，“我太累了，我允许的东西超过了我的能力。”应该。” K.把小桌子放在房间中央，然后在它后面坐下。 “你必须正确了解人们所在的位置，这非常有趣。我是主管，箱子那边坐着两个警察，照片旁边站着三个年轻人。窗把手上挂着一件白色衬衫，我只是顺便提一下。现在开始了。啊，是的，我忘记了我自己，我是所有人中最重要的人，所以我站在桌子前面。 主管坐得非常舒服，双腿交叉，手臂垂在靠背上，就像一个懒惰的人。现在它真的开始了。主管大喊好像要叫醒我，实际上是对我喊，我怕我要跟你说清楚，我也得喊，无非就是他喊出我的名字。”伯斯特纳小姐一边听他说话，一边大笑，她把食指放在嘴上，免得K.大喊大叫，但已经太晚了。 K. 太专注于自己的角色，慢慢地喊道：“Josef K.！”。声音并不像他威胁的那么大，但尽管如此，一旦他突然叫出声来，哭声似乎就逐渐传遍了整个房间。

There was a series of loud, curt and regular knocks at the door of the adjoining room. Miss Burstner went pale and laid her hand on her heart. K. was especially startled, as for a moment he had been quite unable to think of anything other than the events of that morning and the girl for whom he was performing them. He had hardly pulled himself together when he jumped over to Miss Burstner and took her hand. “Don’t be afraid,” he whispered, “I’ll put everything right. But who can it be? It’s only the living room next door, nobody sleeps in there.” “Yes they do,” whispered Miss Burstner into K.’s ear, “a nephew of Mrs. Grubach’s, an captain in the army, has been sleeping there since yesterday. There’s no other room free. I’d forgotten about it too. Why did you have to shout like that? You’ve made me quite upset.” “There is no reason for it,” said K., and, now as she sank back onto the cushion, kissed her forehead. “Go away, go away,” she said, hurriedly sitting back up, “get out of here, go, what is it you want, he’s listening at the door he can hear everything. You’re causing me so much trouble!” “I won’t go,” said K., “until you’ve calmed down a bit. Come over into the other corner of the room, he won’t be able to hear us there.” She let him lead her there. “Don’t forget,” he said, “although this might be unpleasant for you you’re not in any real danger. You know how much esteem Mrs. Grubach has for me, she’s the one who will make all the decisions in this, especially as the captain is her nephew, but she believes everything I say without question. What’s more, she has borrowed a large sum of money from me and that makes her dependent on me. I will confirm whatever you say to explain our being here together, however inappropriate it might be, and I guarantee to make sure that Mrs. Grubach will not only say she believes the explanation in public but will believe it truly and sincerely. You will have no need to consider me in any way. If you wish to let it be known that I have attacked you then Mrs. Grubach will be informed of such and she will believe it without even losing her trust in me, that’s how much respect she has for me.” Miss Burstner looked at the floor in front of her, quiet and a little sunk in on herself. “Why would Mrs. Grubach not believe that I’ve attacked you?” added K. He looked at her hair in front of him, parted, bunched down, reddish and firmly held in place. He thought she would look up at him, but without changing her manner she said, “Forgive me, but it was the suddenness of the knocking that startled me so much, not so much what the consequences of the captain being here might be. It was all so quiet after you’d shouted, and then there was the knocking, that’s was made me so shocked, and I was sitting right by the door, the knocking was right next to me. Thank you for your suggestions, but I won’t accept them. I can bear the responsibility for anything that happens in my room myself, and I can do so with anyone. I’m surprised you don’t realise just how insulting your suggestions are and what they imply about me, although I certainly acknowledge your good intentions. But now, please go, leave me alone, I need you to go now even more than I did earlier. The couple of minutes you asked for have grown into half an hour, more than half an hour now.” K. took hold of her hand, and then of her wrist, “You’re not cross with me, though?” he said. She pulled her hand away and answered, “No, no, I’m never cross with anyone.” He grasped her wrist once more, she tolerated it now and, in that way, lead him to the door. He had fully intended to leave. But when he reached the door he came to a halt as if he hadn’t expected to find a door there, Miss Burstner made use of that moment to get herself free, open the door, slip out into the hallway and gently say to K. from there, “Now, come along, please. Look,” she pointed to the captain’s door, from under which there was a light shining, “he’s put a light on and he’s laughing at us.” “Alright, I’m coming,” said K., moved forward, took hold of her, kissed her on the mouth and then over her whole face like a thirsty animal lapping with its tongue when it eventually finds water. He finally kissed her on her neck and her throat and left his lips pressed there for a long time. He did not look up until there was a noise from the captain’s room. “I’ll go now,” he said, he wanted to address Miss Burstner by her Christian name, but did not know it. She gave him a tired nod, offered him her hand to kiss as she turned away as if she did not know what she was doing, and went back into her room with her head bowed. A short while later, K. was lying in his bed. He very soon went to sleep, but before he did he thought a little while about his behaviour, he was satisfied with it but felt some surprise that he was not more satisfied; he was seriously worried about Miss Burstner because of the captain.
隔壁房间的门传来一连串响亮、简短、规律的敲击声。伯斯特纳小姐脸色苍白，把手放在心口上。 K.尤其吃惊，因为一时之间，除了那天早上发生的事情和他为之表演的那个女孩之外，他完全无法思考任何事情。他刚恢复过来，就跳到伯斯特纳小姐身边，握住了她的手。 “别害怕，”他低声说道，“我会解决一切问题的。”但会是谁呢？隔壁只是客厅，没有人在里面睡觉。” “是的，”伯斯特纳小姐在 K 耳边低声说道，“格鲁巴赫夫人的一个侄子，一名陆军上尉，从昨天起就睡在那里。没有其他空房间了。我也忘记了。你为什么要这样喊叫？你让我很不高兴。” “没有理由，”K.说着，坐回垫子上，亲吻了她的额头。 “走开，走开，”她说着，赶紧坐了起来，“离开这里，走吧，你想做什么，他在门口听着，他什么都能听到。你给我添了很多麻烦！” “我不会去，”K说，“直到你平静下来。到房间的另一个角落来，他在那里听不到我们的声音。”她让他带她去那里。 “别忘了，”他说，“虽然这可能会让你不舒服，但你并没有处于任何真正的危险之中。你知道格鲁巴赫夫人对我有多尊重，她是所有决定的人，特别是船长是她的侄子，但她毫无疑问地相信我所说的一切。更重要的是，她向我借了一大笔钱，这让她对我产生了依赖。 我会确认你所说的任何解释我们在一起的理由，不管它有多么不恰当，而且我保证格鲁巴赫夫人不仅会在公开场合说她相信这个解释，而且会真正、真诚地相信它。你没有必要以任何方式考虑我。如果你想让别人知道我袭击了你，那么格鲁巴赫夫人就会知道，她也会相信，甚至不会失去对我的信任，这就是她对我的尊重。”伯斯特纳小姐看着她面前的地板，很安静，有点沉浸在自己的世界里。 “为什么格鲁巴赫夫人不相信我袭击了你？” K补充道。他看着她面前的头发，分开，扎成一束，呈红色，牢牢地固定在适当的位置。他以为她会抬头看他，但她的态度没有改变，说道：“请原谅，但让我吃惊的是敲门声的突然性，而不是船长在这里可能带来的后果。你喊完之后一切都很安静，然后有敲门声，这让我很震惊，我坐在门边，敲门声就在我旁边。谢谢你的建议，但我不会接受。我自己可以对我房间里发生的任何事情承担责任，我可以对任何人承担责任。我很惊讶你没有意识到你的建议是多么侮辱以及它们对我意味着什么，尽管我当然承认你的善意。但现在，请走吧，别打扰我，我现在比之前更需要你走。你要求的几分钟已经变成了半个小时，现在已经超过半个小时了。” K.握住她的手，然后握住她的手腕，“你没有生我的气吗？”他说。 她把手抽开，回答道：“不，不，我从来不生任何人的气。”他再次抓住了她的手腕，她忍了下来，就这样带着他往门口走去。他已经完全打算离开了。但当他走到门口时，他停了下来，好像没想到会在那里找到一扇门一样，伯斯特纳小姐利用这一刻挣脱了束缚，打开门，溜进走廊，轻轻地对K说： ......从那里，“现在，请过来。你看，”她指着船长的门，门下有一盏灯在闪烁，“他开了灯，正在嘲笑我们。” “好吧，我来了。”K说着向前走去，抓住了她，吻了她的嘴，然后吻了她的整个脸，就像一只口渴的动物最终找到水时用舌头舔食一样。他最终吻住了她的脖子和喉咙，并把嘴唇久久地压在那里。直到船长室传来响动声，他才抬起头来。 “我现在就走，”他说，他想用伯斯特纳小姐的教名称呼她，但他自己不知道。她疲倦地点点头，伸出手来亲吻他，然后转过身去，仿佛她不知道自己在做什么，然后低着头回到自己的房间。不久之后，K. 躺在床上。他很快就睡着了，但在睡之前，他想了一会儿自己的行为，他对此感到满意，但又有些惊讶，因为他并没有更满意；因为船长的缘故，他非常担心伯斯特纳小姐。

Chapter Two
第二章

First Cross-examination
第一次交叉询问

K. was informed by telephone that there would be a small hearing concerning his case the following Sunday. He was made aware that these cross examinations would follow one another regularly, perhaps not every week but quite frequently. On the one hand it was in everyone’s interest to bring proceedings quickly to their conclusion, but on the other hand every aspect of the examinations had to be carried out thoroughly without lasting too long because of the associated stress. For these reasons, it had been decided to hold a series of brief examinations following on one after another. Sunday had been chosen as the day for the hearings so that K. would not be disturbed in his professional work. It was assumed that he would be in agreement with this, but if he wished for another date then, as far as possible, he would be accommodated. Cross-examinations could even be held in the night, for instance, but K. would probably not be fresh enough at that time. Anyway, as long as K. made no objection, the hearing would be left on Sundays. It was a matter of course that he would have to appear without fail, there was probably no need to point this out to him. He would be given the number of the building where he was to present himself, which was in a street in a suburb well away from the city centre which K. had never been to before.
K. 通过电话得知，下周日将就他的案件举行一次小型听证会。他知道这些盘问会定期进行，也许不是每周一次，但相当频繁。一方面，尽快结束诉讼符合每个人的利益，但另一方面，考试的各个方面都必须彻底进行，不能因为相关压力而持续太久。出于这些原因，决定依次进行一系列简短的检查。选择周日作为听证会的日期是为了避免 K. 的专业工作受到干扰。人们认为他会同意这一点，但如果他希望下次约会，那么我们会尽可能满足他的要求。例如，盘问甚至可以在晚上进行，但那时 K. 可能还不够新鲜。无论如何，只要K.不反对，听证会就会留在周日。他一定要出现，这是理所当然的事，或许没有必要向他指出这一点。他会得到他要出席的建筑物的号码，该建筑物位于远离市中心的郊区的一条街道上，K. 以前从未去过。

Once he had received this notice, K. hung up the receiver without giving an answer; he had decided immediately to go there that Sunday, it was certainly necessary, proceedings had begun and he had to face up to it, and this first examination would probably also be the last. He was still standing in thought by the telephone when he heard the voice of the deputy director behind him he wanted to use the telephone but K. stood in his way. “Bad news?” asked the deputy director casually, not in order to find anything out but just to get K. away from the device. “No, no, “ said K., he stepped to one side but did not go away entirely. The deputy director picked up the receiver and, as he waited for his connection, turned away from it and said to K., “One question, Mr. K.: Would you like to give me the pleasure of joining me on my sailing boat on Sunday morning? There’s quite a few people coming, you’re bound to know some of them. One of them is Hasterer, the state attorney. Would you like to come along? Do come along!” K. tried to pay attention to what the deputy director was saying. It was of no small importance for him, as this invitation from the deputy director, with whom he had never got on very well, meant that he was trying to improve his relations with him. It showed how important K. had become in the bank and how its second most important official seemed to value his friendship, or at least his impartiality. He was only speaking at the side of the telephone receiver while he waited for his connection, but in giving this invitation the deputy director was humbling himself. But K. would have to humiliate him a second time as a result, he said, “Thank you very much, but I’m afraid I will have no time on Sunday, I have a previous obligation.” “Pity,” said the deputy director, and turned to the telephone conversation that had just been connected. It was not a short conversation, but K., remained standing confused by the instrument all the time it was going on. It was only when the deputy director hung up that he was shocked into awareness and said, in order to partially excuse his standing there for no reason, “I’ve just received a telephone call, there’s somewhere I need to go, but they forgot to tell me what time.” “Ask them then,” said the deputy director. “It’s not that important,” said K., although in that way his earlier excuse, already weak enough, was made even weaker. As he went, the deputy director continued to speak about other things. K. forced himself to answer, but his thoughts were mainly about that Sunday, how it would be best to get there for nine o’clock in the morning as that was the time that courts always start work on weekdays.
K.接到通知后，没有回答就挂断了听筒。他已经决定周日就去那里，这当然是必要的，诉讼已经开始，他必须面对它，这第一次检查也可能是最后一次。他正站在电话旁沉思，就听到身后副主任的声音，他想打电话，但K.挡住了他的路。 “坏消息？”副局长漫不经心地问道，并不是为了查出什么，只是为了让K离开那个装置。 “不，不，”K说道，他走到一侧，但并没有完全走开。副主任拿起听筒，在等待接通的同时，转身对 K. 说：“有一个问题，K 先生：您愿意让我高兴地和我一起登上我的帆船吗？”在星期日的早上？来的人不少，你一定认识其中的一些人。其中之一是州检察官哈斯特勒。你要一起来吗？一定要一起来！” K.试图注意副主任所说的话。这对他来说意义不小，因为这位与他关系一直不太好的副局长的邀请，意味着他正在努力改善与他的关系。这表明K. 在银行中变得多么重要，以及银行的第二重要官员似乎多么重视他的友谊，或者至少是他的公正性。他只是在等待接通时在电话听筒旁边说话，但副局长发出这样的邀请，却是在自谦。但结果K.又要羞辱他了，他说：“非常感谢，但我恐怕周日没有时间，我还有之前的义务。”” “可惜了。”副局长说道，然后就开始了刚刚接通的电话通话。这不是一次简短的谈话，但K.在整个过程中一直对仪器感到困惑。直到挂断电话，副局长才惊醒过来，为了给自己无缘无故站在那里辩解，说道：“我刚刚接到电话，我要去一个地方，但他们忘记了。”告诉我什么时间。” “那就问问他们吧。”副主任说道。 “这并不重要，”K. 说，尽管如此一来，他先前已经足够软弱的借口变得更加软弱。一边走，副主任一边继续说着别的事情。 K.强迫自己回答，但他的想法主要是那个周日，最好是在早上九点钟到达那里，因为工作日法院总是在这个时间开始工作。

The weather was dull on Sunday. K. was very tired, as he had stayed out drinking until late in the night celebrating with some of the regulars, and he had almost overslept. He dressed hurriedly, without the time to think and assemble the various plans he had worked out during the week. With no breakfast, he rushed to the suburb he had been told about. Oddly enough, although he had little time to look around him, he came across the three bank officials involved in his case, Rabensteiner, Kullich and Kaminer. The first two were travelling in a tram that went across K.’s route, but Kaminer sat on the terrace of a cafŽ and leant curiously over the wall as K. came over. All of them seemed to be looking at him, surprised at seeing their superior running; it was a kind of pride that made K. want to go on foot, this was his affair and the idea of any help from strangers, however slight, was repulsive to him, he also wanted to avoid asking for anyone’s help because that would initiate them into the affair even if only slightly. And after all, he had no wish at all to humiliate himself before the committee by being too punctual. Anyway, now he was running so that he would get there by nine o’clock if at all possible, even though he had no appointment for this time.
周日天气阴沉。 K. 非常累，因为他一直在外面喝酒，直到深夜与一些常客庆祝，他几乎睡过头了。他匆匆穿好衣服，没有时间思考和整理这一周制定的各种计划。没有吃早饭，他就赶往听说的郊区。奇怪的是，尽管他几乎没有时间环顾四周，但他还是遇到了与他的案件有关的三名银行官员：拉本斯坦纳、库利奇和卡米纳。前两个人乘坐的电车穿过 K. 的路线，但当 K. 走过来时，卡米纳坐在一家咖啡馆的露台上，好奇地靠在墙上。他们似乎都在看着他，惊讶地发现自己跑得比他出色。是一种自豪感让K.想要步行，这是他的事，陌生人的任何帮助，无论多么轻微，他都会感到厌恶，他也想避免寻求任何人的帮助，因为这会引发即使只是轻微的，他们也会卷入这件事。毕竟，他根本不想因为太准时而在委员会面前丢脸。无论如何，现在他正在跑步，以便尽可能在九点前到达那里，尽管这次他没有预约。

He had thought that he would recognise the building from a distance by some kind of sign, without knowing exactly what the sign would look like, or from some particular kind of activity outside the entrance. K. had been told that the building was in Juliusstrasse, but when he stood at the street’s entrance it consisted on each side of almost nothing but monotonous, grey constructions, tall blocks of flats occupied by poor people. Now, on a Sunday morning, most of the windows were occupied, men in their shirtsleeves leant out smoking, or carefully and gently held small children on the sills. Other windows were piled up with bedding, above which the dishevelled head of a woman would briefly appear. People called out to each other across the street, one of the calls provoked a loud laugh about K. himself. It was a long street, and spaced evenly along it were small shops below street level, selling various kinds of foodstuffs, which you reached by going down a few steps. Women went in and out of them or stood chatting on the steps. A fruitmonger, taking his goods up to the windows, was just as inattentive as K. and nearly knocked him down with his cart. Just then, a gramophone, which in better parts of town would have been seen as worn out, began to play some murderous tune.
他原以为他会从远处通过某种标志认出这座建筑，但并不知道该标志到底是什么样子，或者从入口外的某种特定活动中认出。 K.被告知这座建筑位于朱利叶斯大街，但当他站在街道入口处时，街道两边几乎什么都没有，只有单调的灰色建筑和穷人居住的高楼公寓。现在，在周日的早上，大部分窗户都被占据了，穿着衬衫的男人探出身子抽烟，或者小心翼翼地把小孩子抱在窗台上。其他窗户上堆满了被褥，上面会短暂地出现一个女人蓬乱的头。街对面的人们互相喊叫，其中一个叫声引起了人们对 K. 本人的大笑。这是一条长长的街道，街道下面均匀分布着一些小商店，出售各种食品，走下几步就到了。妇女们进进出出，或者站在台阶上聊天。一个水果商把他的货物搬到窗户边，他和 K. 一样粗心，差点用推车把他撞倒。就在这时，一台留声机开始播放一些凶残的曲子，在城里更好的地方，这台留声机会被认为已经破旧了。

K. went further into the street, slowly, as if he had plenty of time now, or as if the examining magistrate were looking at him from one of the windows and therefore knew that K. had found his way there. It was shortly after nine. The building was quite far down the street, it covered so much area it was almost extraordinary, and the gateway in particular was tall and long. It was clearly intended for delivery wagons belonging to the various warehouses all round the yard which were now locked up and carried the names of companies some of which K. knew from his work at the bank. In contrast with his usual habits, he remained standing a while at the entrance to the yard taking in all these external details. Near him, there was a bare-footed man sitting on a crate and reading a newspaper. There were two lads swinging on a hand cart. In front of a pump stood a weak, young girl in a bedjacket who, as the water flowed into her can, looked at K. There was a piece of rope stretched between two windows in a corner of the yard, with some washing hanging on it to dry. A man stood below it calling out instructions to direct the work being done.
K. 慢慢地向街道深处走去，好像他现在有足够的时间，或者好像预审法官正从​​一扇窗户里看着他，因此知道 K. 已经找到了那里的路。九点刚过不久。这座建筑距离街道相当远，占地面积之大，几乎非同寻常，尤其是大门又高又长。这显然是为院子里各个仓库的运货货车准备的，这些仓库现在都锁着，上面写着 K. 在银行工作时知道的一些公司的名称。与平时的习惯相反，他在院子门口站了一会儿，打量着这一切外部细节。在他附近，有一个赤脚的男人坐在板条箱上看报纸。有两个小伙子在手推车上荡秋千。水泵前站着一个穿着床单的虚弱的年轻女孩，当水流入她的罐子时，她看着K。院子一角的两扇窗户之间拉着一根绳子，上面挂着一些洗好的衣服。将其晾干。一名男子站在它下面，大声喊叫，指挥正在进行的工作。

K. went over to the stairway to get to the room where the hearing was to take place, but then stood still again as besides these steps he could see three other stairway entrances, and there also seemed to be a small passageway at the end of the yard leading into a second yard. It irritated him that he had not been given more precise directions to the room, it meant they were either being especially neglectful with him or especially indifferent, and he decided to make that clear to them very loudly and very unambiguously. In the end he decided to climb up the stairs, his thoughts playing on something that he remembered the policeman, Willem, saying to him; that the court is attracted by the guilt, from which it followed that the courtroom must be on the stairway that K. selected by chance.
K.走到楼梯口，准备去听证会的房间，但又站住了，因为除了这些台阶之外，他还能看到另外三个楼梯口，而且楼梯尽头似乎还有一条小通道。院子通向第二个院子。让他恼火的是，他没有得到更准确的房间方向，这意味着他们要么对他特别疏忽，要么特别冷漠，他决定非常大声、非常明确地向他们明确这一点。最后他决定爬上楼梯，脑子里浮现出他记得警察威廉对他说的话：法庭被罪名所吸引，由此推断法庭一定在K.偶然选择的楼梯上。

As he went up he disturbed a large group of children playing on the stairs who looked at him as he stepped through their rows. “Next time I come here,” he said to himself, “I must either bring sweets with me make them like me or a stick to hit them with.” Just before he reached the first landing he even had to wait a little while until a ball had finished its movement, two small lads with sly faces like grown-up scoundrels held him by his trouser-legs until it had; if he were to shake them off he would have to hurt them, and he was afraid of what noise they would make by shouting.
当他上楼时，打扰了一大群在楼梯上玩耍的孩子，当他穿过一排排的孩子时，他们都看着他。 “下次我来这里的时候，”他自言自语道，“我要么带点糖果让他们喜欢我，要么带根棍子来打他们。”就在他到达第一个平台之前，他甚至要等一会儿，直到一个球完成运动，两个小伙子一脸狡猾，像大恶棍一样抓住他的裤腿，直到球完成为止；如果他要把它们甩开，他就必须伤害它们，而且他担心它们大喊大叫会发出什么声音。

On the first floor, his search began for real. He still felt unable to ask for the investigating committee, and so he invented a joiner called Lanz that name occurred to him because the captain, Mrs. Grubach’s nephew, was called Lanz so that he could ask at every flat whether Lanz the joiner lived there and thus obtain a chance to look into the rooms. It turned out, though, that that was mostly possible without further ado, as almost all the doors were left open and the children ran in and out. Most of them were small, one-windowed rooms where they also did the cooking. Many women held babies in one arm and worked at the stove with the other. Half grown girls, who seemed to be dressed in just their pinafores worked hardest running to and fro. In every room, the beds were still in use by people who were ill, or still asleep, or people stretched out on them in their clothes. K. knocked at the flats where the doors were closed and asked whether Lanz the joiner lived there. It was usually a woman who opened the door, heard the enquiry and turned to somebody in the room who would raise himself from the bed. “The gentleman’s asking if a joiner called Lanz, lives here.” “A joiner, called Lanz?” he would ask from the bed.” “That’s right,” K. would say, although it was clear that the investigating committee was not to be found there, and so his task was at an end. There were many who thought it must be very important for K. to find Lanz the joiner and thought long about it, naming a joiner who was not called Lanz or giving a name that had some vague similarity with Lanz, or they asked neighbours or accompanied K. to a door a long way away where they thought someone of that sort might live in the back part of the building or where someone would be who could advise K. better than they could themselves. K. eventually had to give up asking if he did not want to be led all round from floor to floor in this way. He regretted his initial plan, which had at first seemed so practical to him. As he reached the fifth floor, he decided to give up the search, took his leave of a friendly, young worker who wanted to lead him on still further and went down the stairs. But then the thought of how much time he was wasting made him cross, he went back again and knocked at the first door on the fifth floor. The first thing he saw in the small room was a large clock on the wall which already showed ten o’clock. “Is there a joiner called Lanz who lives here?” he asked. “Pardon?” said a young woman with black, shining eyes who was, at that moment, washing children’s underclothes in a bucket. She pointed her wet hand towards the open door of the adjoining room.
在一楼，他开始真正的寻找。他仍然觉得无法向调查委员会提出要求，所以他发明了一个名叫兰兹的木匠，他之所以想到这个名字，是因为船长，格鲁巴赫夫人的侄子，名叫兰兹，这样他就可以在每间公寓询问木匠兰兹是否住在那里。从而获得参观房间的机会。但事实证明，这几乎是可能的，无需多费功夫，因为几乎所有的门都开着，孩子们跑进跑出。大多数房间都是只有一扇窗户的小房间，他们也在那里做饭。许多妇女一只手抱着婴儿，另一只手在炉子上干活。半成年的女孩们似乎只穿着围裙，来回奔跑时最卖力。每个房间里的床仍然被病人使用，或者还在睡觉，或者人们穿着衣服躺在床上。 K.敲了敲门关着的公寓，询问木工兰兹是否住在那里。通常是一位女士打开门，听到询问，然后转向房间里的某个人，后者会从床上站起来。 “这位先生问一位名叫兰兹的木匠是否住在这里。” “一个木匠，叫兰兹？”他会在床上问。” “没错，”K. 会说，尽管很明显在那里找不到调查委员会，因此他的任务已经结束。很多人认为K.找到木匠兰兹一定很重要，想了很久，给一个不叫兰兹的木匠命名，或者起一个与兰兹有一些模糊相似的名字，或者询问邻居或陪同K. 到很远的一扇门，他们认为这样的人可能住在大楼的后面，或者有人可以为 K. 提供建议。 比他们自己更好。 K最终不得不放弃询问他是否不想以这种方式被人从一个楼层带到另一个楼层。他对自己最初的计划感到后悔，这个计划一开始对他来说似乎很实用。当他到达五楼时，他决定放弃搜索，向一位友好的年轻工人告别，后者想带他继续往前走，然后下了楼梯。但一想到自己浪费了多少时间，他又忍不住又回去敲了敲五楼的第一扇门。进了小房间，他首先看到的就是墙上的大钟，指针已经指向十点了。 “这里住着一个叫兰兹的木匠吗？”他问。 “赦免？”一位眼睛黑亮的年轻女子说道，此时她正在桶里洗孩子们的内衣。她用湿漉漉的手指着隔壁房间开着的门。

K. thought he had stepped into a meeting. A medium sized, two windowed room was filled with the most diverse crowd of people nobody paid any attention to the person who had just entered. Close under its ceiling it was surrounded by a gallery which was also fully occupied and where the people could only stand bent down with their heads and their backs touching the ceiling. K., who found the air too stuffy, stepped out again and said to the young woman, who had probably misunderstood what he had said, “I asked for a joiner, someone by the name of Lanz.” “Yes,” said the woman, “please go on in.” K. would probably not have followed her if the woman had not gone up to him, taken hold of the door handle and said, “I’ll have to close the door after you, no-one else will be allowed in.” “Very sensible,” said K., “but it’s too full already.” But then he went back in anyway. He passed through between two men who were talking beside the door one of them held both hands far out in front of himself making the movements of counting out money, the other looked him closely in the eyes and someone took him by the hand. It was a small, red-faced youth. “Come in, come in,” he said. K. let himself be led by him, and it turned out that there was surprisingly in a densely packed crowd of people moving to and fro a narrow passage which may have been the division between two factions; this idea was reinforced by the fact that in the first few rows to the left and the right of him there was hardly any face looking in his direction, he saw nothing but the backs of people directing their speech and their movements only towards members of their own side. Most of them were dressed in black, in old, long, formal frock coats that hung down loosely around them. These clothes were the only thing that puzzled K., as he would otherwise have taken the whole assembly for a local political meeting.
K. 以为他已经参加了一个会议。一间中等大小、有两扇窗户的房间里挤满了形形色色的人群，没有人注意到刚刚进来的人。靠近天花板的地方是一个画廊，画廊也挤满了人，人们只能弯着腰站着，头和背接触天花板。 K.觉得空气太闷了，又走了出来，对年轻女子说，她可能误解了他的话，“我要了一个木工，一个名叫兰兹的人。” “是，”女人说道，“请进去吧。”如果那个女人没有走到他面前，抓住门把手，说道：“我必须在你之后关上门，其他人都不允许进来。”K.可能不会跟着她。 “非常明智，”K 说，“但已经太满了。”但后来他还是回去了。他从两个在门边说话的男人中间走过，其中一个双手远远地举在身前，做出数钱的动作，另一个仔细地看着他的眼睛，有人握住了他的手。那是一个身材矮小的、红脸的青年。 “进来吧，进来吧，”他说。 K任由他带领，结果发现，在一条狭窄的通道里，竟然有密密麻麻的人群来来往往，这可能是两派的分界线；这种想法得到了以下事实的强化：在他的左边和右边的前几排中，几乎没有任何人脸朝他的方向看，他只看到人们的背影，他们的讲话和动作只针对他们的成员。自己这边。他们中的大多数人都穿着黑色的、旧的、长的、正式的礼服，宽松地垂在身上。 这些衣服是唯一让 K. 困惑的事情，否则他会带着整个集会去参加当地的政治会议。

At the other end of the hall where K. had been led there was a little table set at an angle on a very low podium which was as overcrowded as everywhere else, and behind the table, near the edge of the podium, sat a small, fat, wheezing man who was talking with someone behind him. This second man was standing with his legs crossed and his elbows on the backrest of the chair, provoking much laughter. From time to time he threw his arm in the air as if doing a caricature of someone. The youth who was leading K. had some difficulty in reporting to the man. He had already tried twice to tell him something, standing on tiptoe, but without getting the man’s attention as he sat there above him. It was only when one of the people up on the podium drew his attention to the youth that the man turned to him and leant down to hear what it was he quietly said. Then he pulled out his watch and quickly looked over at K. “You should have been here one hour and five minutes ago,” he said. K. was going to give him a reply but had no time to do so, as hardly had the man spoken than a general muttering arose all over the right hand side of the hall. “You should have been here one hour and five minutes ago,” the man now repeated, raising his voice this time, and quickly looked round the hall beneath him. The muttering also became immediately louder and, as the man said nothing more, died away only gradually. Now the hall was much quieter than when K. had entered. Only the people up in the gallery had not stopped passing remarks. As far as could be distinguished, up in the half-darkness, dust and haze, they seemed to be less well dressed than those below. Many of them had brought pillows that they had put between their heads and the ceiling so that they would not hurt themselves pressed against it.
在 K. 被引导的大厅的另一端，有一张小桌子，倾斜地放在一个很低的讲台上，讲台和其他地方一样拥挤，桌子后面靠近讲台边缘的地方，坐着一个小人。 ，一个肥胖的、气喘吁吁的男人，正在和他身后的一个人说话。第二个人翘着二郎腿，手肘撑在椅背上，引来一阵笑声。他时不时地把手臂举到空中，好像在模仿某人。带领 K. 的年轻人在向该男子报告时遇到了一些困难。他已经两次踮起脚尖试图告诉他一些事情，但没有引起坐在他上方的那个人的注意。直到讲台上的一个人将注意力吸引到年轻人身上时，年轻人才转向他，俯身听他轻声说的话。然后他拿出手表，飞快地看了K一眼。“你应该一小时零五分钟前就到这里了，”他说。 K. 正要给他答复，但没有时间这样做，因为那个人刚说话，大厅的右手边就响起了一片议论声。 “你应该在一小时零五分钟前就到这里了，”男人现在重复道，这次提高了声音，并迅速环视了他下面的大厅。嘀咕声也立刻变大，随着男子不再说话，才渐渐平息。现在大厅里比K进来时安静多了。只有旁听席上的人还没有停止议论。就可以看出，在半明半暗、灰尘和薄雾中，他们的穿着似乎不如下面的人好。 他们中的许多人都带来了枕头，放在头和天花板之间，这样他们就不会因压在天花板上而受伤。

K. had decided he would do more watching than talking, so he did not defend himself for supposedly having come late, and simply said, “Well maybe I have arrived late, I’m here now.” There followed loud applause, once more from the right hand side of the hall. Easy people to get on your side, thought K., and was bothered only by the quiet from the left hand side which was directly behind him and from which there was applause from only a few individuals. He wondered what he could say to get all of them to support him together or, if that were not possible, to at least get the support of the others for a while.
K. 决定更多地观看而不是说话，所以他没有为自己迟到而辩护，只是说：“好吧，也许我迟到了，我现在就在这里。”随后大厅右侧再次响起热烈的掌声。很容易有人站在你这边，K想，他只被他身后左手边的安静所困扰，那里只有少数人鼓掌。他想知道他能说些什么来让他们所有人一起支持他，或者，如果不可能的话，至少获得其他人的支持一段时间。

“Yes,” said the man, “but I’m now no longer under any obligation to hear your case” there was once more a muttering, but this time it was misleading as the man waved the people’s objections aside with his hand and continued “I will, however, as an exception, continue with it today. But you should never arrive late like this again. And now, step forward!” Someone jumped down from the podium so that there would be a place free for K., and K. stepped up onto it. He stood pressed closely against the table, the press of the crowd behind him was so great that he had to press back against it if he did not want to push the judge’s desk down off the podium and perhaps the judge along with it.
“是的，”那人说道，“但我现在已经没有义务听你的案子了。”又是一片嘀咕声，但这一次是误导性的，那人用手摆开人们的反对意见，继续说道。 “不过，作为例外，我今天会继续这样做。但你不应该再像这样迟到了。现在，请向前迈进！”有人从讲台上跳下来，为K.腾出一个空位，K.走上来。他紧紧地靠着桌子站着，身后人群的压力太大了，如果他不想把法官的桌子从讲台上推下来，说不定连法官也一起被推下，他就必须向后靠。

The judge, however, paid no attention to that but sat very comfortably on his chair and, after saying a few words to close his discussion with the man behind him, reached for a little note book, the only item on his desk. It was like an old school exercise book and had become quite misshapen from much thumbing. “Now then,” said the judge, thumbing through the book. He turned to K. with the tone of someone who knows his facts and said, “you are a house painter?” “No,” said K., “I am the chief clerk in a large bank.” This reply was followed by laughter among the right hand faction down in the hall, it was so hearty that K. couldn’t stop himself joining in with it. The people supported themselves with their hands on their knees and shook as if suffering a serious attack of coughing. Even some of those in the gallery were laughing. The judge had become quite cross but seemed to have no power over those below him in the hall, he tried to reduce what harm had been done in the gallery and jumped up threatening them, his eyebrows, until then hardly remarkable, pushed themselves up and became big, black and bushy over his eyes.
然而，法官并没有注意到这一点，而是非常舒服地坐在椅子上，说了几句话结束了与身后男人的讨论后，伸手去拿一本小笔记本，这是他办公桌上唯一的东西。它就像一本老式的学校练习本，由于翻动次数太多而变得相当畸形。 “那么，”法官一边说，一边翻阅着书本。他用一种了解事实的语气转向K.：“你是一名房屋油漆工？” “不，”K说，“我是一家大银行的首席职员。”此言一出，大厅里右派一阵哄堂大笑，笑得爽朗得让K也忍不住附和起来。人们用手撑在膝盖上，浑身颤抖，仿佛咳嗽得很厉害。就连画廊里的一些人也在笑。法官变得很生气，但似乎对大厅里在他下面的人没有权力，他试图减少在画廊里造成的伤害，并跳起来威胁他们，他的眉毛，直到那时几乎不引人注目，把自己推了起来，他的眼睛变得又大又黑又浓密。

The left hand side of the hall was still quiet, though, the people stood there in rows with their faces looking towards the podium listening to what was being said there, they observed the noise from the other side of the hall with the same quietness and even allowed some individuals from their own ranks, here and there, to go forward into the other faction. The people in the left faction were not only fewer in number than the right but probably were no more important than them, although their behaviour was calmer and that made it seem like they were. When K. now began to speak he was convinced he was doing it in the same way as them.
大厅左侧依然安静，人们排成一排站在那里，面朝讲台，聆听着那里的议论，同样安静地观察着大厅另一边的喧闹声，甚至还允许时不时地有一些自己队伍中的人，进入到其他派系之中。左派的人不仅数量比右派少，而且恐怕也不比右派重要，虽然他们的行为比较平静，所以看起来很平静。当 K. 现在开始说话时，他确信自己正在以与他们相同的方式做这件事。

“Your question, My Lord, as to whether I am a house painter in fact even more than that, you did not ask at all but merely imposed it on me is symptomatic of the whole way these proceedings against me are being carried out. Perhaps you will object that there are no proceedings against me. You will be quite right, as there are proceedings only if I acknowledge that there are. But, for the moment, I do acknowledge it, out of pity for yourselves to a large extent. It’s impossible not to observe all this business without feeling pity. I don’t say things are being done without due care but I would like to make it clear that it is I who make the acknowledgement.”
“法官大人，你问我是否是一名房屋油漆工，事实上，你根本没有问过，而只是强加给我，这就是针对我的这些诉讼的整个方式的症状。也许你会反对说没有针对我的诉讼。你是对的，因为只有我承认有诉讼程序，才会有诉讼程序。但目前，我确实承认这一点，很大程度上是出于对你们自己的怜悯。目睹这一切，不可能不感到怜悯。我并不是说事情的处理没有经过应有的谨慎，但我想明确的是，是我做出了这样的承认。”

K. stopped speaking and looked down into the hall. He had spoken sharply, more sharply than he had intended, but he had been quite right. It should have been rewarded with some applause here and there but everything was quiet, they were all clearly waiting for what would follow, perhaps the quietness was laying the ground for an outbreak of activity that would bring this whole affair to an end. It was somewhat disturbing that just then the door at the end of the hall opened, the young washerwoman, who seemed to have finished her work, came in and, despite all her caution, attracted the attention of some of the people there. It was only the judge who gave K. any direct pleasure, as he seemed to have been immediately struck by K.’s words. Until then, he had listened to him standing, as K.’s speech had taken him by surprise while he was directing his attention to the gallery. Now, in the pause, he sat down very slowly, as if he did not want anyone to notice. He took out the notebook again, probably so that he could give the impression of being calmer.
K.停止说话，低头看着大厅。他说得很尖锐，比他预想的还要尖锐，但他说得很对。本来应该得到一些掌声，但一切都很安静，他们显然都在等待接下来的事情，也许这安静正在为爆发活动埋下伏笔，从而结束整个事件。令人有些不安的是，就在这时，走廊尽头的门打开了，年轻的洗衣妇似乎已经完成了工作，尽管她很小心，但还是引起了一些人的注意。只有法官才给了K.直接的快乐，因为他似乎立刻就被K.的话震撼了。在那之前，他一直站着听他讲话，因为当他把注意力转向画廊时，K.的演讲让他大吃一惊。现在，在停顿期间，他非常缓慢地坐下来，仿佛不想让任何人注意到。他又拿出笔记本，大概是为了给人一种平静的感觉。

“That won’t help you, sir, “ continued K., “even your little book will only confirm what I say.” K. was satisfied to hear nothing but his own quiet words in this room full of strangers, and he even dared casually to pick up the examining judge’s notebook and, touching it only with the tips of his fingers as if it were something revolting, lifted it in the air, holding it just by one of the middle pages so that the others on each side of it, closely written, blotted and yellowing, flapped down. “Those are the official notes of the examining judge,” he said, and let the notebook fall down onto the desk. “You can read in your book as much as you like, sir, I really don’t have anything in this charge book to be afraid of, even though I don’t have access to it as I wouldn’t want it in my hand, I can only touch it with two fingers.” The judge grabbed the notebook from where it had fallen on the desk which could only have been a sign of his deep humiliation, or at least that is how it must have been perceived tried to tidy it up a little, and held it once more in front of himself in order to read from it.
“这对你没有帮助，先生，”K继续说道，“即使你的小书也只能证实我所说的。” K.在这个满是陌生人的房间里，除了自己安静的话语外，什么也听不到，他很满意，他甚至敢于随意地拿起预审法官的笔记本，只用指尖触摸它，仿佛它是令人厌恶的东西，抬起头来。把它举在空中，只握住中间的一页，这样两边写得密密麻麻、污迹斑斑、泛黄的其他页就飘落下来。 “这些是预审法官的正式笔记，”他说，然后让笔记本掉到桌子上。 “您可以在您的书中随意阅读，先生，我在这本收费书中确实没有任何值得害怕的东西，尽管我无法访问它，因为我不希望它出现在我的书本中。”手，我只能用两个手指触摸它。”法官从桌上捡起笔记本，这只能表明他受到了深深的羞辱，或者至少人们会这么认为，他试图把它整理一下，然后再次把它捧在手里。为了阅读它。

The people in the front row looked up at him, showing such tension on their faces that he looked back down at them for some time. Every one of them was an old man, some of them with white beards. Could they perhaps be the crucial group who could turn the whole assembly one way or the other? They had sunk into a state of motionlessness while K. gave his oration, and it had not been possible to raise them from this passivity even when the judge was being humiliated. “What has happened to me,” continued K., with less of the vigour he had had earlier, he continually scanned the faces in the first row, and this gave his address a somewhat nervous and distracted character, “what has happened to me is not just an isolated case. If it were it would not be of much importance as it’s not of much importance to me, but it is a symptom of proceedings which are carried out against many. It’s on behalf of them that I stand here now, not for myself alone.”
前排的人抬头看着他，脸上的紧张表情让他低头看了他们好一会儿。他们个个都是老者，有的还留着白胡子。他们也许是能够改变整个议会的关键群体吗？当K.发表演讲时，他们陷入了一种一动不动的状态，即使法官受到羞辱，也不可能将他们从这种被动状态中唤醒。 “我发生了什么事，”K. 继续说道，他不再像之前那样精力充沛，不断扫视着第一排的面孔，这让他的讲话显得有些紧张和心烦意乱，“我发生了什么事？这不仅仅是一个孤立的案例。如果是的话，那也不会太重要，因为这对我来说并不重要，但这是针对许多人的诉讼的征兆。我现在站在这里是为了他们，而不是为了我自己。”

Without having intended it, he had raised his voice. Somewhere in the hall, someone raised his hands and applauded him shouting, “Bravo! Why not then? Bravo! Again I say, Bravo!” Some of the men in the first row groped around in their beards, none of them looked round to see who was shouting. Not even K. thought him of any importance but it did raise his spirits; he no longer thought it at all necessary that all of those in the hall should applaud him, it was enough if the majority of them began to think about the matter and if only one of them, now and then, was persuaded.
他无意中提高了声音。大厅里的某个地方，有人举手为他鼓掌，喊道：“好极了！那为什么不呢？太棒了！我再说一遍，好极了！”第一排的几个男人在胡须中摸索着，没有人回头看看是谁在喊叫。就连 K. 也不认为他有任何重要性，但这确实振奋了他的精神。他不再认为大厅里的所有人都应该为他鼓掌，只要大多数人开始思考这个问题，并且偶尔说服其中一个人就足够了。

“I’m not trying to be a successful orator,” said K. after this thought, “that’s probably more than I’m capable of anyway. I’m sure the examining judge can speak far better than I can, it is part of his job after all. All that I want is a public discussion of a public wrong. Listen: ten days ago I was placed under arrest, the arrest itself is something I laugh about but that’s beside the point. They came for me in the morning when I was still in bed. Maybe the order had been given to arrest some house painter that seems possible after what the judge has said someone who is as innocent as I am, but it was me they chose. There were two police thugs occupying the next room. They could not have taken better precautions if I had been a dangerous robber. And these policemen were unprincipled riff-raff, they talked at me till I was sick of it, they wanted bribes, they wanted to trick me into giving them my clothes, they wanted money, supposedly so that they could bring me my breakfast after they had blatantly eaten my own breakfast in front of my eyes. And even that was not enough. I was led in front of the supervisor in another room. This was the room of a lady who I have a lot of respect for, and I was forced to look on while the supervisor and the policemen made quite a mess of this room because of me, although not through any fault of mine. It was not easy to stay calm, but I managed to do so and was completely calm when I asked the supervisor why it was that I was under arrest. If he were here he would have to confirm what I say. I can see him now, sitting on the chair belonging to that lady I mentioned a picture of dull-witted arrogance. What do you think he answered? What he told me, gentlemen, was basically nothing at all; perhaps he really did know nothing, he had placed me under arrest and was satisfied. In fact he had done more than that and brought three junior employees from the bank where I work into the lady’s room; they had made themselves busy interfering with some photographs that belonged to the lady and causing a mess. There was, of course, another reason for bringing these employees; they, just like my landlady and her maid, were expected to spread the news of my arrest and damage my public reputation and in particular to remove me from my position at the bank. Well they didn’t succeed in any of that, not in the slightest, even my landlady, who is quite a simple person and I will give you here her name in full respect, her name is Mrs. Grubach even Mrs. Grubach was understanding enough to see that an arrest like this has no more significance than an attack carried out on the street by some youths who are not kept under proper control. I repeat, this whole affair has caused me nothing but unpleasantness and temporary irritation, but could it not also have had some far worse consequences?”
“我并不是想成为一名成功的演说家，”K 经过这个想法后说道，“无论如何，这可能超出了我的能力范围。我确信预审法官的发言能力比我好得多，毕竟这是他工作的一部分。我想要的只是对公共错误进行公开讨论。听着：十天前我被逮捕了，逮捕本身就是我嘲笑的事情，但这不是重点。早上，当我还在床上时，他们来找我。也许下令逮捕某个房屋油漆工，在法官所说的之后，这似乎是可能的，因为他是一个像我一样无辜的人，但他们选择了我。隔壁房间里有两个警察暴徒。如果我是一个危险的强盗，他们不可能采取更好的预防措施。这些警察都是无原则的流氓，他们对我说话，直到我厌倦了，他们想要贿赂，他们想要欺骗我把衣服给他们，他们想要钱，据说这样他们就可以给我送早餐。竟然在我眼前公然吃掉了自己的早餐。即便如此还不够。我被带到另一个房间的主管面前。这是一位我非常尊敬的女士的房间，我被迫旁观，而主管和警察却因为我而把这个房间弄得一团糟，尽管这不是我的错。保持冷静并不容易，但我做到了，当我问主管为什么我被捕时，我完全冷静了。如果他在这里，他就必须确认我所说的话。我现在可以看到他，坐在我提到的那位女士的椅子上，一副愚蠢傲慢的样子。你觉得他怎么回答？ 先生们，他告诉我的基本上什么也没有；或许他真的一无所知，他把我逮捕了，就心满意足了。事实上，他所做的还不止这些，他还从我工作的银行带了三名初级员工到女士的房间里。他们忙着干涉这位女士的一些照片，造成混乱。当然，带来这些员工还有另一个原因：他们就像我的女房东和她的女仆一样，应该传播我被捕的消息，损害我的公众声誉，特别是解除我在银行的职务。好吧，他们没有成功，一点也没有成功，即使是我的女房东，她是一个非常简单的人，我会在这里充分尊重她的名字，她的名字是格鲁巴赫夫人，甚至格鲁巴赫夫人也理解足以看出，这样的逮捕并不比一些不受适当控制的年轻人在街上进行的袭击更有意义。我再说一遍，这整件事除了给我带来不愉快和暂时的恼怒之外，什么也没有，但它难道不会带来一些更糟糕的后果吗？”

K. broke off here and looked at the judge, who said nothing. As he did so he thought he saw the judge use a movement of his eyes to give a sign to someone in the crowd. K. smiled and said, “And now the judge, right next to me, is giving a secret sign to someone among you. There seems to be someone among you who is taking directions from above. I don’t know whether the sign is meant to produce booing or applause, but I’ll resist trying to guess what its meaning is too soon. It really doesn’t matter to me, and I give his lordship the judge my full and public permission to stop giving secret signs to his paid subordinate down there and give his orders in words instead; let him just say “Boo now!,” and then the next time “Clap now!”.
K.说到这里就停了下来，看着法官，法官什么也没说。当他这样做时，他认为自己看到法官用眼睛的动作向人群中的某人发出了信号。 K.微笑着说：“现在，我旁边的法官正在向你们当中的某个人发出一个秘密信号。你们中间似乎有人正在接受上面的指示。我不知道这个标志是为了引起嘘声还是掌声，但我不会过早地猜测它的含义。这对我来说真的不重要，我完全公开地允许法官大人停止向他那里受薪的下属发出秘密信号，而是用口头命令；让他说“现在嘘！”，然后下次“现在拍手！”。

Whether it was embarrassment or impatience, the judge rocked backwards and forwards on his seat. The man behind him, whom he had been talking with earlier, leant forward again, either to give him a few general words of encouragement or some specific piece of advice. Below them in the hall the people talked to each other quietly but animatedly. The two factions had earlier seemed to hold views strongly opposed to each other but now they began to intermingle, a few individuals pointed up at K., others pointed at the judge. The air in the room was fuggy and extremely oppressive, those who were standing furthest away could hardly even be seen through it. It must have been especially troublesome for those visitors who were in the gallery, as they were forced to quietly ask the participants in the assembly what exactly was happening, albeit with timid glances at the judge. The replies they received were just as quiet, and given behind the protection of a raised hand.
不知是尴尬还是不耐烦，法官在座位上前后摇晃着。先前与他交谈的身后男人再次倾身向前，要么是给他一些一般性的鼓励，要么是一些具体的建议。在他们下面的大厅里，人们安静而热烈地交谈着。两派先前似乎意见截然对立，但现在却开始混杂起来，有的人指着K.，有的人则指着法官。房间里的空气闷热无比，压抑得连站在最远的人都难以看清。对于那些在画廊里的参观者来说，这肯定是特别麻烦的，因为他们被迫悄悄地询问集会的参与者到底发生了什么，尽管他们胆怯地看了法官一眼。他们收到的答复同样安静，并且是在举手的保护下给出的。

“I have nearly finished what I have to say,” said K., and as there was no bell available he struck the desk with his fist in a way that startled the judge and his advisor and made them look up from each other. “Non of this concerns me, and I am therefore able to make a calm assessment of it, and, assuming that this so-called court is of any real importance, it will be very much to your advantage to listen to what I have to say. If you want to discuss what I say, please don’t bother to write it down until later on, I don’t have any time to waste and I’ll soon be leaving.”
“我要说的话已经快说完了，”K. 说道，由于没有铃声，他用拳头敲击桌子，这一动作吓坏了法官和他的顾问，让他们互相抬起头来。 “这一切都与我无关，因此我能够对此做出冷静的评估，并且，假设这个所谓的法庭确实具有重要意义，那么听听我必须要说的话对你来说将非常有利。说。如果你想讨论我说的话，请稍后再写下来，我没有时间可以浪费，我很快就要离开了。”

There was immediate silence, which showed how well K. was in control of the crowd. There were no shouts among them as there had been at the start, no-one even applauded, but if they weren’t already persuaded they seemed very close to it.
现场立刻鸦雀无声，这表明K.对人群的控制能力有多么好。他们之间没有像开始时那样喊叫，甚至没有人鼓掌，但如果他们还没有被说服的话，他们似乎已经非常接近了。

K was pleased at the tension among all the people there as they listened to him, a rustling rose from the silence which was more invigorating than the most ecstatic applause could have been. “There is no doubt,” he said quietly, “that there is some enormous organisation determining what is said by this court. In my case this includes my arrest and the examination taking place here today, an organisation that employs policemen who can be bribed, oafish supervisors and judges of whom nothing better can be said than that they are not as arrogant as some others. This organisation even maintains a high-level judiciary along with its train of countless servants, scribes, policemen and all the other assistance that it needs, perhaps even executioners and torturers I’m not afraid of using those words. And what, gentlemen, is the purpose of this enormous organisation? Its purpose is to arrest innocent people and wage pointless prosecutions against them which, as in my case, lead to no result. How are we to avoid those in office becoming deeply corrupt when everything is devoid of meaning? That is impossible, not even the highest judge would be able to achieve that for himself. That is why policemen try to steal the clothes off the back of those they arrest, that is why supervisors break into the homes of people they do not know, that is why innocent people are humiliated in front of crowds rather than being given a proper trial. The policemen only talked about the warehouses where they put the property of those they arrest, I would like to see these warehouses where the hard won possessions of people under arrest is left to decay, if, that is, it’s not stolen by the thieving hands of the warehouse workers.”
K对在场所有人听他演讲时的紧张气氛感到高兴，寂静中响起一阵沙沙声，这比最热烈的掌声更令人振奋。 “毫无疑问，”他平静地说，“有一个巨大的组织决定法庭的言论。就我而言，这包括我的逮捕和今天在这里进行的审查，这个组织雇用了可以受贿的警察、愚蠢的监督者和法官，对他们来说，没有什么比其他人那么傲慢更好的了。这个组织甚至维持着一个高级司法机构，以及无数仆人、抄写员、警察和它所需要的所有其他援助，甚至是刽子手和酷刑者，我不害怕使用这些词。先生们，这个庞大组织的目的是什么？其目的是逮捕无辜者并对他们进行毫无意义的起诉，就像我的情况一样，不会有任何结果。当一切都失去意义时，我们如何避免当权者陷入深度腐败？那是不可能的，就算是最高的法官也无法自己做到这一点。这就是为什么警察试图从他们逮捕的人背后偷衣服，这就是为什么监督者闯入他们不认识的人的家，这就是为什么无辜的人在人群面前受到羞辱而不是受到适当的审判。警察只谈到了他们存放被捕者财产的仓库，我想看看这些仓库，里面存放着被捕者来之不易的财产，如果不是被窃贼偷走的话，就会腐烂。仓库工人的。”

K. was interrupted by a screeching from the far end of the hall, he shaded his eyes to see that far, as the dull light of day made the smoke whitish and hard to see through. It was the washerwoman whom K. had recognised as a likely source of disturbance as soon as she had entered. It was hard to see now whether it was her fault or not. K. could only see that a man had pulled her into a corner by the door and was pressing himself against her. But it was not her who was screaming, but the man, he had opened his mouth wide and looked up at the ceiling. A small circle had formed around the two of them, the visitors near him in the gallery seemed delighted that the serious tone K. had introduced into the gathering had been disturbed in this way. K.’s first thought was to run over there, and he also thought that everyone would want to bring things back into order there or at least to make the pair leave the room, but the first row of people in from of him stayed were they were, no-one moved and no-one let K. through. On the contrary, they stood in his way, old men held out their arms in front of him and a hand from somewhere he did not have the time to turn round took hold of his collar. K., by this time, had forgotten about the pair, it seemed to him that his freedom was being limited as if his arrest was being taken seriously, and, without any thought for what he was doing, he jumped down from the podium. Now he stood face to face with the crowd. Had he judged the people properly? Had he put too much faith in the effect of his speech? Had they been putting up a pretence all the time he had been speaking, and now that he come to the end and to what must follow, were they tired of pretending? What faces they were, all around him! Dark, little eyes flickered here and there, cheeks drooped down like on drunken men, their long beards were thin and stiff, if they took hold of them it was more like they were making their hands into claws, not as if they were taking hold of their own beards. But underneath those beards and this was the real discovery made by K. there were badges of various sizes and colours shining on the collars of their coats. As far as he could see, every one of them was wearing one of these badges. All of them belonged to the same group, even though they seemed to be divided to the right and the left of him, and when he suddenly turned round he saw the same badge on the collar of the examining judge who calmly looked down at him with his hands in his lap. “So,” called out K, throwing his arms in the air as if this sudden realisation needed more room, “all of you are working for this organisation, I see now that you are all the very bunch of cheats and liars I’ve just been speaking about, you’ve all pressed yourselves in here in order to listen in and snoop on me, you gave the impression of having formed into factions, one of you even applauded me to test me out, and you wanted to learn how to trap an innocent man! Well, I hope you haven’t come here for nothing, I hope you’ve either had some fun from someone who expected you to defend his innocence or else let go of me or I’ll hit you,” shouted K. to a quivery old man who had pressed himself especially close to him “or else that you’ve actually learned something. And so I wish you good luck in your trade.” He briskly took his hat from where it lay on the edge of the table and, surrounded by a silence caused perhaps by the completeness of their surprise, pushed his way to the exit. However, the examining judge seems to have moved even more quickly than K., as he was waiting for him at the doorway. “One moment,” he said. K. stood where he was, but looked at the door with his hand already on its handle rather than at the judge. “I merely wanted to draw your attention, “ said the judge, “to something you seem not yet to be aware of: today, you have robbed yourself of the advantages that a hearing of this sort always gives to someone who is under arrest.” K. laughed towards the door. “You bunch of louts,” he called, “you can keep all your hearings as a present from me,” then opened the door and hurried down the steps. Behind him, the noise of the assembly rose as it became lively once more and probably began to discuss these events as if making a scientific study of them.
K.的声音被大厅另一端传来的尖叫声打断了，他遮住眼睛看远处，因为昏暗的光线使烟雾变得发白，难以看清。 K.一进门就认出这位洗衣女工可能是骚乱的根源。现在很难看出这是否是她的错。 K.只看到一个男人把她拉到门边的角落里，压在她身上。但尖叫的不是她，而是那个男人，他张大了嘴巴，抬头看着天花板。他们两人周围形成了一个小圈子，画廊里靠近他的参观者似乎很高兴K.在聚会中引入的严肃语气被这样扰乱了。 K.的第一个念头是跑过去，他也认为每个人都会想让那里恢复正常，或者至少让他们离开房间，但他身后的第一排人留下来了他们是，没有人移动，也没有人让K.通过。相反，他们挡住了他的去路，老人们将双臂伸到他面前，一只他来不及转身的手抓住了他的衣领。 K.此时已经忘记了这两个人，他觉得自己的自由受到了限制，就好像他的被捕受到了认真对待一样，他没有考虑自己在做什么，就从讲台上跳了下来。现在他与人群面对面站着。他对人民的判断正确吗？他是否过于相信自己演讲的效果？难道他们在他说话的整个过程中一直在装腔作势，而现在他已经讲完了接下来要发生的事情，他们是否厌倦了假装？他周围都是些什么样的面孔啊！ 漆黑的小眼睛忽闪忽闪，脸颊像醉酒的人一样耷拉下来，长长的胡须稀疏而僵硬，如果他们握住它们，更像是把手变成了爪子，而不是抓住了。他们自己的胡须。但在那些胡须下面，这才是K真正的发现。他们的外套领子上闪烁着各种大小和颜色的徽章。就他所见，他们每个人都佩戴着一枚这样的徽章。他们都属于同一组，尽管他们似乎被分成了他的左右，当他猛然回头时，他看到预审法官的衣领上有同样的徽章，预审法官平静地低头看着他。他的双手放在腿上。 “那么，”K高举双臂喊道，仿佛突然意识到需要更多空间，“你们所有人都在为这个组织工作，我现在明白你们都是我见过的骗子和骗子。”刚才说，你们都挤在这里偷听、窥探，给人一种拉帮结伙的感觉，还有人鼓掌试探我，还想知道怎么做。去陷害一个无辜的人！好吧，我希望你不是无缘无故来到这里的，我希望你要么从一个期待你捍卫自己清白的人那里得到了一些乐趣，要么放开我，否则我就打你。”K. 对着一个人喊道。颤抖的老人把自己逼得特别靠近他，“否则你真的学到了一些东西。所以我祝你生意好运。”他轻快地从桌子边缘拿起帽子，周围一片寂静，也许是因为他们完全惊讶，他推向出口。 然而，预审法官的动作似乎比K.更快，因为他正在门口等他。 “等一下，”他说。 K.站在原地，但他的手已经放在门把手上，他看着门，而不是法官。 “我只是想提请你注意，”法官说，“一些你似乎还没有意识到的事情：今天，你剥夺了自己在此类听证会上所享有的优势，而此类听证会通常会给被捕者带来好处。 ” K.朝门口笑了。 “你们这群无赖，”他喊道，“你们可以把你们所有的听力都当作礼物送给我，”然后打开门，匆匆走下台阶。在他身后，集会的喧闹声再次响起，气氛再次热闹起来，大概是开始像科学研究一样讨论这些事件了。

Chapter Three
第三章

In the empty Courtroom The Student The Offices
空荡荡的法庭 学生 办公室

Every day over the following week, K. expected another summons to arrive, he could not believe that his rejection of any more hearings had been taken literally, and when the expected summons really had not come by Saturday evening he took it to mean that he was expected, without being told, to appear at the same place at the same time. So on Sunday, he set out once more in the same direction, going without hesitation up the steps and through the corridors; some of the people remembered him and greeted him from their doorways, but he no longer needed to ask anyone the way and soon arrived at the right door. It was opened as soon as he knocked and, paying no attention to the woman he had seen last time who was standing at the doorway, he was about to go straight into the adjoining room when she said to him “There’s no session today”. “What do you mean; no session?” he asked, unable to believe it. But the woman persuaded him by opening the door to the next room. It was indeed empty, and looked even more dismal empty than it had the previous Sunday. On the podium stood the table exactly as it had been before with a few books laying on it. “Can I have a look at those books?” asked K., not because he was especially curious but so that he would not have come for nothing. “No,” said the woman as she re-closed the door, “that’s not allowed. Those books belong to the examining judge.” “I see,” said K., and nodded, “those books must be law books, and that’s how this court does things, not only to try people who are innocent but even to try them without letting them know what’s going on.” “I expect you’re right,” said the woman, who had not understood exactly what he meant. “I’d better go away again, then,” said K. “Should I give a message to the examining judge?” asked the woman. “Do you know him, then?” asked K. “Of course I know him,” said the woman, “my husband is the court usher.” It was only now that K. noticed that the room, which before had held nothing but a wash-tub, had been fitted out as a living room. The woman saw how surprised he was and said, “Yes, we’re allowed to live here as we like, only we have to clear the room out when the court’s in session. There’s lots of disadvantages to my husband’s job.” “It’s not so much the room that surprises me,” said K., looking at her crossly, “it’s your being married that shocks me.” “Are you thinking about what happened last time the court was in session, when I disturbed what you were saying?” asked the woman. “Of course,” said K., “it’s in the past now and I’ve nearly forgotten about it, but at the time it made me furious. And now you tell me yourself that you are a married woman.” “It wasn’t any disadvantage for you to have your speech interrupted. The way they talked about you after you’d gone was really bad.” “That could well be,” said K., turning away, “but it does not excuse you.” “There’s no-one I know who’d hold it against me,” said the woman. “Him, who put his arms around me, he’s been chasing after me for a long time. I might not be very attractive for most people, but I am for him. I’ve got no protection from him, even my husband has had to get used to it; if he wants to keep his job he’s got to put up with it as that man’s a student and he’ll almost certainly be very powerful later on. He’s always after me, he’d only just left when you arrived.” “That fits in with everything else,” said K., “I’m not surprised.” “Do you want to make things a bit better here?” the woman asked slowly, watching him as if she were saying something that could be as dangerous for K. as for herself. “That’s what I thought when I heard you speak, I really liked what you said. Mind you, I only heard part of it, I missed the beginning of it and at the end I was lying on the floor with the student. it’s so horrible here,” she said after a pause, and took hold of K.’s hand. “Do you believe you really will be able to make things better?” K. smiled and twisted his hand round a little in her soft hands. “It’s really not my job to make things better here, as you put it,” he said, “and if you said that to the examining judge he would laugh at you or punish you for it. I really would not have become involved in this matter if I could have helped it, and I would have lost no sleep worrying about how this court needs to be made better. But because I’m told that I have been arrested and I am under arrest it forces me to take some action, and to do so for my own sake. However, if I can be of some service to you in the process I will, of course, be glad to do so. And I will be glad to do so not only for the sake of charity but also because you can be of some help to me.” “How could I help you, then?” said the woman. “You could, for example, show me the books on the table there.” “Yes, certainly,” the woman cried, and pulled K. along behind her as she rushed to them. The books were old and well worn, the cover of one of them had nearly broken through in its middle, and it was held together with a few threads. “Everything is so dirty here,” said K., shaking his head, and before he could pick the books up the woman wiped some of the dust off with her apron. K. took hold of the book that lay on top and threw it open, an indecent picture appeared. A man and a woman sat naked on a sofa, the base intent of whoever drew it was easy to see but he had been so grossly lacking in skill that all that anyone could really make out were the man and the woman who dominated the picture with their bodies, sitting in overly upright postures that created a false perspective and made it difficult for them to approach each other. K. didn’t thumb through that book any more, but just threw open the next one at its title page, it was a novel with the title, What Grete Suffered from her Husband, Hans. “So this is the sort of law book they study here,” said K., “this is the sort of person sitting in judgement over me.” “I can help you,” said the woman, “would you like me to?” “Could you really do that without placing yourself in danger? You did say earlier on that your husband is wholly dependent on his superiors.” “I still want to help you,” said the woman, “come over here, we’ve got to talk about it. Don’t say any more about what danger I’m in, I only fear danger where I want to fear it. Come over here.” She pointed to the podium and invited him to sit down on the step with her. “You’ve got lovely dark eyes,” she said after they had sat down, looking up into K.’s face, “people say I’ve got nice eyes too, but yours are much nicer. It was the first thing I noticed when you first came here. That’s even why I came in here, into the assembly room, afterwards, I’d never normally do that, I’m not really even allowed to.” So that’s what all this is about, thought K., she’s offering herself to me, she’s as degenerate as everything else around here, she’s had enough of the court officials, which is understandable I suppose, and so she approaches any stranger and makes compliments about his eyes. With that, K. stood up in silence as if he had spoken his thoughts out loud and thus explained his action to the woman. “I don’t think you can be of any assistance to me,” he said, “to be of any real assistance you would need to be in contact with high officials. But I’m sure you only know the lower employees, and there are crowds of them milling about here. I’m sure you’re very familiar with them and could achieve a great deal through them, I’ve no doubt of that, but the most that could be done through them would have no bearing at all on the final outcome of the trial. You, on the other hand, would lose some of your friends as a result, and I have no wish of that. Carry on with these people in the same way as you have been, as it does seem to me to be something you cannot do without. I have no regrets in saying this as, in return for your compliment to me, I also find you rather attractive, especially when you look at me as sadly as you are now, although you really have no reason to do so. You belong to the people I have to combat, and you’re very comfortable among them, you’re even in love with the student, or if you don’t love him you do at least prefer him to your husband. It’s easy to see that from what you’ve been saying.” “No!” she shouted, remained sitting where she was and grasped K.’s hand, which he failed to pull away fast enough. “You can’t go away now, you can’t go away when you’ve misjudged me like that! Are you really capable of going away now? Am I really so worthless that you won’t even do me the favour of staying a little bit longer?” “You misunderstand me,” said K., sitting back down, “if it’s really important to you for me to stay here then I’ll be glad to do so, I have plenty of time, I came here thinking there would be a trial taking place. All I meant with what I said just now was to ask you not to do anything on my behalf in the proceedings against me. But even that is nothing for you to worry about when you consider that there’s nothing hanging on the outcome of this trial, and that, whatever the verdict, I will just laugh at it. And that’s even presupposing it ever even reaches any conclusion, which I very much doubt. I think it’s much more likely that the court officials will be too lazy, too forgetful, or even to fearful ever to continue with these proceedings and that they will soon be abandoned if they haven’t been abandoned already. It’s even possible that they will pretend to be carrying on with the trial in the hope of receiving a large bribe, although I can tell you now that that will be quite in vain as I pay bribes to no-one. Perhaps one favour you could do me would be to tell the examining judge, or anyone else who likes to spread important news, that I will never be induced to pay any sort of bribe through any stratagem of theirs and I’m sure they have many stratagems at their disposal. There is no prospect of that, you can tell them that quite openly. And what’s more, I expect they have already noticed themselves, or even if they haven’t, this affair is really not so important to me as they think. Those gentlemen would only save some work for themselves, or at least some unpleasantness for me, which, however, I am glad to endure if I know that each piece of unpleasantness for me is a blow against them. And I will make quite sure it is a blow against them. Do you actually know the judge?” “Course I do,” said the woman, “he was the first one I thought of when I offered to help you. I didn’t know he’s only a minor official, but if you say so it must be true. Mind you, I still think the report he gives to his superiors must have some influence. And he writes so many reports. You say these officials are lazy, but they’re certainly not all lazy, especially this examining judge, he writes ever such a lot. Last Sunday, for instance, that session went on till the evening. Everyone had gone, but the examining judge, he stayed in the hall, I had to bring him a lamp in, all I had was a little kitchen lamp but he was very satisfied with it and started to write straight away. Meantime my husband arrived, he always has the day off on Sundays, we got the furniture back in and got our room sorted out and then a few of the neighbours came, we sat and talked for a bit by a candle, in short, we forgot all about the examining judge and went to bed. All of a sudden in the night, it must have been quite late in the night, I wakes up, next to the bed, there’s the examining judge shading the lamp with his hand so that there’s no light from it falls on my husband, he didn’t need to be as careful as that, the way my husband sleeps the light wouldn’t have woken him up anyway. I was quite shocked and nearly screamed, but the judge was very friendly, warned me I should be careful, he whispered to me he’s been writing all this time, and now he’s brought me the lamp back, and he’ll never forget how I looked when he found me there asleep. What I mean, with all this, I just wanted to tell you how the examining judge really does write lots of reports, especially about you as questioning you was definitely one of the main things on the agenda that Sunday. If he writes reports as long as that they must be of some importance. And besides all that, you can see from what happened that the examining judge is after me, and it’s right now, when he’s first begun to notice me, that I can have a lot of influence on him. And I’ve got other proof I mean a lot to him, too. Yesterday, he sent that student to me, the one he really trusts and who he works with, he sent him with a present for me, silk stockings. He said it was because I clear up in the courtroom but that’s only a pretence, that job’s no more than what I’m supposed to do, it’s what my husband gets paid for. Nice stockings, they are, look,” she stretched out her leg, drew her skirt up to her knee and looked, herself, at the stocking “they are nice stockings, but they’re too good for me, really.”
在接下来的一周里，K. 每天都期待着另一次传票的到来，他不敢相信他对任何听证会的拒绝都被从字面上理解了，当预期的传票到周六晚上确实没有到来时，他认为这意味着他人们预计，在没有被告知的情况下，他会在同一时间出现在同一地点。于是周日，他再次朝同一个方向出发，毫不犹豫地走上台阶，穿过走廊。有些人记得他，在门口迎接他，但他不再需要向任何人问路，很快就到了正确的门口。他一敲门，门就开了，他没有理会站在门口的上次见到的那个女人，正要径直走进隔壁房间，她却对他说：“今天没有课”。 “你是什么意思;没有会议吗？”他难以置信地问道。但那个女人打开了隔壁房间的门，说服了他。确实空荡荡的，而且看上去比前一个周日更加空荡荡。讲台上的桌子和以前一模一样，上面放着几本书。 “我可以看一下那些书吗？” K问道，并不是因为他特别好奇，而是为了让他不会无缘无故地来。 “不，”女人重新关上门时说道，“这是不允许的。这些书属于预审法官。” “我明白了，”K说，点点头，“那些书一定是法律书，这就是这个法庭的行事方式，不仅审判无辜的人，甚至在不让他们知道发生了什么事的情况下审判他们。” “我想你是对的，”女人说道，她并没有完全明白他的意思。 “那我最好还是走开，”K说，“我应该给预审法官捎个口信吗？”女人问道。 “那你认识他吗？” “我当然认识他，”女人说，“我丈夫是法庭引座员。” K.直到现在才注意到，原来除了一个洗衣盆什么都没有的房间，现在已经被装修成了客厅。女人见他惊讶的样子，就说道：“是的，我们想住就住在这里，只是开庭的时候要把房间清理干净。”我丈夫的工作有很多缺点。” “让我惊讶的并不是这个房间，”K. 生气地看着她说，“让我震惊的是你结婚了。” “你有没有想过，上次开庭的时候，我打扰了你说话，是怎么回事？”女人问道。 “当然，”K. 说，“现在已经过去了，我几乎已经忘记了，但当时这让我很愤怒。现在你亲口告诉我你是一个已婚女人了。” “讲话被打断对你来说并没有什么坏处。你走后他们谈论你的方式真的很糟糕。” “很可能是这样，”K说，转身走开，“但这并不能原谅你。” “据我所知，没有人会反对我，”这位女士说。 “那个搂着我的人，已经追我很久了。对于大多数人来说，我可能不太有吸引力，但对于他来说，我很有吸引力。我得不到他的保护，就连我的丈夫也不得不习惯；如果他想保住工作，他就必须忍受，因为那个人是一名学生，而且他以后几乎肯定会变得非常强大。他一直在追赶我，你来的时候他才离开。” “这与其他一切都相符，”K. 说，“我并不感到惊讶。” “你想让这里的事情变得更好一点吗？”女人慢慢地问道，看着他，仿佛她正在说一些对K.和她自己一样危险的事情。 “当我听到你说话时，我就是这么想的，我真的很喜欢你说的话。请注意，我只听到了一部分，我错过了它的开头，最后我和那个学生一起躺在地板上。这里太可怕了，”她停顿了一下说道，然后握住了 K. 的手。 “你相信你真的能让事情变得更好吗？” K.微笑着，在她柔软的手中稍微扭动了一下自己的手。 “正如你所说，让事情变得更好确实不是我的工作，”他说，“如果你对预审法官这么说，他会嘲笑你或惩罚你。如果我能帮忙的话，我真的不会卷入这件事，而且我会彻夜不眠地担心这个法庭需要如何变得更好。但因为我被告知我已经被捕，而且我正在被捕，这迫使我采取一些行动，而且是为了我自己而这样做。但是，如果我能在此过程中为您提供一些服务，我当然会很乐意这样做。我很乐意这样做，不仅是为了慈善事业，还因为你能为我提供一些帮助。” “那我能帮你什么忙呢？”女人说。 “例如，你可以给我看看桌子上的书。” “是的，当然，”女人喊道，一边把K.拉到身后，一边冲向他们。这些书又旧又旧，其中一本的封面中间几乎裂开了，是用几根线缝在一起的。 “这里的一切都很脏，”K.摇着头说，在他把书捡起来之前，那个女人用围裙擦掉了一些灰尘。 K.抓起上面的书，将其打开，一张不雅的图片出现了。 沙发上坐着一男一女，画者的卑鄙意图很容易看出，但他的技巧实在是太缺乏了，以至于任何人都只能看出画面中主宰画面的男人和女人。他们的身体坐姿过于直立，造成了错误的视角，使他们难以接近彼此。 K.没有再翻那本书，只是翻开扉页上的下一本，那是一本小说，书名是《格蕾特从丈夫汉斯那里受的苦》。 “这就是他们在这里学习的法律书籍，”K. 说，“这就是对我进行评判的人。” “我可以帮你，”女人说，“你愿意吗？” “你真的可以在不让自己陷入危险的情况下做到这一点吗？你刚才确实说过，你丈夫完全依赖他的上级。” “我还是想帮你，”女人说道，“你过来一下，我们得谈谈。别再说我遇到了什么危险，我只害怕我想害怕的危险。到这里来吧。”她指着讲台，邀请他和她一起坐在台阶上。 “你有一双可爱的黑眼睛，”他们坐下后，她抬头看着 K. 的脸说道，“人们都说我也有一双漂亮的眼睛，但你的眼睛更好看。这是你第一次来到这里时我注意到的第一件事。这就是为什么我来到这里，进入会议室，之后，我通常不会这样做，我什至不被允许这样做。”所以这就是所有这一切的意义，K想，她正在向我献身，她和这里的其他一切一样堕落，她已经受够了法庭官员，我想这是可以理解的，所以她接近任何陌生人并表示恭维关于他的眼睛。就这样，K. 他默默地站了起来，仿佛大声说出了自己的想法，从而向女人解释了自己的举动。 “我认为你无法为我提供任何帮助，”他说，“与高级官员接触时需要提供任何真正的帮助。但我相信你只认识下层员工，而且这里有一大群人在闲逛。我相信你对它们非常熟悉，并且可以通过它们取得很大的成果，对此我毫不怀疑，但是通过它们所能完成的大部分工作对审判的最终结果没有任何影响。另一方面，你会因此失去一些朋友，我不希望这样。像你以前一样继续与这些人相处，因为在我看来，这确实是你离不开的东西。我不后悔这样说，因为作为对你对我的夸奖的回报，我也觉得你很有魅力，尤其是当你像现在这样悲伤地看着我的时候，虽然你确实没有理由这样做。你属于我必须与之战斗的人，你在他们中间很舒服，你甚至爱上了那个学生，或者如果你不爱他，你至少更喜欢他而不是你的丈夫。从你所说的内容中很容易看出这一点。” “不！”她喊道，仍然坐在原地，握住K的手，但他没能足够快地抽开。 “你现在不能走，既然你这样误判了我，你就不能走！你现在真的有能力走开吗？我真的就这么没用吗，你连多待一会儿都不肯帮我吗？” “你误会了我的意思，”K. 说着又坐下来，“如果我留在这里对你来说真的很重要，那么我会很高兴这样做，我有足够的时间，我来这里的时候以为会有一个审判正在进行中。 我刚才所说的话只是希望你们在针对我的诉讼中不要为我做任何事情。但即便如此，当你考虑到这次审判的结果没有什么悬念时，你也无需担心，而且无论判决如何，我都会一笑置之。这甚至是假设它能得出任何结论，对此我非常怀疑。我认为更有可能的是，法庭官员太懒、太健忘，甚至害怕继续这些诉讼程序，如果他们还没有被放弃的话，他们很快就会被放弃。甚至有可能他们会假装继续审判，希望收到一大笔贿赂，尽管我现在可以告诉你，这将是徒劳的，因为我不会向任何人行贿。也许你可以帮我的一个忙就是告诉预审法官或任何其他喜欢传播重要消息的人，我永远不会通过他们的任何策略而被诱导进行任何形式的贿赂，我相信他们有很多他们可以使用的策略。这是不可能的，你可以相当公开地告诉他们。而且，我想他们已经注意到了自己，或者即使他们没有，这件事对我来说也确实没有他们想象的那么重要。那些先生们只会为他们自己节省一些工作，或者至少为我节省一些不愉快，但是，如果我知道我的每一次不愉快都是对他们的打击，那么我很乐意忍受。我会非常确定这对他们来说是一个打击。你真的认识法官吗？” “我当然愿意，”女人说，“当我主动提出帮助你时，我第一个想到的就是他。我不知道他只是个小官，但既然这么说，那一定是真的。 请注意，我还是认为他向上级做的报告一定有一定的影响力。他写了很多报告。你说这些官员懒，但他们肯定不都是懒，尤其是这位预审法官，他写了这么多。例如，上周日，会议一直持续到晚上。大家都走了，只有预审法官，他留在大厅里，我得给他带一盏灯进来，我只有一个厨房小灯，但他很满意，马上就开始写。与此同时，我丈夫到达了，他周日总是休息一天，我们把家具搬回来，整理了我们的房间，然后几个邻居来了，我们坐在蜡烛旁聊了一会儿，总之，我们忘记了预审法官的一切，然后上床睡觉了。突然在夜里，一定是很晚了，我醒来，床边有预审法官用手遮住灯，不让光线照到我丈夫身上，他不需要那么小心，反正我丈夫睡觉的方式，灯也不会吵醒他。我很震惊，差点尖叫起来，但法官很友好，警告我要小心，他低声对我说他一直在写，现在他把灯带回来了，他永远不会忘记我是如何写的。当他发现我在那里睡着时，他看了看。我的意思是，尽管如此，我只是想告诉你预审法官实际上是如何写出大量报告的，尤其是关于你的报告，因为对你的询问绝对是周日议程上的主要事项之一。如果他写的报告有那么长，那么它们一定具有一定的重要性。 除此之外，从发生的事情中你可以看出，预审法官正在追捕我，而现在，当他第一次开始注意到我时，我可以对他产生很大的影响。我还有其他证据证明我对他也很重要。昨天，他把那个学生送给我，他真正信任的、和他一起工作的那个学生，他给我送了一份礼物，丝袜。他说这是因为我在法庭上清理，但这只是一个借口，那份工作只不过是我应该做的，这就是我丈夫的报酬。漂亮的长袜，它们是，看，”她伸出腿，把裙子拉到膝盖上，自己看着长袜，“它们是漂亮的长袜，但它们对我来说太好了，真的。”

She suddenly interrupted herself and lay her hand on K.’s as if she wanted to calm him down, and whispered, “Be quiet, Berthold is watching us.” K. slowly looked up. In the doorway to the courtroom stood a young man, he was short, his legs were not quite straight, and he continually moved his finger round in a short, thin, red beard with which he hoped to make himself look dignified. K. looked at him with some curiosity, he was the first student he had ever met of the unfamiliar discipline of jurisprudence, face to face at least, a man who would even most likely attain high office one day. The student, in contrast, seemed to take no notice of K. at all, he merely withdrew his finger from his beard long enough to beckon to the woman and went over to the window, the woman leant over to K. and whispered, “Don’t be cross with me, please don’t, and please don’t think ill of me either, I’ve got to go to him now, to this horrible man, just look at his bent legs. But I’ll come straight back and then I’ll go with you if you’ll take me, I’ll go wherever you want, you can do whatever you like with me, I’ll be happy if I can be away from here for as long as possible, it’d be best if I could get away from here for good.” She stroked K.’s hand once more, jumped up and ran over to the window. Before he realised it, K. grasped for her hand but failed to catch it. He really was attracted to the woman, and even after thinking hard about it could find no good reason why he should not give in to her allure. It briefly crossed his mind that the woman meant to entrap him on behalf of the court, but that was an objection he had no difficulty in fending off. In what way could she entrap him? Was he not still free, so free that he could crush the entire court whenever he wanted, as least where it concerned him? Could he not have that much confidence in himself? And her offer of help sounded sincere, and maybe it wasn’t quite worthless. And maybe there was no better revenge against the examining judge and his cronies than to take this woman from him and have her for himself. Maybe then, after much hard work writing dishonest reports about K., the judge would go to the woman’s bed late one night and find it empty. And it would be empty because she belonged to K., because this woman at the window, this lush, supple, warm body in its sombre clothes of rough, heavy material belonged to him, totally to him and to him alone. Once he had settled his thoughts towards the woman in this way, he began to find the quiet conversation at the window was taking too long, he rapped on the podium with his knuckles, and then even with his fist. The student briefly looked away from the woman to glance at K. over his shoulder but did allow himself to be disturbed, in fact he even pressed himself close to the woman and put his arms around her. She dropped her head down low as if listening to him carefully, as she did so he kissed her right on the neck, hardly even interrupting what he was saying. K. saw this as confirmation of the tyranny the student held over the woman and which she had already complained about, he stood up and walked up and down the room. Glancing sideways at the student, he wondered what would be the quickest possible way to get rid of him, and so it was not unwelcome to him when the student, clearly disturbed by K.’s to-ing and fro-ing which K. had now developed into a stamping up and down, said to him, “You don’t have to stay here, you know, if you’re getting impatient. You could have gone earlier, no-one would have missed you. In fact you should have gone, you should have left as quickly as possible as soon as I got here.” This comment could have caused all possible rage to break out between them, but K. also bore in mind that this was a prospective court official speaking to a disfavoured defendant, and he might well have been taking pride in speaking in this way. K. remained standing quite close to him and said with a smile, “You’re quite right, I am impatient, but the easiest way to settle this impatience would be if you left us. On the other hand, if you’ve come here to study you are a student, I hear I’ll be quite happy to leave the room to you and go away with the woman. I’m sure you’ll still have a lot of study to do before you’re made into a judge. It’s true that I’m still not all that familiar with your branch of jurisprudence but I take it it involves a lot more than speaking roughly and I see you have no shame in doing that extremely well.” “He shouldn’t have been allowed to move about so freely,” said the student, as if he wanted to give the woman an explanation for K.’s insults, “that was a mistake. I’ve told the examining judge so. He should at least have been detained in his room between hearings. Sometimes it’s impossible to understand what the judge thinks he’s doing.” “You’re wasting your breath,” said K., then he reached his hand out towards the woman and said, “come with me.” “So that’s it,” said the student, “oh no, you’re not going to get her,” and with a strength you would not have expected from him, he glanced tenderly at her, lifted her up on one arm and, his back bent under the weight, ran with her to the door. In this way he showed, unmistakeably, that he was to some extent afraid of K., but he nonetheless dared to provoke him still further by stroking and squeezing the woman’s arm with his free hand. K. ran the few steps up to him, but when he had reached him and was about to take hold of him and, if necessary, throttle him, the woman said, “It’s no good, it’s the examining judge who’s sent for me, I daren’t go with you, this little bastard … “ and here she ran her hand over the student’s face, “this little bastard won’t let me.” “And you don’t want to be set free!” shouted K., laying his hand on the student’s shoulder, who then snapped at it with his teeth. “No!” shouted the woman, pushing K. away with both hands, “no, no don’t do that, what d’you think you’re doing!? That’d be the end of me. Let go of him, please just let go of him. He’s only carrying out the judge’s orders, he’s carrying me to him.” “Let him take you then, and I want to see nothing more of you,” said K., enraged by his disappointment and giving the student a thump in the back so that he briefly stumbled and then, glad that he had not fallen, immediately jumped up all the higher with his burden. K. followed them slowly. He realised that this was the first unambiguous setback he had suffered from these people. It was of course nothing to worry about, he accepted the setback only because he was looking for a fight. If he stayed at home and carried on with his normal life he would be a thousand times superior to these people and could get any of them out of his way just with a kick. And he imagined the most laughable scene possible as an example of this, if this contemptible student, this inflated child, this knock-kneed redbeard, if he were kneeling at Elsa’s bed wringing his hands and begging for forgiveness. K. so enjoyed imagining this scene that he decided to take the student along to Elsa with him if ever he should get the opportunity.
她突然打断了自己的话，把手放在K的身上，似乎是想让他平静下来，低声说道：“安静点，贝特霍尔德正在看着我们。” K.慢慢地抬起头。法庭门口站着一个年轻人，他身材矮小，双腿不太直，手指不断地拨动着留着又短又细的红胡子，希望能让自己显得威严。 K.有些好奇地看着他，他是他所见过的第一个陌生的法学学科的学生，至少是面对面的，一个甚至很有可能有一天会获得高级职位的人。相比之下，那个学生似乎根本没有注意到K.，他只是把手指从胡须上抽了出来，向那个女人招了招手，走到了窗边，那个女人靠在K.身上，低声说道：不要生我的气，请不要，也请不要对我产生坏看法，我现在必须去找他，去找这个可怕的男人，看看他弯曲的腿。但我会直接回来，然后我会和你一起去，如果你带我去，我会去任何你想去的地方，你可以和我做任何你喜欢做的事，如果我能离开，我会很高兴能在这儿待多久，最好能永远离开这里。”她再次抚摸K的手，跳起来，跑到窗边。 K.意识到这一点之前，抓住了她的手，但没能抓住。他确实被这个女人吸引了，即使仔细想了想，也找不到什么理由不屈服于她的诱惑。他短暂地想到，这个女人是想代表法庭来陷害他，但他毫不费力地拒绝了这个反对意见。她能用什么办法陷害他呢？ 难道他不是还很自由，自由到可以随时碾压整个朝廷，至少是与他有关的地方？难道他对自己就没有那么大的信心吗？她提出的帮助听起来很真诚，也许也不是毫无价值。也许对预审法官和他的亲信来说，最好的报复就是把这个女人从他身边夺走，据为己有。或许，经过一番艰苦的努力，撰写了有关 K. 的不诚实报告后，法官会在某个深夜走到这位女士的床边，发现床已经空了。它会是空的，因为她属于K.，因为这个窗前的女人，这个穿着粗糙、厚重材料的阴暗衣服的郁郁葱葱、柔软、温暖的身体属于他，完全属于他，而且只属于他。当他这样理清了对女人的思绪后，他开始发现窗外安静的谈话时间太长了，他用指关节敲击着讲台，然后又用拳头敲击着讲台。学生短暂地把目光从女人身上移开，回头看了一眼K，但他确实让自己受到了干扰，事实上，他甚至把自己贴近了女人，用双臂搂住了她。她低着头，仿佛在认真地听他说话，而他却亲吻了她的脖子，几乎没有打断他的话。 K. 认为这证实了学生对这位女士的专制，而她已经对此提出了抱怨，他站起来，在房间里走来走去。他斜眼看了一眼那个学生，想知道什么是摆脱他的最快方法，所以当那个学生显然被K.的来来往往打扰了时，他并没有感到不受欢迎。 现在已经发展成上下跺脚，对他说：“你知道，如果你不耐烦的话，你不必留在这里。你本来可以早点走的，没有人会想念你的。其实你应该走的，我一到你就应该尽快离开。”这个评论可能会引起他们之间爆发出各种可能的愤怒，但 K. 也记住，这是一名未来的法庭官员对一个不受欢迎的被告说话，他很可能会为以这种方式说话而感到自豪。 K.仍然站在离他很近的地方，微笑着说道：“你说得对，我很不耐烦，但解决这种不耐烦的最简单的方法就是你离开我们。另一方面，如果你是来这里学习的，你是一名学生，我听说我会很乐意把房间留给你，然后和那个女人一起走。我相信在成为法官之前你还有很多学习要做。确实，我对你们的法理学分支还不太熟悉，但我认为这不仅仅是粗暴地说话，我认为你们做得非常好，并不感到羞耻。” “他不应该被允许如此自由地走动，”学生说道，好像他想向那位女士解释K.的侮辱，“这是一个错误。我已经这样告诉预审法官了。他至少应该在听证会期间被拘留在自己的房间里。有时很难理解法官认为他在做什么。” “你这是在浪费口气，”K说，然后他向女人伸出手来，“跟我来吧。”” “原来如此，”学生说，“哦​​，不，你抓不到她的。”他用一种你意想不到的力量，温柔地看了她一眼，用一只手臂把她举了起来， ，他的背被压弯了，带着她跑向门口。通过这种方式，他毫无疑问地表明他在某种程度上害怕K.，但他仍然敢于用空着的那只手抚摸和挤压女人的手臂，进一步激怒K.。 K. 跑了几步走到他面前，但当他跑到他身边，准备抓住他，必要时掐死他时，女人说：“不行，是预审法官派来找我的，我不敢跟你走，这个小混蛋……”说到这里，她把手放在学生的脸上，“这个小混蛋不让我去。” “而且你不想被释放！” K.喊道，把手放在学生的肩膀上，然后学生用牙齿咬住了它。 “不！” “女人喊道，用双手把K.推开，“不，不，不要这样做，你以为你在做什么！？那就是我的结局了。放开他，请放开他。他只是执行法官的命令，他把我带到他身边。” “那就让他带你走吧，我不想再看到你了，”K. 说，他对自己的失望感到愤怒，并在学生的后背上重重一击，让他短暂地绊了一跤，然后庆幸自己没有摔倒，立即带着他的负担跳得更高。 K.慢慢地跟着他们。他意识到，这是他第一次受到这些人的明确打击。这当然没什么可担心的，他接受挫折只是因为他想打架。 如果他待在家里继续正常的生活，他会比这些人优越千百倍，一脚就能把他们踢开。他想象着最可笑的场景作为一个例子，如果这个可鄙的学生，这个膨胀的孩子，这个内八字的红胡子，如果他跪在艾莎的床边绞着双手乞求原谅。 K. 非常喜欢想象这个场景，因此他决定如果有机会的话，带这个学生一起去埃尔莎那里。

K. was curious to see where the woman would be taken and he hurried over to the door, the student was not likely to carry her through the streets on his arm. It turned out that the journey was far shorter. Directly opposite the flat there was a narrow flight of wooden steps which probably led up to the attic, they turned as they went so that it was not possible to see where they ended. The student carried the woman up these steps, and after the exertions of running with her he was soon groaning and moving very slowly. The woman waved down at K. and by raising and lowering her shoulders she tried to show that she was an innocent party in this abduction, although the gesture did not show a lot of regret. K. watched her without expression like a stranger, he wanted to show neither that he was disappointed nor that he would easily get over his disappointment.
K.很好奇这个女人会被带到哪里，他赶紧走到门口，这个学生不太可能挽着她穿过街道。事实证明，路程短得多。公寓正对面有一段狭窄的木台阶，可能通向阁楼，台阶一边走一边转弯，所以根本看不到尽头。学生背着女人走上台阶，费了好大劲跟她跑，很快他就发出呻吟声，动作非常缓慢。这名女子向 K. 挥手，并通过抬起和降低肩膀，试图表明她在这次绑架中是无辜的，尽管这个手势并没有表现出太多的遗憾。 K像一个陌生人一样面无表情地看着她，他既不想表现出他很失望，也不想表现出他会轻易克服这种失望。

The two of them had disappeared, but K. remained standing in the doorway. He had to accept that the woman had not only cheated him but that she had also lied to him when she said she was being taken to the examining judge. The examining judge certainly wouldn’t be sitting and waiting in the attic. The wooden stairs would explain nothing to him however long he stared at them. Then K. noticed a small piece of paper next to them, went across to it and read, in a childish and unpractised hand, “Entrance to the Court Offices”. Were the court offices here, in the attic of this tenement, then? If that was how they were accommodated it did not attract much respect, and it was some comfort for the accused to realise how little money this court had at its disposal if it had to locate its offices in a place where the tenants of the building, who were themselves among the poorest of people, would throw their unneeded junk. On the other hand, it was possible that the officials had enough money but that they squandered it on themselves rather than use it for the court’s purposes. Going by K.’s experience of them so far, that even seemed probable, except that if the court were allowed to decay in that way it would not just humiliate the accused but also give him more encouragement than if the court were simply in a state of poverty. K. also now understood that the court was ashamed to summon those it accused to the attic of this building for the initial hearing, and why it preferred to impose upon them in their own homes. What a position it was that K. found himself in, compared with the judge sitting up in the attic! K., at the bank, had a big office with an ante-room, and had an enormous window through which he could look down at the activity in the square. It was true, though, that he had no secondary income from bribes and fraud, and he couldn’t tell a servant to bring him a woman up to the office on his arm. K., however, was quite willing to do without such things, in this life at least. K. was still looking at the notice when a man came up the stairs, looked through the open door into the living room where it was also possible to see the courtroom, and finally asked K. whether he had just seen a woman there. “You’re the court usher, aren’t you?” asked K. “That’s right,” said the man, “oh, yes, you’re defendant K., I recognise you now as well. Nice to see you here.” And he offered K. his hand, which was far from what K. had expected. And when K. said nothing, he added, “There’s no court session planned for today, though.” “I know that,” said K. as he looked at the usher’s civilian coat which, beside its ordinary buttons, displayed two gilded ones as the only sign of his office and seemed to have been taken from an old army officer’s coat. “I was speaking with your wife a little while ago. She is no longer here. The student has carried her off to the examining judge.” “Listen to this,” said the usher, “they’re always carrying her away from me. It’s Sunday today, and it’s not part of my job to do any work today, but they send me off with some message which isn’t even necessary just to get me away from here. What they do is they send me off not too far away so that I can still hope to get back on time if I really hurry. So off I go running as fast as I can, shout the message through the crack in the door of the office I’ve been sent to, so out of breath they’ll hardly be able to understand it, run back here again, but the student’s been even faster than I have well he’s got less far to go, he’s only got to run down the steps. If I wasn’t so dependent on them I’d have squashed the student against the wall here a long time ago. Right here, next to the sign. I’m always dreaming of doing that. Just here, just above the floor, that’s where he’s crushed onto the wall, his arms stretched out, his fingers spread apart, his crooked legs twisted round into a circle and blood squirted out all around him. It’s only ever been a dream so far, though.” “Is there nothing else you do?” asked K. with a smile. “Nothing that I know of,” said the usher. “And it’s going to get even worse now, up till now he’s only been carrying her off for himself, now he’s started carrying her off for the judge and all, just like I’d always said he would.” “Does your wife, then, not share some of the responsibility?” asked K. He had to force himself as he asked this question, as he, too, felt so jealous now. “Course she does,” said the usher, “it’s more her fault than theirs. It was her who attached herself to him. All he did, he just chases after any woman. There’s five flats in this block alone where he’s been thrown out after working his way in there. And my wife is the best looking woman in the whole building, but it’s me who’s not even allowed to defend himself.” “If that’s how things are, then there’s nothing that can be done,” said K. “Well why not?” asked the usher. “He’s a coward that student, if he wants to lay a finger on my wife all you’d have to do is give him such a good hiding he’d never dare do it again. But I’m not allowed to do that, and nobody else is going to do me the favour as they’re all afraid of his power. The only one who could do it is a man like you.” “What, how could I do it?” asked K. in astonishment. “Well you’re facing a charge, aren’t you,” said the usher. “Yes, but that’s all the more reason for me to be afraid. Even if he has no influence on the outcome of the trial he probably has some on the initial examination.” “Yes, exactly,” said the usher, as if K.’s view had been just as correct as his own. “Only we don’t usually get any trials heard here with no hope at all.” “I am not of the same opinion”, said K., “although that ought not to prevent me from dealing with the student if the opportunity arises.” “I would be very grateful to you,” said the usher of the court, somewhat formally, not really seeming to believe that his highest wish could be fulfilled. “Perhaps,” continued K., “perhaps there are some other officials of yours here, perhaps all of them, who would deserve the same.” “Oh yes, yes,” said the usher, as if this was a matter of course. Then he looked at K. trustingly which, despite all his friendliness, he had not done until then, and added, “they’re always rebelling.” But the conversation seemed to have become a little uncomfortable for him, as he broke it off by saying, “now I have to report to the office. Would you like to come with me?” “There’s nothing for me to do there,” said K. “You’d be able to have a look at it. No-one will take any notice of you.” “Is it worth seeing then?” asked K. hesitatingly, although he felt very keen to go with him. “Well,” said the usher, “I thought you’d be interested in it.” “Alright then,” said K. finally, “I’ll come with you.” And, quicker than the usher himself, he ran up the steps.
两人已经消失了，但K.仍然站在门口。他不得不承认，那个女人不仅欺骗了他，而且当她说她将被带到预审法官那里时，她也对他撒了谎。预审法官当然不会坐在阁楼上等待。无论他盯着木楼梯看多久，木楼梯都无法向他解释任何事情。然后K.注意到他们旁边有一张小纸，走过去，用幼稚且不熟练的笔迹读到“法院办公室入口”。那么，法院办公室就在这里，在这栋公寓的阁楼里吗？如果这就是他们的住宿方式，那么它不会引起太多尊重，而且对于被告来说，如果必须将办公室设在建筑物租户所在的地方，那么它可以使用的资金是多么少，这对被告来说是一种安慰。他们本身就是最贫穷的人，他们会扔掉不需要的垃圾。另一方面，也有可能官员们有足够的钱，但他们把钱浪费在自己身上，而不是用于朝廷的目的。根据 K. 到目前为止的经历，这似乎是有可能的，只是如果允许法庭以这种方式腐朽，这不仅会羞辱被告，而且还会给他更多的鼓励，而不是法庭简单地处于一种贫困状态。 K. 现在也明白，法院羞于将被告传唤到这栋大楼的阁楼进行初步听证会，也明白了为什么法院宁愿将他们强加在他们自己的家中。与坐在阁楼上的法官相比，K. 发现自己处于何等的境地啊！ K在银行有一间带前厅的大办公室，还有一扇巨大的窗户，透过窗户他可以俯视广场上的活动。 不过，他确实没有来自贿赂和欺诈的二次收入，而且他无法让仆人将一个女人挽在他的手臂上带到办公室。然而，K. 很愿意不做这些事情，至少在这一生是这样。 K.还在看告示，这时一个男人走上楼梯，透过开着的门往客厅里看，那里也可以看到法庭，最后问K.是否刚刚在那里看到了一个女人。 “你是法庭引座员，不是吗？” “是的，”那人说，“哦，是的，你是被告K，我现在也认出了你。很高兴在这里见到你。”他向K.伸出了手，这与K.的预期相去甚远。当 K. 没有说话时，他补充道，“不过，今天没有开庭的计划。” “我知道，”K. 看着引座员的便服说道，这件外套除了普通的纽扣之外，还有两颗镀金的纽扣，这是他办公室的唯一标志，似乎是从一位旧军官的外套上取下来的。 “不久前我正在和你的妻子谈话。她已经不在这里了。那个学生把她带到了预审法官那里。” “听着，”引座员说，“他们总是把她从我身边带走。今天是星期天，今天做任何工作不是我工作的一部分，但他们给我发了一些信息，这些信息甚至不需要让我离开这里。他们所做的就是把我送到不太远的地方，这样如果我真的很赶的话，我仍然可以希望准时回来。 所以我就以最快的速度奔跑，通过我被派去的办公室的门缝大声喊出这条消息，这样他们就会气喘吁吁地听不懂，然后再跑回这里，但是这个学生比我跑得还要快，他要走的路更短了，他只需要跑下台阶就可以了。如果我不是那么依赖他们，我早就把这个学生按在墙上了。就在这里，牌子旁边。我一直梦想着这样做。就在这里，就在地板上方，他被压在墙上，双臂伸直，手指张开，弯曲的双腿扭成一圈，鲜血喷洒在他周围。不过到目前为止，这还只是一个梦想。” “你没有别的事做吗？” K.微笑着问道。 “据我所知，一无所知，”引座员说。 “现在情况会变得更糟，到目前为止，他只是为自己带走她，现在他开始为法官和其他人带走她，就像我一直说的那样。” “那么，你的妻子没有分担一些责任吗？” K问道。他必须强迫自己问这个问题，因为他现在也感到很嫉妒。 “当然是她的错，”引座员说，“这更多是她的错，而不是他们的错。是她将自己依附于他。他所做的一切，只是追逐任何一个女人。仅这个街区就有五套公寓，他在进去后就被赶了出来。我的妻子是整栋楼里最漂亮的女人，但我却连保护自己的权利都没有。” “如果事情就是这样，那就没有什么办法了，”K说，“那为什么不呢？”引座员问道。 “那个学生就是个胆小鬼，他要是想对我老婆动一根手指头，你只要把他藏得好好的，他就再也不敢这么做了。 但我不被允许这样做，而且没有其他人会帮我的忙，因为他们都害怕他的权力。能做到这一点的人只有你这样的人。” “什么，我该怎么办？” K.惊讶地问道。 “好吧，你面临指控，不是吗？”引座员说。 “是的，但这更让我害怕。即使他对审判结果没有影响，他也可能对初步审查有一些影响。” “是的，完全正确。”引座员说道，仿佛 K. 的观点和他自己的一样正确。 “只是我们通常不会在这里听到任何审判，根本没有希望。” “我不同意，”K. 说，“尽管这不应该妨碍我在有机会时与该学生打交道。” “我会非常感谢你，”法庭引座员说道，语气有些正式，似乎并不真正相信他最高的愿望能够实现。 “也许，”K.继续说，“也许这里还有你的其他一些官员，也许他们所有人都应该受到同样的待遇。” “哦，是的，是的，”引座员说道，好像这是理所当然的事。然后他满怀信任地看着K，尽管他很友善，但他直到那时才这么做，并补充道，“他们总是叛逆。”但谈话似乎让他变得有点不舒服，他中断了谈话，说道：“现在我必须到办公室报到。你想跟着我一起去吗？” “我在那里没什么可做的，”K说，“你可以看看。没有人会注意到你。” “那值得一看吗？” K. 犹豫着问道，尽管他很想和他一起去。 “好吧，”引座员说，“我以为你会对它感兴趣。” “好吧，”K 最后说道，“我跟你一起去。”他比引座员更快地跑上台阶。

At the entrance he nearly fell over, as behind the door there was another step. “They don’t show much concern for the public,” he said. “They don’t show any concern at all,” said the usher, “just look at the waiting room here.” It consisted of a long corridor from which roughly made doors led out to the separate departments of the attic. There was no direct source of light but it was not entirely dark as many of the departments, instead of solid walls, had just wooden bars reaching up to the ceiling to separate them from the corridor. The light made its way in through them, and it was also possible to see individual officials through them as they sat writing at their desks or stood up at the wooden frameworks and watched the people on the corridor through the gaps. There were only a few people in the corridor, probably because it was Sunday. They were not very impressive. They sat, equally spaced, on two rows of long wooden benches which had been placed along both sides of the corridor. All of them were carelessly dressed although the expressions on their faces, their bearing, the style of their beards and many details which were hard to identify showed that they belonged to the upper classes. There were no coat hooks for them to use, and so they had placed their hats under the bench, each probably having followed the example of the others. When those who were sitting nearest the door saw K. and the usher of the court they stood up to greet them, and when the others saw that, they also thought they had to greet them, so that as the two of them went by all the people there stood up. None of them stood properly upright, their backs were bowed, their knees bent, they stood like beggars on the street. K. waited for the usher, who was following just behind him. “They must all be very dispirited,” he said. “Yes,” said the usher, “they are the accused, everyone you see here has been accused.” “Really!” said K. “They’re colleagues of mine then.” And he turned to the nearest one, a tall, thin man with hair that was nearly grey. “What is it you are waiting for here?” asked K., politely, but the man was startled at being spoken to unexpectedly, which was all the more pitiful to see because the man clearly had some experience of the world and elsewhere would certainly have been able to show his superiority and would not have easily given up the advantage he had acquired. Here, though, he did not know what answer to give to such a simple question and looked round at the others as if they were under some obligation to help him, and as if no-one could expect any answer from him without this help. Then the usher of the court stepped forward to him and, in order to calm him down and raise his spirits, said, “The gentleman here’s only asking what it is you’re waiting for. You can give him an answer.” The voice of the usher was probably familiar to him, and had a better effect than K.’s. “I’m … I’m waiting …” he began, and then came to a halt. He had clearly chosen this beginning so that he could give a precise answer to the question, but now he didn’t know how to continue. Some of the others waiting had come closer and stood round the group, the usher of the court said to them, “Get out the way, keep the gangway free.” They moved back slightly, but not as far as where they had been sitting before. In the meantime, the man whom K. had first approached had pulled himself together and even answered him with a smile. “A month ago I made some applications for evidence to be heard in my case, and I’m waiting for it to be settled.” “You certainly seem to be going to a lot of effort,” said K. “Yes,” said the man, “it is my affair after all.” “Not everyone thinks the same way as you do,” said K. “I’ve been indicted as well but I swear on my soul that I’ve neither submitted evidence nor done anything else of the sort. Do you really think that’s necessary?” “I don’t really know, exactly,” said the man, once more totally unsure of himself; he clearly thought K. was joking with him and therefore probably thought it best to repeat his earlier answer in order to avoid making any new mistakes. With K. looking at him impatiently, he just said, “as far as I’m concerned, I’ve applied to have this evidence heard.” “Perhaps you don’t believe I’ve been indicted?” asked K. “Oh, please, I certainly do,” said the man, stepping slightly to one side, but there was more anxiety in his answer than belief. “You don’t believe me then?” asked K., and took hold of his arm, unconsciously prompted by the man’s humble demeanour, and as if he wanted to force him to believe him. But he did not want to hurt the man and had only taken hold of him very lightly. Nonetheless, the man cried out as if K. had grasped him not with two fingers but with red hot tongs. Shouting in this ridiculous way finally made K. tired of him, if he didn’t believe he was indicted then so much the better; maybe he even thought K. was a judge. And before leaving, he held him a lot harder, shoved him back onto the bench and walked on. “These defendants are so sensitive, most of them,” said the usher of the court. Almost all of those who had been waiting had now assembled around the man who, by now, had stopped shouted and they seemed to be asking him lots of precise questions about the incident. K. was approached by a security guard, identifiable mainly by his sword, of which the scabbard seemed to be made of aluminium. This greatly surprised K., and he reached out for it with his hand. The guard had come because of the shouting and asked what had been happening. The usher of the court said a few words to try and calm him down but the guard explained that he had to look into it himself, saluted, and hurried on, walking with very short steps, probably because of gout.
到了门口，他差点摔倒，因为门后还有一个台阶。 “他们不太关心公众，”他说。 “他们一点也不关心，”引座员说，“看看这里的候诊室就知道了。”它由一条长长的走廊组成，从走廊上粗制滥造的门通向阁楼的各个部分。没有直接的光源，但也不是完全黑暗，因为许多部门没有坚固的墙壁，只有直达天花板的木条将它们与走廊隔开。光线透过它们照进来，透过它们还可以看到个别官员坐在办公桌前写字，或者站在木架上透过缝隙观察走廊上的人们。走廊里只有几个人，可能是因为是周日的缘故。他们并不令人印象深刻。他们等距离地坐在走廊两侧摆放的两排长木凳上。他们个个衣着随意，但从表情、举止、胡须的样式以及许多难以辨认的细节来看，他们属于上流社会。没有衣帽钩可供他们使用，所以他们把帽子放在了长凳下面，可能每个人都效仿了其他人。坐在最靠近门口的人看到K和法庭引座员就站起来打招呼，而其他人看到这一幕，也以为自己必须打招呼，所以当他们两个经过的时候，所有人都站了起来。那里的人站了起来。他们没有一个站得笔直，弓着背，弯着膝盖，像街上的乞丐一样站着。 K. 等待着跟在他身后的引座员。 “他们一定都很沮丧，”他说。 “是的，”引座员说，“他们是被告，你在这里看到的每个人都被指控了。” “真的吗！” K说，“那么他们就是我的同事了。”他转向最近的一个人，一个又高又瘦的男人，头发几乎全白了。 “你还在这里等什么？” “K.”礼貌地问道，但那人被意外地搭话而吓了一跳，这更可怜，因为那人显然对这个世界有一定的经验，在其他地方肯定能够表现出他的优越性，而不会轻易就放弃了自己已经取得的优势。然而，在这里，他不知道如何回答这样一个简单的问题，他环顾四周，好像他们有义务帮助他，而且如果没有他的帮助，没有人能指望他给出任何答案。随后，法庭的引座走到他面前，为了让他平静下来，打起精神，说道：“这位先生只是问你在等什么。你可以给他一个答复。”引座员的声音他可能很熟悉，而且比K的效果更好。 “我……我在等……”他开口说道，然后停了下来。他之所以选择这样的开头，显然是为了能够准确地回答这个问题，但现在他却不知道该如何继续下去了。其他一些等待的人走近了，站在这群人周围，法庭的引座员对他们说：“让开，保持舷梯畅通。”他们稍微向后退了一步，但没有回到之前坐的位置。与此同时，K.最先走近的那个人也恢复了平静，甚至还微笑着回应了他。 “一个月前，我提出了一些申请，要求在我的案件中听取证据，我正在等待解决。” “看来你确实付出了很大的努力，” K 说。 “是的，”那人说，“毕竟这是我的事。 “并不是每个人的想法都和你一样，”K 说，“我也被起诉了，但我以灵魂发誓，我既没有提交证据，也没有做过任何其他类似的事情。你真的觉得有必要吗？” “我真的不知道，确切地说，”那人说道，再次对自己完全没有信心。他显然认为 K. 在跟他开玩笑，因此可能认为最好重复他之前的回答，以避免犯任何新的错误。 K.不耐烦地看着他，他只是说：“就我而言，我已经申请听取这个证据了。” “也许你不相信我被起诉了？” K问道。“哦，拜托，我当然愿意，”那人说，稍微向一侧迈了一步，但他的回答中更多的是焦虑而不是信仰。 “那你不相信我吗？” K.问，并抓住了他的手臂，被这个男人谦逊的举止无意识地推动，似乎想强迫他相信他。但他并不想伤害这个人，只是轻轻地握住了他。尽管如此，那个男人还是大叫起来，好像K.不是用两根手指而是用烧红的钳子抓住了他。这种可笑的叫喊终于让K.厌倦了，如果他不相信自己被起诉的话那就更好了；也许他甚至认为K.是一名法官。临走前，他把他抱得更紧了，把他推回长凳上，然后继续走。 “这些被告中的大多数都非常敏感，”法庭引座员说。几乎所有等待的人现在都聚集到了那个已经停止喊叫的男人周围，他们似乎在问他很多关于这件事的确切问题。 K. 一名保安走近，主要通过他的剑来识别，剑鞘似乎是铝制的。这让K大吃一惊，他伸手去拿。警卫因喊叫而过来询问发生了什么事。法庭的引座员说了几句话试图让他平静下来，但警卫解释说他必须亲自查看一下，行了礼，然后匆匆向前走，脚步很短，可能是因为痛风。

K. didn’t concern himself long with the guard or these people, especially as he saw a turning off the corridor, about half way along it on the right hand side, where there was no door to stop him going that way. He asked the usher whether that was the right way to go, the usher nodded, and that is the way that K. went. The usher remained always one or two steps behind K, which he found irritating as in a place like this it could give the impression that he was being driven along by someone who had arrested him, so he frequently waited for the usher to catch up, but the usher always remained behind him. In order to put an end to his discomfort, K. finally said, “Now that I’ve seen what it looks like here, I’d like to go.” “You haven’t seen everything yet,” said the usher ingenuously. “I don’t want to see everything,” said K., who was also feeling very tired, “I want to go, what is the way to the exit?” “You haven’t got lost, have you?” asked the usher in amazement, “you go down this way to the corner, then right down the corridor straight ahead as far as the door.” “Come with me,” said K., “show me the way, I’ll miss it, there are so many different ways here.” “It’s the only way there is,” said the usher, who had now started to sound quite reproachful, “I can’t go back with you again, I’ve got to hand in my report, and I’ve already lost a lot of time because of you as it is.” “Come with me!” K. repeated, now somewhat sharper as if he had finally caught the usher out in a lie. “Don’t shout like that,” whispered the usher, “there’s offices all round us here. If you don’t want to go back by yourself come on a bit further with me or else wait here till I’ve sorted out my report, then I’ll be glad to go back with you again.” “No, no,” said K., “I will not wait and you must come with me now.” K. had still not looked round at anything at all in the room where he found himself, and it was only when one of the many wooden doors all around him opened that he noticed it. A young woman, probably summoned by the loudness of K.’s voice, entered and asked, “What is it the gentleman wants?” In the darkness behind her there was also a man approaching. K. looked at the usher. He had, after all, said that no-one would take any notice of K., and now there were two people coming, it only needed a few and everyone in the office would become aware of him and asking for explanations as to why he was there. The only understandable and acceptable thing to say was that he was accused of something and wanted to know the date of his next hearing, but this was an explanation he did not want to give, especially as it was not true he had only come out of curiosity. Or else, an explanation even less usable, he could say that he wanted to ascertain that the court was as revolting on the inside as it was on the outside. And it did seem that he had been quite right in this supposition, he had no wish to intrude any deeper, he was disturbed enough by what he had seen already, he was not in the right frame of mind just then to face a high official such as might appear from behind any door, and he wanted to go, either with the usher of the court or, if needs be, alone.
K.并没有太关心警卫或这些人，特别是当他看到走廊的拐弯处，大约在右手边的一半处，那里没有门阻止他走那条路。他问引座员这条路是否正确，引座员点点头，K. 就是这样走的。引座员总是落后K一两步，这让他很恼火，因为在这种地方，他会让人觉得他是被逮捕他的人赶着走的，所以他经常等待引座员追上来，但引座员始终留在他身后。为了结束心中的不适，K.最后说道：“既然我已经看到这里的样子了，我想去吧。” “你还没有看完全部。”引座员直率地说。 “我什么都不想看，”K也感觉很累，“我想去，出口怎么走？” “你没有迷路吧？”引座员惊讶地问道：“你沿着这条路走到拐角处，然后沿着走廊一直走到门口。” “跟我来吧，”K 说，“给我带路，我会想念它的，这里有很多不同的路。” “这是唯一的办法了，”引座员说道，他的语气现在开始变得颇为责备，“我不能再和你回去了，我必须交报告，而且我已经丢了一个。”很多时间都是因为你。” “跟我来！” K.重复道，语气变得更加尖锐，仿佛他终于识破了引座员的谎言。 “别这么喊，”引座员低声说道，“我们周围都是办公室。如果你不想自己回去的话，就跟我走远一点，或者就在这里等我把报告整理好，我很乐意再跟你回去。” “不，不，”K说。，“我不会等，你现在就必须跟我来。” K.仍然没有环视他所在的房间里的任何东西，直到他周围的许多木门中的一扇打开时，他才注意到。一位年轻女子可能是被K的响亮声音召唤了，进来问道：“这位先生想要什么？”在她身后的黑暗中，也有一个男人正在靠近。 K.看着引座员。毕竟他说过不会有人注意到K的，现在来了两个人，只需要几个人，办公室里的每个人都会注意到他，并要求解释为什么他会这么做。在那里。唯一可以理解和接受的说法是，他被指控了某件事，并想知道下次听证会的日期，但这是他不想给出的解释，特别是因为这不是事实，他只是从好奇心。或者，更不可用的解释是，他可以说他想确定法院的内部和外部一样令人反感。看来他的这个假设是完全正确的，他不想再深入，他已经被他所看到的事情弄得够不安了，他此时的心情并不适合面对一位高官。任何一扇门后面都可能出现这样的情况，他想去，要么在法庭的引座员的陪同下，要么，如果需要的话，独自一人。

But he must have seemed very odd standing there in silence, and the young woman and the usher were indeed looking at him as if they thought he would go through some major metamorphosis any second which they didn’t want to miss seeing. And in the doorway stood the man whom K. had noticed in the background earlier, he held firmly on to the beam above the low door swinging a little on the tips of his feet as if becoming impatient as he watched. But the young woman was the first to recognise that K.’s behaviour was caused by his feeling slightly unwell, she brought a chair and asked, “Would you not like to sit down?” K. sat down immediately and, in order to keep his place better, put his elbows on the armrests. “You’re a little bit dizzy, aren’t you?” she asked him. Her face was now close in front of him, it bore the severe expression that many young women have just when they’re in the bloom of their youth. “It’s nothing for you to worry about,” she said, “that’s nothing unusual here, almost everyone gets an attack like that the first time they come here. This is your first time is it? Yes, it’s nothing unusual then. The sun burns down on the roof and the hot wood makes the air so thick and heavy. It makes this place rather unsuitable for offices, whatever other advantages it might offer. But the air is almost impossible to breathe on days when there’s a lot of business, and that’s almost every day. And when you think that there’s a lot of washing put out to dry here as well and we can’t stop the tenants doing that it’s not surprising you started to feel unwell. But you get used to the air alright in the end. When you’re here for the second or third time you’ll hardly notice how oppressive the air is. Are you feeling any better now?” K. made no answer, he felt too embarrassed at being put at the mercy of these people by his sudden weakness, and learning the reason for feeling ill made him feel not better but a little worse. The girl noticed it straight away, and to make the air fresher for K., she took a window pole that was leaning against the wall and pushed open a small hatch directly above K.’s head that led to the outside. But so much soot fell in that the girl had to immediately close the hatch again and clean the soot off K.’s hands with her handkerchief, as K. was too tired to do that for himself. He would have liked just to sit quietly where he was until he had enough strength to leave, and the less fuss people made about him the sooner that would be. But then the girl said, “You can’t stay here, we’re in people’s way here …” K. looked at her as if to ask whose way they were impeding. “If you like, I can take you to the sick room,” and turning to the man in the doorway said, “please help me”. The man immediately came over to them, but K. did not want to go to the sick room, that was just what he wanted to avoid, being led further from place to place, the further he went the more difficult it must become. So he said, “I am able to walk now,” and stood up, shaking after becoming used to sitting so comfortably. But then he was unable to stay upright. “I can’t manage it,” he said shaking his head, and sat down again with a sigh. He remembered the usher who, despite everything, would have been able to lead him out of there but who seemed to have gone long before. K. looked out between the man and the young woman who were standing in front of him but was unable to find the usher. “I think,” said the man, who was elegantly dressed and whose appearance was made especially impressive with a grey waistcoat that had two long, sharply tailored points, “the gentleman is feeling unwell because of the atmosphere here, so the best thing, and what he would most prefer, would be not to take him to the sick room but get him out of the offices altogether.” “That’s right,” exclaimed K., with such joy that he nearly interrupted what the man was saying, “I’m sure that’ll make me feel better straight away, I’m really not that weak, all I need is a little support under my arms, I won’t cause you much trouble, it’s not such a long way anyway, lead me to the door and then I’ll sit on the stairs for a while and soon recover, as I don’t suffer from attacks like this at all, I’m surprised at it myself. I also work in an office and I’m quite used to office air, but here it seems to be too strong, you’ve said so yourselves. So please, be so kind as to help me on my way a little, I’m feeling dizzy, you see, and it’ll make me ill if I stand up by myself.” And with that he raised his shoulders to make it easier for the two of them to take him by the arms.
但他静静地站在那里，看起来一定很奇怪，年轻女子和引座员确实看着他，仿佛他们认为他随时都会经历某种重大的转变，他们不想错过这一幕。门口站着K.刚才在背景中注意到的那个人，他紧紧地抓住低矮门上方的横梁，脚尖微微晃动，似乎看着不耐烦。但少妇最先看出K的行为是因为他身体有些不适，她拿来一把椅子，问道：“你不坐下吗？” K.立即坐下，为了保持更好的位置，将肘部放在扶手上。 “你有点头晕，是吗？”她问他。她的脸此时就在他的面前，带着许多少女青春年华时的严肃表情。 “你不用担心，”她说，“这里没什么不寻常的，几乎每个人第一次来这里都会受到这样的攻击。这是你第一次吧？是的，那没什么不寻常的。阳光照在屋顶上，灼热的木头让空气变得如此粘稠和沉重。无论它可能提供什么其他优势，这使得这个地方相当不适合办公室。但在业务繁忙的日子里，几乎无法呼吸空气，而且几乎每天都是如此。当你想到这里也有很多洗好的衣服晾干而我们无法阻止房客这样做时，你开始感到不适就不足为奇了。但最终你还是习惯了空气。当你第二次或第三次来到这里时，你几乎不会注意到这里的空气有多么压抑。你现在感觉好点了吗？” K. 他没有回答，因为突然的虚弱而被这些人摆布，他感到太尴尬了，而得知生病的原因后，他的感觉非但没有好转，反而更糟了。女孩立刻注意到了这一点，为了让K的空气更清新，她拿起靠在墙上的一根窗杆，推开了K正上方的一个通向外面的小舱门。但落入的烟灰太多了，女孩不得不立即再次关上舱门，并用手帕擦掉 K. 手上的烟灰，因为 K. 太累了，无法自己做这件事。他本想静静地坐在原地，直到有足够的力气离开，而人们对他的议论越少，离开的时间就越早。但随后女孩说：“你不能留在这里，我们在这里挡住了人们的路……”K.看着她，好像在问他们挡住了谁的路。 “如果你愿意，我可以带你去病房，”然后转向门口的男人说，“请帮助我”。那人立即向他们走了过来，但K.并不想去病房，那正是他想要避免的，被人从一个地方带到另一个地方，越走越困难。于是他说：“我现在能走路了。”然后站了起来，在习惯了如此舒适的坐姿后，浑身发抖。但随后他就无法保持直立了。 “我办不到。”他摇摇头，叹了口气，又坐下来。他记得那个引座员，尽管发生了一切，仍能带领他离开那里，但他似乎已经走了很久了。 K. 向站在他面前的男人和年轻女子之间望去，但找不到引座员。 “我想，”那个穿着优雅的男人说道，他穿着一件灰色马甲，有两个长长的、剪裁精良的尖点，显得格外令人印象深刻，“这位先生因为这里的气氛而感觉不舒服，所以最好的是，他最希望的，不是带他去病房，而是让他完全离开办公室。” “是啊，”K高兴得几乎打断了那人的话，说道，“我相信这会让我立刻感觉好一些，我真的没那么弱，我所需要的只是一个我腋下有一点支撑，不会给你带来太大麻烦，反正路也不远，带我到门口，然后我在楼梯上坐一会儿，很快就会恢复，因为我不痛苦竟然受到这样的攻击，我自己都感到惊讶。我也在办公室工作，很习惯办公室的空气，但这里的空气似乎太浓了，你们自己也这么说。所以请您在路上帮我一点忙，我感觉头晕，你看，如果我自己站起来的话，我会生病的。”说着，他抬起了肩膀，让两人更容易握住他的手臂。

The man, however, didn’t follow this suggestion but just stood there with his hands in his trouser pockets and laughed out loud. “There, you see,” he said to the girl, “I was quite right. The gentleman is only unwell here, and not in general.” The young woman smiled too, but lightly tapped the man’s arm with the tips of her fingers as if he had allowed himself too much fun with K. “So what do you think, then?” said the man, still laughing, “I really do want to lead the gentleman out of here.” “That’s alright, then,” said the girl, briefly inclining her charming head. “Don’t worry too much about him laughing,” said the girl to K., who had become unhappy once more and stared quietly in front of himself as if needing no further explanation. “This gentleman may I introduce you?” (the man gave his permission with a wave of the hand) “so, this gentleman’s job is to give out information. He gives all the information they need to people who are waiting, as our court and its offices are not very well known among the public he gets asked for quite a lot. He has an answer for every question, you can try him out if you feel like it. But that’s not his only distinction, his other distinction is his elegance of dress. We, that’s to say all of us who work in the offices here, we decided that the information-giver would have to be elegantly dressed as he continually has to deal with the litigants and he’s the first one they meet, so he needs to give a dignified first impression. The rest of us I’m afraid, as you can see just by looking at me, dress very badly and old-fashioned; and there’s not much point in spending much on clothes anyway, as we hardly ever leave the offices, we even sleep here. But, as I said, we decided that the information-giver would have to have nice clothes. As the management here is rather peculiar in this respect, and they would get them for us, we had a collection some of the litigants contributed too and bought him these lovely clothes and some others besides. So everything would be ready for him to give a good impression, except that he spoils it again by laughing and frightening people.” “That’s how it is,” said the man, mocking her, “but I don’t understand why it is that you’re explaining all our intimate facts to the gentleman, or rather why it is that you’re pressing them on him, as I’m sure he’s not all interested. Just look at him sitting there, it’s clear he’s occupied with his own affairs.” K. just did not feel like contradicting him.. The girl’s intention may have been good, perhaps she was under instructions to distract him or to give him the chance to collect himself, but the attempt had not worked. “I had to explain to him why you were laughing,” said the girl. “I suppose it was insulting.” “I think he would forgive even worse insults if I finally took him outside.” K. said nothing, did not even look up, he tolerated the two of them negotiating over him like an object, that was even what suited him best. But suddenly he felt the information-giver’s hand on one arm and the young woman’s hand on the other. “Up you get then, weakling,” said the information-giver. “Thank you both very much,” said K., pleasantly surprised, as he slowly rose and personally guided these unfamiliar hands to the places where he most needed support. As they approached the corridor, the girl said quietly into K.’s ear, “I must seem to think it’s very important to show the information-giver in a good light, but you shouldn’t doubt what I say, I just want to say the truth. He isn’t hard-hearted. It’s not really his job to help litigants outside if they’re unwell but he’s doing it anyway, as you can see. I don’t suppose any of us is hard-hearted, perhaps we’d all like to be helpful, but working for the court offices it’s easy for us to give the impression we are hard-hearted and don’t want to help anyone. It makes me quite sad.” “Would you not like to sit down here a while?” asked the information-giver, there were already in the corridor and just in front of the defendant whom K. had spoken to earlier. K. felt almost ashamed to be seen by him, earlier he had stood so upright in front of him and now he had to be supported by two others, his hat was held up by the information-giver balanced on outstretched fingers, his hair was dishevelled and hung down onto the sweat on his forehead. But the defendant seemed to notice nothing of what was going on and just stood there humbly, as if wanting to apologise to the information-giver for being there. The information-giver looked past him. “I know,” he said, “that my case can’t be settled today, not yet, but I’ve come in anyway, I thought, I thought I could wait here anyway, it’s Sunday today, I’ve got plenty of time, and I’m not disturbing anyone here.” “There’s no need to be so apologetic,” said the information-giver, “it’s very commendable for you to be so attentive. You are taking up space here when you don’t need to but as long as you don’t get in my way I will do nothing to stop you following the progress of your case as closely as you like. When one has seen so many people who shamefully neglect their cases one learns to show patience with people like you. Do sit down.” “He’s very good with the litigants,” whispered the girl. K. nodded, but started to move off again when the information-giver repeated, “Would you not like to sit down here a while?” “No, “said K., “I don’t want to rest.” He had said that with as decisively as he could, but in fact it would have done him a lot of good to sit down. It was as if he were suffering sea-sickness. He felt as if he were on a ship in a rough sea, as if the water were hitting against the wooden walls, a thundering from the depths of the corridor as if the torrent were crashing over it, as if the corridor were swaying and the waiting litigants on each side of it rising and sinking. It made the calmness of the girl and the man leading him all the more incomprehensible. He was at their mercy, if they let go of him he would fall like a board. Their little eyes glanced here and there, K. could feel the evenness of their steps but could not do the same, as from step to step he was virtually being carried. He finally noticed they were speaking to him but he did not understand them, all he heard was a noise that filled all the space and through which there seemed to be an unchanging higher note sounding, like a siren. “Louder,” he whispered with his head sunk low, ashamed at having to ask them to speak louder when he knew they had spoken loudly enough, even if it had been, for him, incomprehensible. At last, a draught of cool air blew in his face as if a gap had been torn out in the wall in front of him, and next to him he heard someone say, “First he says he wants to go, and then you can tell him a hundred times that this is the way out and he doesn’t move.” K. became aware that he was standing in front of the way out, and that the young woman had opened the door. It seemed to him that all his strength returned to him at once, and to get a foretaste of freedom he stepped straight on to one of the stairs and took his leave there of his companions, who bowed to him. “Thank you very much,” he repeated, shook their hands once more and did not let go until he thought he saw that they found it hard to bear the comparatively fresh air from the stairway after being so long used to the air in the offices. They were hardly able to reply, and the young woman might even have fallen over if K. had not shut the door extremely fast. K. then stood still for a while, combed his hair with the help of a pocket mirror, picked up his hat from the next stair the information-giver must have thrown it down there and then he ran down the steps so fresh and in such long leaps that the contrast with his previous state nearly frightened him. His normally sturdy state of health had never prepared him for surprises such as this. Did his body want to revolt and cause him a new trial as he was bearing the old one with such little effort? He did not quite reject the idea that he should see a doctor the next time he had the chance, but whatever he did and this was something on which he could advise himself he wanted to spend all Sunday mornings in future better than he had spent this one.
然而，男子并没有听从这个建议，而是双手插在裤兜里站在那里，哈哈大笑。 “你看，”他对女孩说，“我说得很对。先生只是这里不适，并非一般情况。”少妇也笑了，只是用指尖轻轻敲了敲男人的手臂，仿佛他和K玩得太过瘾了。“那你觉得怎么样？”那人依然笑着说道：“我真想带着这位先生离开这里。” “那就好吧。”少女微微歪着迷人的头说道。 “别太担心他笑了。”女孩对K说道，K又变得不高兴了，静静地看着前方，仿佛不需要更多的解释。 “这位先生可以介绍一下吗？” （那人摆摆手表示同意）“所以，这位先生的工作就是发布信息。他向等待的人们提供了他们需要的所有信息，因为我们的法院及其办公室在公众中并不是很出名，但他经常被询问。每个问题他都有答案，如果你愿意的话可以尝试一下。但这并不是他唯一的特点，他的另一个特点是他优雅的着装。我们，也就是说我们所有在这里办公室工作的人，我们决定信息提供者必须穿着优雅，因为他需要不断地与诉讼当事人打交道，而且他是他们第一个见到的人，所以他需要提供端庄的第一印象。恐怕我们其他人，你只要看看我就知道，穿着很糟糕而且很老式；反正在衣服上花太多钱也没有什么意义，因为我们几乎从不离开办公室，甚至睡在这里。但是，正如我所说，我们决定信息提供者必须穿着漂亮的衣服。 由于这里的管理人员在这方面相当特殊，他们会为我们提供这些衣服，所以我们也收集了一些诉讼当事人的捐款，并给他买了这些可爱的衣服和其他一些衣服。所以一切都准备好了，他可以给人留下好印象，只是他会通过笑和吓人来再次破坏它。” “事情就是这样，”男人嘲笑她，“但我不明白你为什么要向这位先生解释我们所有的私密事实，或者更确切地说，为什么你要把这些强加给他。” ，因为我确信他并不完全感兴趣。看看他坐在那里，显然他正在忙着自己的事情。” K.只是不想反驳他。女孩的意图也许是好的，也许她是受指示分散他的注意力，或者给他机会冷静下来，但这种尝试并没有奏效。 “我必须向他解释你为什么笑，”女孩说。 “我认为这是一种侮辱。” “我想，如果我最终带他出去，他会原谅更严重的侮辱。” K什么也没说，连头都没有抬，他把两个人当成一件物品一样容忍着，这才是最适合他的。但突然他感觉到信息提供者的手放在一只手臂上，而年轻女子的手放在另一只手臂上。 “那就起来吧，弱者，”信息提供者说道。 “非常感谢你们俩。”K. 惊喜地说，缓缓起身，亲自引导这些陌生的双手来到他最需要帮助的地方。当他们接近走廊时，女孩在K.的耳边轻声说道：“我似乎认为以良好的眼光展示信息提供者是非常重要的，但你不应该怀疑我所说的，我只是想说实话。他并不铁石心肠。 如果诉讼当事人身体不适，他的工作并不是去帮助他们，但他还是这么做了，正如你所看到的。我不认为我们中的任何一个人都是铁石心肠的，也许我们都想提供帮助，但是在法院办公室工作，我们很容易给人留下铁石心肠并且不想帮助任何人的印象。这让我非常难过。” “你不想在这里坐一会儿吗？”信息提供者问道，已经在走廊里，就在 K. 之前与之交谈过的被告前面。 K. 几乎为被他看见而感到羞愧，之前他还那么笔直地站在他面前，现在他必须由另外两个人扶着，他的帽子由信息提供者用伸出的手指保持平衡，他的头发是头发蓬乱，垂在额头上的汗水上。但被告似乎没有注意到发生的事情，只是谦卑地站在那里，似乎想向信息提供者道歉。提供信息的人目光越过他。 “我知道，”他说，“我的案子今天还不能解决，但无论如何我已经进来了，我想，我想我可以在这里等，今天是周日，我有很多事情要处理。”时间到了，我不会打扰这里的任何人。” “不用这么抱歉，”提供信息的人说道，“你这么细心，真是值得称赞。当你不需要的时候，你在这里占据了空间，但只要你不妨碍我，我就不会阻止你按照你的意愿密切关注你的案件的进展。当一个人看到这么多可耻地忽视自己案件的人时，你就会学会对像你这样的人表现出耐心。请坐下。” “他和当事人相处得很好。”女孩低声说道。 K. 点点头，但当信息提供者重复道：“你不想在这儿坐一会儿吗？” “不，”K 说，“我不想休息。”他尽可能果断地这么说，但实际上坐下来对他有很大好处。他好像晕船了。他感觉自己仿佛置身于波涛汹涌的大海上的一艘船上，仿佛海水拍打着木墙，走廊深处传来雷鸣般的巨响，仿佛激流冲过，仿佛走廊在摇曳，等待的诉讼当事人在它的两侧升起和下沉。这让女孩和带领他的男人的平静更加让人难以理解。他任由他们摆布，如果他们放开他，他就会像木板一样倒下。他们的小眼睛东张西望，K.能感觉到他们脚步的平稳，但又无法做到同样的程度，因为他几乎是被人一步一步地抬着走的。他终于注意到他们在对他说话，但他听不懂他们的意思，他听到的只是一种充满整个空间的噪音，其中似乎有一个不变的高音在响起，就像警报一样。 “大声点，”他低着头低声说道，当他知道他们已经大声说话时，他为自己不得不要求他们大声说话而感到羞愧，即使这对他来说是难以理解的。终于，一股凉风吹到了他的脸上，仿佛面前的墙壁被撕开了一条缝，他听到旁边有人说道：“他先说要走，然后你就可以了。”告诉他一百遍这是出路，他就是不动。” K. 意识到他正站在出口前，而那个年轻女子已经打开了门。 他觉得自己所有的力气一下子就回来了，为了预尝自由，他径直走上楼梯，向同伴们告别，同伴们向他鞠了一躬。 “非常感谢。”他重复了一遍，再次握了握他们的手，直到他认为他们已经习惯了办公室的空气太久之后，已经很难忍受楼梯上相对新鲜的空气了，才松开了手。 。他们几乎无法回答，要不是K把门关得极快，年轻女子甚至可能会摔倒。 K. 然后静静地站了一会儿，用小镜子梳理了头发，从隔壁楼梯上捡起了帽子，信息提供者一定是把它扔在那里了，然后他跑下楼梯，神采奕奕，神采飞扬。与之前的状态形成鲜明对比，他差点被吓到了。他平时健康的身体状况从来没有让他准备好面对这样的意外。难道他的身体想要反抗，让他在如此轻松地承受着旧的考验的同时，又要面临新的考验吗？他并没有完全拒绝下次有机会时应该去看医生的想法，但无论他做什么，他都可以告诉自己，他希望以后的所有周日早上都比他现在度过的更好。一。

Chapter Four
第四回

Miss Burstner’s Friend
伯斯特纳小姐的朋友

For some time after this, K. found it impossible to exchange even just a few words with Miss Burstner. He tried to reach her in many and various ways but she always found a way to avoid it. He would come straight home from the office, remain in her room without the light on, and sit on the sofa with nothing more to distract him than keeping watch on the empty hallway. If the maid went by and closed the door of the apparently empty room he would get up after a while and open it again. He got up an hour earlier than usual in the morning so that he might perhaps find Miss Burstner alone as she went to the office. But none of these efforts brought any success. Then he wrote her a letter, both to the office and the flat, attempting once more to justify his behaviour, offered to make whatever amends he could, promised never to cross whatever boundary she might set him and begged merely to have the chance to speak to her some time, especially as he was unable to do anything with Mrs. Grubach either until he had spoken with Miss Burstner, he finally informed her that the following Sunday he would stay in his room all day waiting for a sign from her that there was some hope of his request being fulfilled, or at least that she would explain to him why she could not fulfil it even though he had promised to observe whatever stipulations she might make. The letters were not returned, but there was no answer either. However, on the following Sunday there was a sign that seemed clear enough. It was still early when K. noticed, through the keyhole, that there was an unusual level of activity in the hallway which soon abated. A French teacher, although she was German and called Montag, a pale and febrile girl with a slight limp who had previously occupied a room of her own, was moving into Miss Burstner’s room. She could be seen shuffling through the hallway for several hours, there was always another piece of clothing or a blanket or a book that she had forgotten and had to be fetched specially and brought into the new home.
此后有一段时间，K.发现无法与伯斯特纳小姐交流哪怕是几句话。他尝试用多种方式接近她，但她总能找到一种方法来避免。他会直接从办公室回到家，留在她的房间里，不开灯，坐在沙发上，除了监视空荡荡的走廊外，没有什么可以分散他的注意力。如果女仆走过并关上显然空荡荡的房间的门，他会在一段时间后站起来再次打开门。早上他比平常早起一个小时，这样他也许会发现伯斯特纳小姐独自一人去办公室。但这些努力都没有取得任何成功。然后他给她写了一封信，既写给办公室又写给公寓，再次试图为自己的行为辩护，提出尽一切可能做出弥补，承诺永远不会跨越她给他设定的任何界限，并恳求她有机会说话。有一段时间，特别是在他与伯斯特纳小姐交谈之前，他也无法对格鲁巴赫太太做任何事情，他最终告诉她，下周日他将整天待在自己的房间里，等待她的信号，表明他已经离开了。她希望他的要求能够得到满足，或者至少她会向他解释为什么她不能满足他的要求，尽管他已经答应遵守她可能提出的任何规定。信没有被退回，但也没有回复。然而，在接下来的周日，出现了一个似乎足够清晰的迹象。时间还早，K. 透过钥匙孔注意到走廊里的活动异常活跃，但很快就减弱了。 一位法国老师，虽然她是德国人，名叫蒙塔格，是一个脸色苍白、发烧、有点跛行的女孩，她以前占据了自己的一个房间，现在搬进了伯斯特纳小姐的房间。人们可以看到她在走廊里拖着脚步走了几个小时，总是有一件衣服、一条毯子或一本书被她忘记了，必须专门拿来带进新家。

When Mrs. Grubach brought K. his breakfast ever since the time when she had made K. so cross she didn’t trust the maid to do the slightest job he had no choice but to speak to her, for the first time in five days. “Why is there so much noise in the hallway today?” he asked as she poured his coffee out, “Can’t something be done about it? Does this clearing out have to be done on a Sunday?” K. did not look up at Mrs. Grubach, but he saw nonetheless that she seemed to feel some relief as she breathed in. Even sharp questions like this from Mr. K. she perceived as forgiveness, or as the beginning of forgiveness. “We’re not clearing anything out, Mr. K.,” she said, “it’s just that Miss Montag is moving in with Miss Burstner and is moving her things across.” She said nothing more, but just waited to see how K. would take it and whether he would allow her to carry on speaking. But K. kept her in uncertainty, took the spoon and pensively stirred his coffee while he remained silent. Then he looked up at her and said, “What about the suspicions you had earlier about Miss Burstner, have you given them up?” “Mr. K.,” called Mrs. Grubach, who had been waiting for this very question, as she put her hands together and held them out towards him. “I just made a chance remark and you took it so badly. I didn’t have the slightest intention of offending anyone, not you or anyone else. You’ve known me for long enough, Mr. K., I’m sure you’re convinced of that. You don’t know how I’ve been suffering for the past few days! That I should tell lies about my tenants! And you, Mr. K., you believed it! And said I should give you notice! Give you notice!” At this last outcry, Mrs. Grubach was already choking back her tears, she raised her apron to her face and blubbered out loud.
自从格鲁巴赫太太给K. 送早餐以来，她让K. 非常生气，她不相信女仆会做哪怕是最轻微的工作，他别无选择，只能跟她说话，这是五天来的第一次。 “今天走廊里怎么这么吵？”当她给他倒咖啡时，他问道：“就不能采取点什么办法吗？清理工作必须在周日进行吗？” K. 没有抬头看格鲁巴赫夫人，但他看到她在吸气时似乎感到了一些轻松。即使是 K 先生提出的尖锐问题，她也认为是宽恕，或者是宽恕的开始。 “我们并没有清理任何东西，K先生，”她说，“只是蒙塔格小姐要搬去和伯斯特纳小姐住在一起，并且正在把她的东西搬过去。”她没有再说什么，只是等着看K.会如何接受，是否会允许她继续说下去。但 K. 让她感到不确定，他拿起勺子，若有所思地搅拌咖啡，而他保持沉默。然后他抬头看着她，说道：“那你之前对伯斯特纳小姐的怀疑呢，现在已经放弃了吗？” “先生。 K.，”格鲁巴赫夫人喊道，她一直在等待这个问题，她双手合十，向他伸出。 “我只是偶然说了一句话，你却觉得很糟糕。我无意冒犯任何人，不是你，也不是任何人。 K 先生，你认识我已经够久了，我相信你对此深信不疑。你不知道我这几天过得有多痛苦！我应该对我的房客撒谎！而你，K先生，你相信了！并说我应该通知你！给你通知一下！”听到这最后一声叫喊，格鲁巴赫夫人已经强忍住泪水，她把围裙举到脸上，放声大哭起来。

“Oh, don’t cry Mrs. Grubach,” said K., looking out the window, he was thinking only of Miss Burstner and how she was accepting an unknown girl into her room. “Now don’t cry,” he said again as he turned his look back into the room where Mrs. Grubach was still crying. “I meant no harm either when I said that. It was simply a misunderstanding between us. That can happen even between old friends sometimes.” Mrs. Grubach pulled her apron down to below her eyes to see whether K. really was attempting a reconciliation. “Well, yes, that’s how it is,” said K., and as Mrs. Grubach’s behaviour indicated that the captain had said nothing he dared to add, “Do you really think, then, that I’d want to make an enemy of you for the sake of a girl we hardly know?” “Yes, you’re quite right, Mr. K.,” said Mrs. Grubach, and then, to her misfortune, as soon as she felt just a little freer to speak, she added something rather inept. “I kept asking myself why it was that Mr. K. took such an interest in Miss Burstner. Why does he quarrel with me over her when he knows that any cross word from him and I can’t sleep that night? And I didn’t say anything about Miss Burstner that I hadn’t seen with my own eyes.” K. said nothing in reply, he should have chased her from the room as soon as she had opened her mouth, and he didn’t want to do that. He contented himself with merely drinking his coffee and letting Mrs. Grubach feel that she was superfluous. Outside, the dragging steps of Miss Montag could still be heard as she went from one side of the hallway to the other. “Do you hear that?” asked K. pointing his hand at the door. “Yes,” said Mrs. Grubach with a sigh, “I wanted to give her some help and I wanted the maid to help her too but she’s stubborn, she wants to move everything in herself. I wonder at Miss Burstner. I often feel it’s a burden for me to have Miss Montag as a tenant but Miss Burstner accepts her into her room with herself.” “There’s nothing there for you to worry about” said K., crushing the remains of a sugar lump in his cup. “Does she cause you any trouble?” “No,” said Mrs. Grubach, “in itself it’s very good to have her there, it makes another room free for me and I can let my nephew, the captain, occupy it. I began to worry he might be disturbing you when I had to let him live in the living room next to you over the last few days. He’s not very considerate.” “What an idea!” said K. standing up, “there’s no question of that. You seem to think that because I can’t stand this to-ing and fro-ing of Miss Montag that I’m over-sensitive and there she goes back again.” Mrs. Grubach appeared quite powerless. “Should I tell her to leave moving the rest of her things over till later, then, Mr. K.? If that’s what you want I’ll do it immediately.” “But she has to move in with Miss Burstner!” said K. “Yes,” said Mrs. Grubach, without quite understanding what K. meant. “So she has to take her things over there.” Mrs. Grubach just nodded. K. was irritated all the more by this dumb helplessness which, seen from the outside, could have seemed like a kind of defiance on her part. He began to walk up and down the room between the window and the door, thus depriving Mrs. Grubach of the chance to leave, which she otherwise probably would have done.
“哦，别哭，格鲁巴赫太太，”K.看着窗外，心里只想着伯斯特纳小姐，以及她如何接纳​​一个陌生的女孩进入她的房间。 “现在别哭了，”他再次说道，同时又把目光转向格鲁巴赫夫人仍在哭泣的房间。 “我这么说的时候也没有恶意。这只是我们之间的一个误会。有时即使是老朋友之间也会发生这种情况。”格鲁巴赫夫人把围裙拉到眼睛下方，想看看 K. 是否真的在试图和解。 “嗯，是的，事情就是这样，”K说，而格鲁巴赫夫人的行为表明船长什么也没说，他不敢补充道，“那么，你真的认为我想树敌吗？”为了一个我们几乎不认识的女孩而背叛你？” “是的，你说得很对，K先生。”格鲁巴赫夫人说，然后，不幸的是，当她感觉稍微能自由发言时，她又补充了一些相当无能的话。 “我不断地问自己，为什么 K 先生对伯斯特纳小姐如此感兴趣。当他知道他的任何一句脏话都会让我那天晚上睡不着觉时，为什么他还要为了她而和我争吵呢？我没有说任何我没有亲眼所见的关于伯斯特纳小姐的事情。” K没有说话，她一开口他就应该把她赶出房间，但他不想这么做。他只满足于喝着咖啡，让格鲁巴赫夫人觉得她是多余的。外面，蒙塔格小姐从走廊的一侧走到另一侧时，拖着拖拉的脚步声依然清晰可闻。 “你听到了吗？” K用手指着门问道。 “是的，”格鲁巴赫太太叹了口气说，“我想给她一些帮助，我想让女仆也帮她，但她很固执，她想把自己身上的一切都搬走。 我对伯斯特纳小姐感到好奇。我常常觉得蒙塔格小姐作为房客对我来说是一种负担，但伯斯特纳小姐却接受她和她自己一起住进自己的房间。” “你不用担心，”K.一边说，一边把杯子里剩下的糖块压碎。 “她有给你添麻烦吗？” “不，”格鲁巴赫夫人说，“她在那里本身就很好，它为我腾出了另一个房间，我可以让我的侄子，船长，占用它。这几天我不得不让他住在你旁边的客厅，我开始担心他会打扰你。他不太体贴。” “真是个好主意！” K站起来说道，“这是毫无疑问的。你似乎认为，因为我无法忍受蒙塔格小姐的这种来回走动，所以我过于敏感，所以她又回来了。”格鲁巴赫夫人显得很无能为力。 “那么，K 先生，我应该告诉她先把剩下的东西搬到以后再说吗？”如果这是你想要的，我会立即去做。” “但她必须搬去和伯斯特纳小姐住在一起！” “是的，”格鲁巴赫夫人说，但不太明白 K 的意思。 “所以她必须把她的东西带到那里。”格鲁巴赫夫人只是点点头。 K.对这种愚蠢的无助感到更加恼火，从外表上看，她似乎是一种反抗。他开始在房间的窗户和门之间走来走去，从而剥夺了格鲁巴赫夫人离开的机会，否则她很可能会这样做。

Just as K. once more reached the door, someone knocked at it. It was the maid, to say that Miss Montag would like to have a few words with Mr. K., and therefore requested that he come to the dining room where she was waiting for him. K. heard the maid out thoughtfully, and then looked back at the shocked Mrs. Grubach in a way that was almost contemptuous. His look seemed to be saying that K. had been expecting this invitation for Miss Montag for a long time, and that it was confirmation of the suffering he had been made to endure that Sunday morning from Mrs. Grubach’s tenants. He sent the maid back with the reply that he was on his way, then he went to the wardrobe to change his coat, and in answer to Mrs. Grubach’s gentle whining about the nuisance Miss Montag was causing merely asked her to clear away the breakfast things. “But you’ve hardly touched it,” said Mrs. Grubach. “Oh just take it away!” shouted K. It seemed to him that Miss Montag was mixed up in everything and made it repulsive to him.
正当K再次走到门口时，有人敲门。是女仆说蒙塔格小姐想和K先生说几句话，于是请他到餐厅里等他。 K若有所思地听女仆说完，然后用近乎轻蔑的眼神回头看着震惊的格鲁巴赫夫人。他的表情似乎在说，K. 期待蒙塔格小姐的邀请已经很久了，这证实了他在那个周日早上从格鲁巴赫太太的房客那里承受的痛苦。他打发女仆回来，回答说他正在路上，然后他去衣柜换了外套，格鲁巴赫太太温柔地抱怨蒙塔格小姐造成的麻烦，他只是要求她把早餐收拾好，以此作为回应。事物。 “但你几乎没碰过它，”格鲁巴赫夫人说。 “哦，把它拿走吧！” K喊道。在他看来，蒙塔格小姐把一切都搞混了，让他感到厌恶。

As he went through the hallway he looked at the closed door of Miss Burstner’s room. But it wasn’t there that he was invited, but the dining room, to which he yanked the door open without knocking.
当他穿过走廊时，他看着伯斯特纳小姐房间紧闭的门。但他被邀请的并不是那里，而是餐厅，他没有敲门就猛地打开了门。

The room was long but narrow with one window. There was only enough space available to put two cupboards at an angle in the corner by the door, and the rest of the room was entirely taken up with the long dining table which started by the door and reached all the way to the great window, which was thus made almost inaccessible. The table was already laid for a large number of people, as on Sundays almost all the tenants ate their dinner here at midday.
房间又长又窄，只有一扇窗户。门边的角落里只够斜放两个橱柜，房间的其余部分完全被一张长餐桌占据了，餐桌从门开始一直延伸到大窗户，因此几乎无法进入。桌子上已经摆好了很多人，因为周日中午几乎所有的房客都在这里吃晚饭。

When K. entered, Miss Montag came towards him from the window along one side of the table. They greeted each other in silence. Then Miss Montag, her head unusually erect as always, said, “I’m not sure whether you know me.” K. looked at her with a frown. “Of course I do,” he said, “you’ve been living here with Mrs. Grubach for quite some time now.” “But I get the impression you don’t pay much attention to what’s going on in the lodging house,” said Miss Montag. “No,” said K. “Would you not like to sit down?” said Miss Montag. In silence, the two of them drew chairs out from the farthest end of the table and sat down facing each other. But Miss Montag stood straight up again as she had left her handbag on the window sill and went to fetch it; she shuffled down the whole length of the room. When she came back, the handbag lightly swinging, she said, “I’d like just to have a few words with you on behalf of my friend. She would have come herself, but she’s feeling a little unwell today. Perhaps you’ll be kind enough to forgive her and listen to me instead. There’s anyway nothing that she could have said that I won’t. On the contrary, in fact, I think I can say even more than her because I’m relatively impartial. Would you not agree?” “What is there to say, then?” answered K., who was tired of Miss Montag continuously watching his lips. In that way she took control of what he wanted to say before he said it. “Miss Burstner clearly refuses to grant me the personal meeting that I asked her for.” “That’s how it is,” said Miss Montag, “ or rather, that’s not at all how it is, the way you put it is remarkably severe. Generally speaking, meetings are neither granted nor the opposite. But it can be that meetings are considered unnecessary, and that’s how it is here. Now, after your comment, I can speak openly. You asked my friend, verbally or in writing, for the chance to speak with her. Now my friend is aware of your reasons for asking for this meeting or at least I suppose she is and so, for reasons I know nothing about, she is quite sure that it would be of no benefit to anyone if this meeting actually took place. Moreover, it was only yesterday, and only very briefly, that she made it clear to me that such a meeting could be of no benefit for yourself either, she feels that it can only have been a matter of chance that such an idea came to you, and that even without any explanations from her, you will very soon come to realise yourself, if you have not done so already, the futility of your idea. My answer to that is that although it may be quite right, I consider it advantageous, if the matter is to be made perfectly clear, to give you an explicit answer. I offered my services in taking on the task, and after some hesitation my friend conceded. I hope, however, also to have acted in your interests, as even the slightest uncertainty in the least significant of matters will always remain a cause of suffering and if, as in this case, it can be removed without substantial effort, then it is better if that is done without delay.” “I thank you,” said K. as soon as Miss Montag had finished. He stood slowly up, looked at her, then across the table, then out the window the house opposite stood there in the sun and went to the door. Miss Montag followed him a few paces, as if she did not quite trust him. At the door, however, both of them had to step back as it opened and Captain Lanz entered. This was the first time that K. had seen him close up. He was a large man of about forty with a tanned, fleshy face. He bowed slightly, intending it also for K., and then went over to Miss Montag and deferentially kissed her hand. He was very elegant in the way he moved. The courtesy he showed towards Miss Montag made a striking contrast with the way she had been treated by K. Nonetheless, Miss Montag did not seem to be cross with K. as it even seemed to him that she wanted to introduce the captain. K. however, did not want to be introduced, he would not have been able to show any sort of friendliness either to Miss Montag or to the captain, the kiss on the hand had, for K., bound them into a group which would keep him at a distance from Miss Burstner whilst at the same time seeming to be totally harmless and unselfish. K. thought, however, that he saw more than that, he thought he also saw that Miss Montag had chosen a means of doing it that was good, but two-edged. She exaggerated the importance of the relationship between K. and Miss Burstner, and above all she exaggerated the importance of asking to speak with her and she tried at the same time to make out that K. was exaggerating everything. She would be disappointed, K. did not want to exaggerate anything, he was aware that Miss Burstner was a little typist who would not offer him much resistance for long. In doing so he deliberately took no account of what Mrs. Grubach had told him about Miss Burstner. All these things were going through his mind as he left the room with hardly a polite word. He wanted to go straight to his room, but a little laugh from Miss Montag that he heard from the dining room behind him brought him to the idea that he might prepare a surprise for the two of them, the captain and Miss Montag. He looked round and listened to find out if there might be any disturbance from any of the surrounding rooms, everywhere was quiet, the only thing to be heard was the conversation from the dining room and Mrs. Grubach’s voice from the passage leading to the kitchen. This seemed an opportune time, K. went to Miss Burstner’s room and knocked gently. There was no sound so he knocked again but there was still no answer in reply. Was she asleep? Or was she really unwell? Or was she just pretending as she realised it could only be K. knocking so gently? K. assumed she was pretending and knocked harder, eventually, when the knocking brought no result, he carefully opened the door with the sense of doing something that was not only improper but also pointless. In the room there was no-one. What’s more, it looked hardly at all like the room K. had known before. Against the wall there were now two beds behind one another, there were clothes piled up on three chairs near the door, a wardrobe stood open. Miss Burstner must have gone out while Miss Montag was speaking to him in the dining room. K. was not greatly bothered by this, he had hardly expected to be able to find Miss Burstner so easily and had made this attempt for little more reason than to spite Miss Montag. But that made it all the more embarrassing for him when, as he was closing the door again, he saw Miss Montag and the captain talking in the open doorway of the dining room. They had probably been standing there ever since K. had opened the door, they avoided seeming to observe K. but chatted lightly and followed his movements with glances, the absent minded glances to the side such as you make during a conversation. But these glances were heavy for K., and he rushed alongside the wall back into his own room.
当K进来时，蒙塔格小姐从桌子一侧的窗户向他走来。他们默默地互相打招呼。然后蒙塔格小姐一如既往地昂着头说道：“我不确定你是否认识我。” K.皱着眉头看着她。 “我当然知道，”他说，“你和格鲁巴赫夫人在这里住了很长一段时间了。” “但我感觉你不太关心宿舍里发生的事情，”蒙塔格小姐说。 “不，”K说，“你不想坐下吗？”蒙塔格小姐说。两人沉默着，从桌子最远端拉出椅子，面对面坐下。但蒙塔格小姐又站直了身子，她把手提包放在窗台上，然后去取。她拖着脚步走遍整个房间。当她回来时，手提包轻轻一晃，她说道：“我想代表我的朋友和你说几句话。她本来可以自己来的，但她今天感觉有点不舒服。也许你会原谅她并听我的话。无论如何，她能说的我都不会说。相反，其实我觉得我可以说的比她更多，因为我比较公正。你不同意吗？” “那还有什么好说的呢？” K.回答道，他厌倦了蒙塔格小姐一直盯着他的嘴唇。就这样，在他说出口之前，她就控制住了他想说的话。 “伯斯特纳小姐显然拒绝同意我要求的私人会面。” “事情就是这样，”蒙塔格小姐说，“或者更确切地说，根本不是这样，你说的方式非常严厉。一般来说，会议既不是被允许的，也不是相反的。但会议也可能被认为是不必要的，这里就是这样。 现在，在您发表评论后，我可以公开发言。您以口头或书面形式向我的朋友请求与她交谈的机会。现在我的朋友知道你要求召开这次会议的原因，或者至少我想她知道，所以，出于我一无所知的原因，她非常确定，如果这次会议真的举行，对任何人都没有好处。而且，就在昨天，而且只是很简短地，她才向我明确表示，这样的会面对你自己也没有任何好处，她觉得这种想法只能是偶然的。你，即使没有她的任何解释，你很快就会意识到自己的想法是徒劳的，如果你还没有这样做的话。我对此的回答是，虽然这可能是完全正确的，但我认为，如果要让事情完全清楚的话，给你一个明确的答案是有利的。我主动提出愿意承担这项任务，经过一番犹豫之后，我的朋友承认了。然而，我也希望是为了你的利益而行事，因为即使是最不重要的事情中最轻微的不确定性也将永远成为痛苦的根源，如果像在这种情况下一样，可以不费力气地消除它，那么它就是如果立即完成就更好了。” “谢谢你，”蒙塔格小姐一说完，K就说道。他慢慢站起来，看着她，然后越过桌子，然后窗外对面的房子站在阳光下，走到门口。蒙塔格小姐跟着他走了几步，似乎不太信任他。然而，到了门口，门打开，兰兹船长走了进来，他们两人都不得不后退。这是K.第一次近距离地看到他。他是个四十岁左右的大男人，一张晒黑的、肉乎乎的脸。 他微微鞠了一躬，也是为了K.，然后走到蒙塔格小姐面前，恭敬地吻了吻她的手。他的动作非常优雅。他对蒙塔格小姐的礼貌与K对待她的方式形成了鲜明的对比。尽管如此，蒙塔格小姐似乎并没有对K生气，甚至在他看来，她想介绍船长。然而，K. 不想被介绍，他无法对蒙塔格小姐或船长表现出任何形式的友好，对K.来说，手上的吻已经将他们束缚在了一起，让他与伯斯特纳小姐保持距离，同时又显得完全无害且无私。然而，K.认为他看到的不仅仅是这些，他认为他还看到蒙塔格小姐选择了一种很好的方法，但有两面性。她夸大了K.和伯斯特纳小姐之间关系的重要性，最重要的是，她夸大了要求与她交谈的重要性，同时她试图证明K.夸大了一切。她会失望的，K.不想夸大任何事情，他知道伯斯特纳小姐是个小打字员，不会长期对他进行太多抵抗。在这样做时，他故意不考虑格鲁巴赫夫人告诉他的有关伯斯特纳小姐的事情。当他离开房间时，几乎没有客气地说一句，所有这些事情都在他的脑海中浮现。他本想直接回自己的房间，但身后餐厅里传来蒙塔格小姐的一声轻笑，让他想到要不要给船长和蒙塔格小姐两人准备一个惊喜。 他环顾四周，听听周围的房间是否有什么动静，到处都很安静，只能听到餐厅里的谈话声和通往厨房的通道里格鲁巴赫太太的声音。 。这似乎是一个好时机，K.走到伯斯特纳小姐的房间，轻轻地敲了敲门。没有声音，他又敲了敲门，但仍然没有回应。她睡着了吗？还是她真的身体不舒服？或者她只是假装意识到这只能是K.轻轻敲门？ K.以为她是装的，就更用力地敲门，最后，敲门没有结果，他小心翼翼地打开了门，感觉自己做了一件既不正当又毫无意义的事情。房间里空无一人。更重要的是，它看起来一点也不像K.以前认识的房间。靠墙现在有两张床并排放置，靠近门的三把椅子上堆放着衣服，衣柜敞开着。当蒙塔格小姐在餐厅里和他说话时，伯斯特纳小姐肯定出去了。 K.对此并没有太大的困扰，他几乎没有想到能够如此轻松地找到伯斯特纳小姐，他这样做的原因无非是为了激怒蒙塔格小姐。但当他再次关上门时，看到蒙塔格小姐和船长在餐厅敞开的门口谈话，这让他更加尴尬了。大概从K打开门起，他们就一直站在那里，避免表现出在观察K的样子，只是轻声闲聊，用目光追随他的动作，就像谈话时那样心不在焉地向旁边看去。但这些目光对K来说很沉重，他沿着墙冲回了自己的房间。

Chapter Five
第五章

The whip-man
鞭子人

One evening, a few days later, K. was walking along one of the corridors that separated his office from the main stairway he was nearly the last one to leave for home that evening, there remained only a couple of workers in the light of a single bulb in the dispatch department when he heard a sigh from behind a door which he had himself never opened but which he had always thought just led into a junk room. He stood in amazement and listened again to establish whether he might not be mistaken. For a while there was silence, but then came some more sighs. His first thought was to fetch one of the servitors, it might well have been worth having a witness present, but then he was taken by an uncontrollable curiosity that make him simply yank the door open. It was, as he had thought, a junk room. Old, unusable forms, empty stone ink-bottles lay scattered behind the entrance. But in the cupboard-like room itself stood three men, crouching under the low ceiling. A candle fixed on a shelf gave them light. “What are you doing here?” asked K. quietly, but crossly and without thinking. One of the men was clearly in charge, and attracted attention by being dressed in a kind of dark leather costume which left his neck and chest and his arms exposed. He did not answer. But the other two called out, “Mr. K.! We’re to be beaten because you made a complaint about us to the examining judge.” And now, K. finally realised that it was actually the two policemen, Franz and Willem, and that the third man held a cane in his hand with which to beat them. “Well,” said K., staring at them, “I didn’t make any complaint, I only said what took place in my home. And your behaviour was not entirely unobjectionable, after all.” “Mr. K.,” said Willem, while Franz clearly tried to shelter behind him as protection from the third man, “if you knew how badly we get paid you wouldn’t think so badly of us. I’ve got a family to feed, and Franz here wanted to get married, you just have to get more money where you can, you can’t do it just by working hard, not however hard you try. I was sorely tempted by your fine clothes, policemen aren’t allowed to do that sort of thing, course they aren’t, and it wasn’t right of us, but it’s tradition that the clothes go to the officers, that’s how it’s always been, believe me; and it’s understandable too, isn’t it, what can things like that mean for anyone unlucky enough to be arrested? But if he starts talking about it openly then the punishment has to follow.” “I didn’t know about any of this that you’ve been telling me, and I made no sort of request that you be punished, I was simply acting on principle.” “Franz,” said Willem, turning to the other policeman, “didn’t I tell you that the gentleman didn’t say he wanted us to be punished? Now you can hear for yourself, he didn’t even know we’d have to be punished.” “Don’t you let them persuade you, talking like that,” said the third man to K., “this punishment is both just and unavoidable.” “Don’t listen to him,” said Willem, interrupting himself only to quickly bring his hand to his mouth when it had received a stroke of the cane, “we’re only being punished because you made a complaint against us. Nothing would have happened to us otherwise, not even if they’d found out what we’d done. Can you call that justice? Both of us, me especially, we’d proved our worth as good police officers over a long period you’ve got to admit yourself that as far as official work was concerned we did the job well things looked good for us, we had prospects, it’s quite certain that we would’ve been made whip-men too, like this one, only he had the luck not to have anyone make a complaint about him, as you really don’t get many complaints like that. Only that’s all finished now, Mr. K., our careers are at an end, we’re going to have to do work now that’s far inferior to police work and besides all this we’re going to get this terrible, painful beating.” “Can the cane really cause so much pain, then?” asked K., testing the cane that the whip-man swang in front of him. “We’re going to have to strip off totally naked,” said Willem. “Oh, I see,” said K., looking straight at the whip-man, his skin was burned brown like a sailor’s, and his face showed health and vigorous. “Is there then no possibility of sparing these two their beating?” he asked him. “No,” said the whip-man, shaking his head with a laugh. “Get undressed!” he ordered the policemen. And to K. he said, “You shouldn’t believe everything they tell you, it’s the fear of being beaten, it’s already made them a bit weak in the head. This one here, for instance,” he pointed at Willem, “all that he told you about his career prospects, it’s just ridiculous. Look at him, look how fat he is the first strokes of the cane will just get lost in all that fat. Do you know what it is that’s made him so fat? He’s in the habit of, everyone that gets arrested by him, he eats their breakfast. Didn’t he eat up your breakfast? Yeah, I thought as much. But a man with a belly like that can’t be made into a whip-man and never will be, that is quite out of the question.” “There are whip-men like that,” Willem insisted, who had just released the belt of this trousers. “No,” said the whip-man, striking him such a blow with the cane on his neck that it made him wince, “you shouldn’t be listening to this, just get undressed.” “I would make it well worth your while if you would let them go,” said K., and without looking at the whip-man again as such matters are best carried on with both pairs of eyes turned down he pulled out his wallet. “And then you’d try and put in a complaint against me, too,” said the whip-man, “and get me flogged. No, no!” “Now, do be reasonable,” said K., “if I had wanted to get these two punished I would not now be trying to buy their freedom, would I. I could simply close the door here behind me, go home and see or hear nothing more of it. But that’s not what I’m doing, it really is of much more importance to me to let them go free; if I had realised they would be punished, or even that they might be punished, I would never have named them in the first place as they are not the ones I hold responsible. It’s the organisation that’s to blame, the high officials are the ones to blame.” “That’s how it is!” shouted the policemen, who then immediately received another blow on their backs, which were by now exposed. “If you had a senior judge here beneath your stick,” said K., pressing down the cane as he spoke to stop it being raised once more, “I really would do nothing to stop you, on the contrary, I would even pay you money to give you all the more strength.” “Yeah, that’s all very plausible, what you’re saying there,” said the whip-man , “only I’m not the sort of person you can bribe. It’s my job to flog people, so I flog them.” Franz, the policeman, had been fairly quiet so far, probably in expectation of a good result from K.’s intervention, but now he stepped forward to the door wearing just his trousers, kneeled down hanging on to K.’s arm and whispered, “Even if you can’t get mercy shown for both of us, at least try and get me set free. Willem is older than me, he’s less sensitive than me in every way, he even got a light beating a couple of years ago, but my record’s still clean, I only did things the way I did because Willem led me on to it, he’s been my teacher both for good and bad. Down in front of the bank my poor bride is waiting for me at the entrance, I’m so ashamed of myself, it’s pitiful.” His face was flowing over with tears, and he wiped it dry on K.’s coat. “I’m not going to wait any longer,” said the whip-man, taking hold of the cane in both hands and laying in to Franz while Willem cowered back in a corner and looked on secretly, not even daring to turn his head. Then, the sudden scream that shot out from Franz was long and irrevocable, it seemed to come not from a human being but from an instrument that was being tortured, the whole corridor rang with it, it must have been heard by everyone in the building. “Don’t shout like that!”, called out K., unable to prevent himself, and, as he looked anxiously in the direction from which the servitor would come, he gave Franz a shove, not hard, but hard enough for him to fall down unconscious, clawing at the ground with his hands by reflex; he still did not avoid being hit; the rod still found him on the floor; the tip of the rod swang regularly up and down while he rolled to and fro under its blows. And now one of the servitors appeared in the distance, with another a few steps behind him. K. had quickly thrown the door shut, gone over to one of the windows overlooking the yard and opened it. The screams had completely stopped. So that the servitor wouldn’t come in, he called out, “It’s only me!” “Good evening, chief clerk,” somebody called back. “Is there anything wrong?” “No, no,” answered K., “it’s only a dog yelping in the yard.” There was no sound from the servitors so he added, “You can go back to what you were doing.” He did not want to become involved with a conversation with them, and so he leant out of the window. A little while later, when he looked out in the corridor, they had already gone. Now, K. remained at the window, he did not dare go back into the junk room, and he did not want to go home either. The yard he looked down into was small and rectangular, all around it were offices, all the windows were now dark and only those at the very top caught a reflection of the moon. K tried hard to see into the darkness of one corner of the yard, where a few handcarts had been left behind one another. He felt anguish at not having been able to prevent the flogging, but that was not his fault, if Franz had not screamed like that clearly it must have caused a great deal of pain but it’s important to maintain control of oneself at important moments if Franz had not screamed then it was at least highly probable that K. would have been able to dissuade the whip-man. If all the junior officers were contemptible why would the whip-man, whose position was the most inhumane of all, be any exception, and K. had noticed very clearly how his eyes had lit up when he saw the banknotes, he had obviously only seemed serious about the flogging to raise the level of the bribe a little. And K. had not been ungenerous, he really had wanted to get the policemen freed; if he really had now begun to do something against the degeneracy of the court then it was a matter of course that he would have to do something here as well. But of course, it became impossible for him to do anything as soon as Franz started screaming. K. could not possibly have let the junior bank staff, and perhaps even all sorts of other people, come along and catch him by surprise as he haggled with those people in the junk room. Nobody could really expect that sort of sacrifice of him. If that had been his intention then it would almost have been easier, K. would have taken his own clothes off and offered himself to the whip-man in the policemen’s place. The whip-man would certainly not have accepted this substitution anyway, as in that way he would have seriously violated his duty without gaining any benefit. He would most likely have violated his duty twice over, as court employees were probably under orders not to cause any harm to K. while he was facing charges, although there may have been special conditions in force here. However things stood, K. was able to do no more than throw the door shut, even though that would still do nothing to remove all the dangers he faced. It was regrettable that he had given Franz a shove, and it could only be excused by the heat of the moment.
几天后的一个晚上，K. 沿着将他的办公室与主楼梯隔开的一条走廊走着，那天晚上他几乎是最后一个回家的人，在灯光的照耀下，只剩下几个工人了。当他听到一扇门后面传来一声叹息时，调度部门的一个灯泡，他自己从未打开过，但他一直以为这扇门只是通向一个垃圾房。他惊讶地站起来，再次听了听，以确定自己是否听错了。一阵沉默，但随后又传来了几声叹息。他的第一个念头是去找一名仆人，也许有目击者在场是值得的，但随后他被一种无法控制的好奇心所吸引，让他猛地把门拉开。正如他所想，这是一个杂物间。旧的、无法使用的表格和空的石墨水瓶散落在入口后面。但在这个像橱柜一样的房间里，站着三个男人，蹲在低矮的天花板下。架子上固定的蜡烛为他们提供了照明。 “你在这里做什么？” K.轻声问道，但不假思索地生气了。其中一名男子显然是负责人，他穿着一种深色皮革服装，脖子、胸部和手臂都暴露在外，引起了人们的注意。他没有回答。但另外两人却喊道：“先生。” K.！我们会被殴打，因为你向预审法官投诉了我们。”现在，K.终于意识到，这实际上是弗兰兹和威廉这两名警察，而第三个人手里拿着一根拐杖，正在殴打他们。 “好吧，”K盯着他们说，“我没有抱怨，我只是说了我家里发生的事情。毕竟，你的行为也并非完全没有问题。” “先生。 K.”威廉说道，而弗朗茨显然试图躲在他身后，以免受第三者的伤害，“如果你知道我们的薪水有多低，你就不会认为我们这么糟糕了。我要养家糊口，而弗兰茨想结婚，你只需要尽可能多赚点钱，你不能仅仅通过努力工作来做到这一点，无论你多么努力。我被你漂亮的衣服深深吸引了，警察不可以做那种事，当然不可以，这对我们来说是不对的，但是衣服是给警察的，这是传统，就是这样一直都是，相信我；这也可以理解，不是吗，对于一个不幸被捕的人来说，这样的事情意味着什么？但如果他开始公开谈论这件事，那么惩罚就必须随之而来。” “我不知道你告诉我的这些事情，我也没有提出任何要求你受到惩罚的要求，我只是按照原则行事。” “弗兰茨，”威廉转向另一名警察说道，“我不是告诉过你那位先生没有说过他希望我们受到惩罚吗？现在你可以亲耳听到，他甚至不知道我们必须受到惩罚。” “你别让他们这样说话来说服你，”第三个人对K说，“这种惩罚既公正又不可避免。” “别听他的，”威廉打断了自己的话，但在手杖挨了一击后又迅速把手放到嘴边，“我们只是因为你投诉我们而受到惩罚。否则的话，即使他们发现我们做了什么，我们也不会发生什么事。你能称之为正义吗？ 我们俩，尤其是我，我们已经在很长一段时间内证明了我们作为优秀警察的价值，你必须承认，就正式工作而言，我们做得很好，事情看起来对我们来说很好，我们有前景，我们肯定也会被当鞭子的，就像这个，只是他运气好，没有人抱怨他，因为这样的抱怨确实不多。只是现在一切都结束了，K先生，我们的职业生涯已经结束了，我们现在要做的工作远不如警察的工作，除此之外，我们还将遭受可怕的、痛苦的殴打。 ” “那么，手杖真的能造成这么大的痛苦吗？” K.一边试探鞭子在他面前挥舞的手杖，一边问道。 “我们必须脱光衣服，”威廉说。 “哦，我明白了，”K直视着鞭子说，他的皮肤像水手一样被烧成棕色，脸上显示出健康和活力。 “那这两个人就没有可能免遭殴打了吗？”他问他。 “不，”鞭子笑着摇摇头说。 “脱衣服！”他命令警察。他对K说：“你不应该相信他们告诉你的一切，这是因为害怕被打败，这已经让他们的头脑有点虚弱了。”例如，这里的这个，”他指着威廉，“他告诉你的所有关于他的职业前景的事情都是荒谬的。看看他，看看他有多胖，手杖的第一下就会消失在所有的脂肪中。你知道是什么让他这么胖吗？他有一个习惯，每个被他逮捕的人，他都会吃他们的早餐。他没吃完你的早餐吗？是的，我也是这么想的。 但一个有这样肚子的人不可能成为鞭子手，永远也不会成为鞭子手，这是完全不可能的。” “有这样的鞭子，”刚刚解开裤子腰带的威廉坚持道。 “不，”鞭子说，用拐杖打在他脖子上，打得他皱起眉头，“你不应该听这些，把衣服脱了。” “如果你愿意放他们走，我会让你觉得值得。”K.说着，没有再看鞭子手，因为这种事情最好在双眼低垂的情况下进行，他掏出了钱包。 “然后你也会试图对我提出控告，”鞭子人说，“然后让我受到鞭打。不，不！” “现在，请讲道理，”K 说，“如果我想让这两个人受到惩罚，我现在就不会试图购买他们的自由了，对吗？我可以简单地关上身后的门，回家看看或者什么也听不到了。但这不是我正在做的事情，让他们自由对我来说确实更重要；如果我意识到他们会受到惩罚，或者甚至他们可能会受到惩罚，我一开始就不会提到他们的名字，因为他们不是我认为负责的人。责任归咎于组织，责任归咎于高级官员。” “这就是来龙去脉！”警察喊道，他们的后背立刻又挨了一击，现在已经暴露了。 “如果你的手杖下面有一位资深法官，”K.边说边按下手杖，阻止它再次举起，“我真的不会做任何事情来阻止你，相反，我什至愿意付钱你的钱可以给你更多的力量。” “是啊，你说的很有道理，”鞭子说，“只是我不是那种你可以贿赂的人。 鞭打人是我的工作，所以我鞭打他们。”警察弗兰兹一直保持着沉默，大概是期待着K.的介入能有个好结果，但现在他只穿着裤子走到门口，跪下抓住K.的手臂，低声说道：“即使你不能对我们俩发慈悲，至少也要设法让我自由。威廉比我年长，他在各方面都不如我敏感，几年前他甚至还被打过，但我的记录仍然干净，我只是按照自己的方式做事，因为威廉引导我这样做，他是无论好坏，他都是我的老师。在银行前面，我可怜的新娘正在入口处等我，我为自己感到羞愧，真是可怜。”他满脸泪水，用K.的外套擦干。 “我不会再等了。”鞭子手双手握着手杖，对着弗朗茨说道，而威廉则缩在角落里，偷偷地看着，连头都不敢回头。 。紧接着，弗兰茨突然发出一声漫长而无法挽回的惨叫，那声音似乎不是来自人，而是来自一台正在受折磨的仪器，整个走廊都响了起来，想必大楼里的每个人都听到了。 。 “不要这样喊叫！”K.无法阻止自己喊道，当他焦急地看着仆人即将到来的方向时，他推了弗兰兹一下，虽然力度不大，但对他来说已经足够用力了。倒地不省人事，反射性地用手抓着地面；他还是没能避免被击中。棍子仍然发现他躺在地板上；棍子的尖端有规律地上下摆动，而他则在棍子的打击下来回滚动。 现在远处出现了一名仆人，另一名仆人就在他身后几步远的地方。 K.迅速关上门，走到一扇俯瞰院子的窗户前，打开了它。尖叫声完全停止了。为了不让仆人进来，他喊道：“只有我！” “晚上好，首席职员。”有人喊道。 “有什么不对的吗？” “不，不，”K回答道，“只是院子里有一只狗在叫。”侍从们没有再发出声音，他补充道：“你可以回去做你的事情了。”他不想与他们交谈，所以他把身子探出了窗外。过了一会儿，当他往走廊里看时，他们已经走了。现在，K.仍守在窗边，不敢再进杂物间，也不想回家。他俯视的院子很小，呈长方形，周围都是办公室，所有的窗户都黑了，只有最上面的窗户能看到月光。 K费力地向院子一角的黑暗里看去，那里有几辆手推车被留在了一起。他为无法阻止鞭打而感到痛苦，但这不是他的错，如果弗兰兹没有那样尖叫，显然它一定会造成很大的痛苦，但在重要时刻保持对自己的控制很重要，如果弗兰兹如果 K. 没有尖叫，那么至少很有可能 K. 能够劝阻鞭子。如果所有的下级军官都是可鄙的，为什么地位最不人道的鞭子会例外呢？ 他很清楚地注意到，当他看到钞票时，他的眼睛亮了起来，他显然只是为了提高一点贿赂的程度而对鞭打表现出严肃的态度。 K.也并不吝啬，他真的很想让警察获释。如果他现在真的开始做一些事情来反对朝廷的堕落，那么他当然也必须在这里做一些事情。当然，弗朗兹一开始尖叫，他就什么也做不了了。 K.不可能让银行的初级工作人员，甚至可能还有其他各种各样的人出现，让他在垃圾房里与那些人讨价还价时措手不及。没有人能真正指望他做出这样的牺牲。如果那是他的意图，那么事情就容易多了，K.会脱掉自己的衣服，代替警察向鞭子献身。鞭子无论如何也不会接受这个替换，因为那样他就严重违背了自己的职责，却得不到任何好处。他很可能两次违反了自己的职责，因为法庭工作人员可能接到命令，在 K. 面临指控时不得对他造成任何伤害，尽管这里可能有特殊条件。不管情况如何，K. 只能把门关上，尽管这仍然无法消除他所面临的所有危险。很遗憾他推了弗兰兹一下，但只能以一时冲动来原谅。

In the distance, he heard the steps of the servitors; he did not want them to be too aware of his presence, so he closed the window and walked towards the main staircase. At the door of the junk room he stopped and listened for a little while. All was silent. The two policemen were entirely at the whip-man’s mercy; he could have beaten them to death. K. reached his hand out for the door handle but drew it suddenly back. He was no longer in any position to help anyone, and the servitors would soon be back; he did, though, promise himself that he would raise the matter again with somebody and see that, as far as it was in his power, those who really were guilty, the high officials whom nobody had so far dared point out to him, received their due punishment. As he went down the main stairway at the front of the bank, he looked carefully round at everyone who was passing, but there was no girl to be seen who might have been waiting for somebody, not even within some distance from the bank. Franz’s claim that his bride was waiting for him was thus shown to be a lie, albeit one that was forgivable and intended only to elicit more sympathy.
远处，他听见仆人的脚步声；他不想让他们太注意到他的存在，于是关上窗户，朝主楼梯走去。在垃圾房门口，他停下来听了一会儿。一切都寂静无声。两名警察完全听凭鞭子的摆布。他本可以把他们打死的。 K.把手伸向门把手，但突然又缩了回来。他已经无法帮助任何人了，而仆人们很快就会回来。不过，他确实向自己保证，他会再次向某人提出此事，并确保在他力所能及的范围内，那些真正有罪的人，那些迄今为止没有人敢向他指出的高级官员，都会受到惩罚。他们应有的惩罚。当他走下银行前面的主楼梯时，他仔细地环顾四周经过的每个人，但没有看到可能在等人的女孩，甚至在离银行很远的地方也没有看到。因此，弗朗兹声称他的新娘正在等他的说法被证明是一个谎言，尽管这是可以原谅的，只是为了博得更多同情。

The policemen were still on K.’s mind all through the following day; he was unable to concentrate on his work and had to stay in his office a little longer than the previous day so that he could finish it. On the way home, as he passed by the junk room again, he opened its door as if that had been his habit. Instead of the darkness he expected, he saw everything unchanged from the previous evening, and did not know how he should respond. Everything was exactly the same as he had seen it when he had opened the door the previous evening. The forms and bottles of ink just inside the doorway, the whip-man with his cane, the two policemen, still undressed, the candle on the shelf, and the two policemen began to wail and call out “Mr. K.!” K. slammed the door immediately shut, and even thumped on it with his fists as if that would shut it all the firmer. Almost in tears, he ran to the servitors working quietly at the copying machine. “Go and get that junk room cleared out!” he shouted, and, in amazement, they stopped what they were doing. “It should have been done long ago, we’re sinking in dirt!” They would be able to do the job the next day, K. nodded, it was too late in the evening to make them do it there and then as he had originally intended. He sat down briefly in order to keep them near him for a little longer, looked through a few of the copies to give the impression that he was checking them and then, as he saw that they would not dare to leave at the same time as himself, went home tired and with his mind numb.
第二天，K. 的脑海里仍然惦记着那些警察。他无法集中精力工作，不得不比前一天在办公室多呆一会儿才能完成工作。回家的路上，当他再次路过垃圾房时，他打开了门，仿佛这是他的习惯。他看到的并不是他所期待的黑暗，而是一切与前一天晚上没有任何变化，他不知道自己该如何应对。一切都和他前一天晚上打开门时看到的一模一样。门口的表格和墨水瓶，拄着拐杖的鞭子，两名警察，还没有穿衣服，蜡烛放在架子上，两名警察开始哭泣并喊道“先生”。 K.！” K立即把门关上，甚至用拳头猛击门，仿佛这样就能把门关得更紧。他几乎泪流满面地跑向正在复印机旁安静工作的服务员。 “去把那个垃圾房清理干净！”他喊道，他们惊讶地停下了手中的事情。 “早就该这么做了，我们已经陷入泥沼了！”他们第二天就可以做这项工作，K. 点点头，晚上已经太晚了，不能让他们按照他原来的计划当场做。他短暂地坐下来，以便让他们在自己身边多待一会儿，翻阅了几份，给人一种他正在检查的印象，然后，他发现他们不敢同时离开。他自己也疲惫不堪、精神麻木地回家了。

Chapter Six
第六章

K.’s uncle Leni
K.的叔叔Leni

One afternoon K. was very busy at the time, getting the post ready K.’s Uncle Karl, a small country land owner, came into the room, pushing his way between two of the staff who were bringing in some papers. K. had long expected his uncle to appear, but the sight of him now shocked K. far less than the prospect of it had done a long time before. His uncle was bound to come, K. had been sure of that for about a month. He already thought at the time he could see how his uncle would arrive, slightly bowed, his battered panama hat in his left hand, his right hand already stretched out over the desk long before he was close enough as he rushed carelessly towards K. knocking over everything that was in his way. K.’s uncle was always in a hurry, as he suffered from the unfortunate belief that he had a number things to do while he was in the big city and had to settle all of them in one day his visits were only ever for one day and at the same time thought he could not forgo any conversation or piece of business or pleasure that might arise by chance. Uncle Karl was K.’s former guardian, and so K. was duty-bound to help him in all of this as well as to offer him a bed for the night. ‘I’m haunted by a ghost from the country’, he would say.
一天下午，K. 当时正忙着准备邮件，K. 的叔叔卡尔，一位乡村小地主，走进房间，从两名送文件的工作人员中间挤过去。 K.早就预料到他的叔叔会出现，但现在看到他的叔叔让K.的震惊远不如很久以前那样。他的叔叔一定会来，K. 大约一个月前就确信这一点。他当时就已经想到，他的叔叔会来，微微鞠躬，左手拿着破旧的巴拿马帽，右手早在距离够近之前就伸到了桌子上，漫不经心地冲向K。超越一切阻碍他的事情。 K. 的叔叔总是很匆忙，因为他不幸地相信，在大城市期间他有很多事情要做，必须在一天内解决所有这些问题，他的来访只有一次一天，同时他认为他不能放弃任何可能偶然出现的谈话、生意或乐趣。卡尔叔叔是 K. 的前监护人，因此 K. 有责任在这一切上帮助他，并为他提供过夜的床位。他会说，“我被来自乡下的鬼魂困扰”。

As soon as they had greeted each other K. had invited him to sit in the armchair but Uncle Karl had no time for that he said he wanted to speak briefly with K. in private. “It is necessary,” he said with a tired gulp, “it is necessary for my peace of mind.” K. immediately sent the junior staff from the room and told them to let no-one in. “What’s this that I’ve been hearing, Josef?” cried K.’s uncle when they were alone, as he sat on the table shoving various papers under himself without looking at them to make himself more comfortable. K. said nothing, he knew what was coming, but, suddenly relieved from the effort of the work he had been doing, he gave way to a pleasant lassitude and looked out the window at the other side of the street. From where he sat, he could see just a small, triangular section of it, part of the empty walls of houses between two shop windows. “You’re staring out the window!” called out his uncle, raising his arms, “For God’s sake, Josef, give me an answer! Is it true, can it really be true?” “Uncle Karl,” said K., wrenching himself back from his daydreaming, “I really don’t know what it is you want of me.” “Josef,” said his uncle in a warning tone, “as far as I know, you’ve always told the truth. Am I to take what you’ve just said as a bad sign?” “I think I know what it is you want,” said K. obediently, “I expect you’ve heard about my trial.” “That’s right,” answered his uncle with a slow nod, “I’ve heard about your trial.” “Who did you hear it from, then?” asked K. “Erna wrote to me,” said his uncle, “she doesn’t have much contact with you, it’s true, you don’t pay very much attention to her, I’m afraid to say, but she learned about it nonetheless. I got her letter today and, of course, I came straight here. And for no other reason, but it seems to me that this is reason enough. I can read you out the part of the letter that concerns you.” He drew the letter out from his wallet. “Here it is. She writes; ‘I have not seen Josef for a long time, I was in the bank last week but Josef was so busy that they would not let me through; I waited there for nearly an hour but then I had to go home as I had my piano lesson. I would have liked to have spoken to him, maybe there will be a chance another time. He sent me a big box of chocolates for my name-day, that was very nice and attentive of him. I forgot to tell you about it when I wrote, and I only remember now that you ask me about it. Chocolate, as I am sure you are aware, disappears straight away in this lodging house, almost as soon as you know somebody has given you chocolate it is gone. But there is something else I wanted to tell you about Josef. Like I said, they would not let me through to see him at the bank because he was negotiating with some gentleman just then. After I had been waiting quietly for quite a long time I asked one of the staff whether his meeting would last much longer. He said it might well do, as it was probably about the legal proceedings, he said, that were being conducted against him. I asked what sort of legal proceedings it was that were being conducted against the chief clerk, and whether he was not making some mistake, but he said he was not making any mistake, there were legal proceedings underway and even that they were about something quite serious, but he did not know any more about it. He would have liked to have been of some help to the chief clerk himself, as the chief clerk was a gentleman, good and honest, but he did not know what it was he could do and merely hoped there would be some influential gentlemen who would take his side. I’m sure that is what will happen and that everything will turn out for the best in the end, but in the mean time things do not look at all good, and you can see that from the mood of the chief clerk himself. Of course, I did not place too much importance on this conversation, and even did my best to put the bank clerk’s mind at rest, he was quite a simple man. I told him he was not to speak to anyone else about this, and I think it is all just a rumour, but I still think it might be good if you, Dear Father, if you looked into the matter the next time you visit. It will be easy for you to find out more detail and, if it is really necessary, to do something about it through the great and influential people you know. But if it is not necessary, and that is what seems most likely, then at least your daughter will soon have the chance to embrace you and I look forward to it.’ She’s a good child,” said K.’s uncle when he had finished reading, and wiped a few tears from his eyes. K. nodded. With all the different disruptions he had had recently he had completely forgotten about Erna, even her birthday, and the story of the chocolates had clearly just been invented so that he wouldn’t get in trouble with his aunt and uncle. It was very touching, and even the theatre tickets, which he would regularly send her from then on, would not be enough to repay her, but he really did not feel, now, that it was right for him to visit her in her lodgings and hold conversations with a little, eighteen year old schoolgirl. “And what do you have to say about that?” asked his uncle,who had forgotten all his rush and excitement as he read the letter, and seemed to be about to read it again. “Yes, Uncle,” said K., “it is true.” “True!” called out his uncle. “What is true? How can this be true? What sort of trial is it? Not a criminal trial, I hope?” “It’s a criminal trial,” answered K. “And you sit quietly here while you’ve got a criminal trial round your neck?” shouted his uncle, getting ever louder. “The more calm I am, the better it will be for the outcome,” said K. in a tired voice, “don’t worry.” “How can I help worrying?!” shouted his uncle, “Josef, my Dear Josef, think about yourself, about your family, think about our good name! Up till now, you’ve always been our pride, don’t now become our disgrace. I don’t like the way you’re behaving,” he said, looking at K. with his head at an angle, “that’s not how an innocent man behaves when he’s accused of something, not if he’s still got any strength in him. Just tell me what it’s all about so that I can help you. It’s something to do with the bank, I take it?” “No,” said K. as he stood up, “and you’re speaking too loud, Uncle, I expect one of the staff is listening at the door and I find that rather unpleasant. It’s best if we go somewhere else, then I can answer all your questions, as far as I can. And I know very well that I have to account to the family for what I do.” “You certainly do!” his uncle shouted, “Quite right, you do. Now just get a move on, Josef, hurry up now!” “I still have a few documents I need to prepare,” said K., and, using the intercom, he summoned his deputy who entered a few moments later. K.’s uncle, still angry and excited, gestured with his hand to show that K. had summoned him, even though there was no need whatever to do so. K. stood in front of the desk and explained to the young man, who listened calm and attentive, what would need to be done that day in his absence, speaking in a calm voice and making use of various documents. The presence of K.’s uncle while this was going on was quite disturbing; he did not listen to what was being said, but at first he stood there with eyes wide open and nervously biting his lips. Then he began to walk up and down the room, stopped now and then at the window, or stood in front of a picture always making various exclamations such as, “That is totally incomprehensible to me!” or “Now just tell me, what are you supposed to make of that?!” The young man pretended to notice nothing of this and listened to K.’s instructions through to the end, he made a few notes, bowed to both K. and his uncle and then left the room. K.’s uncle had turned his back to him and was looking out the window, bunching up the curtains with his outstretched hands. The door had hardly closed when he called out, “At last! Now that he’s stopped jumping about we can go too!” Once they were in the front hall of the bank, where several members of staff were standing about and where, just then, the deputy director was walking across, there was unfortunately no way of stopping K.’s uncle from continually asking questions about the trial. “Now then, Josef,” he began, lightly acknowledging the bows from those around them as they passed, “tell me everything about this trial; what sort of trial is it?” K. made a few comments which conveyed little information, even laughed a little, and it was only when they reached the front steps that he explained to his uncle that he had not wanted to talk openly in front of those people. “Quite right,” said his uncle, “but now start talking.” With his head to one side, and smoking his cigar in short, impatient draughts, he listened. “First of all, Uncle,” said K., “it’s not a trial like you’d have in a normal courtroom.” “So much the worse,” said his uncle. “How’s that?” asked K., looking at him. “What I mean is, that’s for the worse,” he repeated. They were standing on the front steps of the bank; as the doorkeeper seemed to be listening to what they were saying K. drew his uncle down further, where they were absorbed into the bustle of the street. His uncle took K.’s arm and stopped asking questions with such urgency about the trial, they walked on for a while in silence. “But how did all this come about?” he eventually asked, stopping abruptly enough to startle the people walking behind, who had to avoid walking into him. “Things like this don’t come all of a sudden, they start developing a long time beforehand, there must have been warning signs of it, why didn’t you write to me? You know I’d do anything for you, to some extent I am still your guardian, and until today that’s something I was proud of. I’ll still help you, of course I will, only now, now that the trial is already underway, it makes it very difficult. But whatever; the best thing now is for you to take a short holiday staying with us in the country. You’ve lost weight, I can see that now. The country life will give you strength, that will be good, there’s bound to be a lot of hard work ahead of you. But besides that it’ll be a way of getting you away from the court, to some extent. Here they’ve got every means of showing the powers at their disposal and they’re automatically bound to use them against you; in the country they’ll either have to delegate authority to different bodies or just have to try and bother you by letter, telegram or telephone. And that’s bound to weaken the effect, it won’t release you from them but it’ll give you room to breathe.” “You could forbid me to leave,” said K., who had been drawn slightly into his uncle’s way of thinking by what he had been saying. “I didn’t think you would do it,” said his uncle thoughtfully, “you won’t suffer too much loss of power by moving away.” K. grasped his uncle under the arm to prevent him stopping still and said, “I thought you’d think all this is less important than I do, and now you’re taking it so hard.” “Josef,” called his uncle trying to disentangle himself from him so that he could stop walking, but K. did not let go, “you’ve completely changed, you used to be so astute, are you losing it now? Do you want to lose the trial? Do you realise what that would mean? That would mean you would be simply destroyed. And that everyone you know would be pulled down with you or at the very least humiliated, disgraced right down to the ground. Josef, pull yourself together. The way you’re so indifferent about it, it’s driving me mad. Looking at you I can almost believe that old saying: ‘Having a trial like that means losing a trial like that’.” “My dear Uncle,” said K., “it won’t do any good to get excited, it’s no good for you to do it and it’d be no good for me to do it. The case won’t be won by getting excited, and please admit that my practical experience counts for something, just as I have always and still do respect your experience, even when it surprises me. You say that the family will also be affected by this trial; I really can’t see how, but that’s beside the point and I’m quite willing to follow your instructions in all of this. Only, I don’t see any advantage in staying in the country, not even for you, as that would indicate flight and a sense of guilt. And besides, although I am more subject to persecution if I stay in the city I can also press the matter forward better here.” “You’re right,” said his uncle in a tone that seemed to indicate they were finally coming closer to each other, “I just made the suggestion because, as I saw it, if you stay in the city the case will be put in danger by your indifference to it, and I thought it was better if I did the work for you. But will you push things forward yourself with all your strength, if so, that will naturally be far better.” “We’re agreed then,” said K. “And do you have any suggestions for what I should do next?” “Well, naturally I’ll have to think about it,” said his uncle, “you must bear in mind that I’ve been living in the country for twenty years now, almost without a break, you lose your ability to deal with matters like this. But I do have some important connections with several people who, I expect, know their way around these things better than I do, and to contact them is a matter of course. Out there in the country I’ve been getting out of condition, I’m sure you’re already aware of that. It’s only at times like this that you notice it yourself. And this affair of yours came largely unexpected, although, oddly enough, I had expected something of the sort after I’d read Erna’s letter, and today when I saw your face I knew it with almost total certainty. But all that is by the by, the important thing now is, we have no time to lose.” Even while he was still speaking, K.’s uncle had stood on tiptoe to summon a taxi and now he pulled K. into the car behind himself as he called out an address to the driver. “We’re going now to see Dr. Huld, the lawyer,” he said, “we were at school together. I’m sure you know the name, don’t you? No? Well that is odd. He’s got a very good reputation as a defence barrister and for working with the poor. But I esteem him especially as someone you can trust.” “It’s alright with me, whatever you do,” said K., although he was made uneasy by the rushed and urgent way his uncle was dealing with the matter. It was not very encouraging, as the accused, be to taken to a lawyer for poor people. “I didn’t know,” he said, “that you could take on a lawyer in matters like this.” “Well of course you can,” said his uncle, “that goes without saying. Why wouldn’t you take on a lawyer? And now, so that I’m properly instructed in this matter, tell me what’s been happening so far.” K. instantly began telling his uncle about what had been happening, holding nothing back being completely open with him was the only way that K. could protest at his uncle’s belief that the trial was a great disgrace. He mentioned Miss Burstner’s name just once and in passing, but that did nothing to diminish his openness about the trial as Miss Burstner had no connection with it. As he spoke, he looked out the window and saw how, just then, they were getting closer to the suburb where the court offices were. He drew this to his uncle’s attention, but he did not find the coincidence especially remarkable. The taxi stopped in front of a dark building. K.’s uncle knocked at the very first door at ground level; while they waited he smiled, showing his big teeth, and whispered, “Eight o’clock; not the usual sort of time to be visiting a lawyer, but Huld won’t mind it from me.” Two large, black eyes appeared in the spy-hatch in the door, they stared at the two visitors for a while and then disappeared; the door, however, did not open. K. and his uncle confirmed to each other the fact that they had seen the two eyes. “A new maid, afraid of strangers,” said K.’s uncle, and knocked again. The eyes appeared once more. This time they seemed almost sad, but the open gas flame that burned with a hiss close above their heads gave off little light and that may have merely created an illusion. “Open the door,” called K.’s uncle, raising his fist against it, “we are friends of Dr. Huld, the lawyer!” “Dr. Huld is ill,” whispered someone behind them. In a doorway at the far end of a narrow passage stood a man in his dressing gown, giving them this information in an extremely quiet voice. K.’s uncle, who had already been made very angry by the long wait, turned abruptly round and retorted, “Ill? You say he’s ill?” and strode towards the gentleman in a way that seemed almost threatening, as if he were the illness himself. “They’ve opened the door for you, now,” said the gentleman, pointing at the door of the lawyer. He pulled his dressing gown together and disappeared. The door had indeed been opened, a young girl K. recognised the dark, slightly bulging eyes stood in the hallway in a long white apron, holding a candle in her hand. “Next time, open up sooner!” said K.’s uncle instead of a greeting, while the girl made a slight curtsey. “Come along, Josef,” he then said to K. who was slowly moving over towards the girl. “Dr. Huld is unwell,” said the girl as K.’s uncle, without stopping, rushed towards one of the doors. K. continued to look at the girl in amazement as she turned round to block the way into the living room, she had a round face like a puppy’s, not only the pale cheeks and the chin were round but the temples and the hairline were too. “Josef!” called his uncle once more, and he asked the girl, “It’s trouble with his heart, is it?” “I think it is, sir,” said the girl, who by now had found time to go ahead with the candle and open the door into the room. In one corner of the room, where the light of the candle did not reach, a face with a long beard looked up from the bed. “Leni, who’s this coming in?” asked the lawyer, unable to recognise his guests because he was dazzled by the candle. “It’s your old friend, Albert,” said K.’s uncle. “Oh, Albert,” said the lawyer, falling back onto his pillow as if this visit meant he would not need to keep up appearances. “Is it really as bad as that?” asked K.’s uncle, sitting on the edge of the bed. “I don’t believe it is. It’s a recurrence of your heart trouble and it’ll pass over like the other times.” “Maybe,” said the lawyer quietly, “but it’s just as much trouble as it’s ever been. I can hardly breathe, I can’t sleep at all and I’m getting weaker by the day.” “I see,” said K.’s uncle, pressing his panama hat firmly against his knee with his big hand. “That is bad news. But are you getting the right sort of care? And it’s so depressing in here, it’s so dark. It’s a long time since I was last here, but it seemed to me friendlier then. Even your young lady here doesn’t seem to have much life in her, unless she’s just pretending.” The maid was still standing by the door with the candle; as far as could be made out, she was watching K. more than she was watching his uncle even while the latter was still speaking about her. K. leant against a chair that he had pushed near to the girl. “When you’re as ill as I am,” said the lawyer, “you need to have peace. I don’t find it depressing.” After a short pause he added, “and Leni looks after me well, she’s a good girl.” But that was not enough to persuade K.’s uncle, he had visibly taken against his friend’s carer and, even though he did not contradict the invalid, he persecuted her with his scowl as she went over to the bed, put the candle on the bedside table and, leaning over the bed, made a fuss of him by tidying the pillows. K.’s uncle nearly forgot the need to show any consideration for the man who lay ill in bed, he stood up, walked up and down behind the carer, and K. would not have been surprised if he had grabbed hold of her skirts behind her and dragged her away from the bed. K. himself looked on calmly, he was not even disappointed at finding the lawyer unwell, he had been able to do nothing to oppose the enthusiasm his uncle had developed for the matter, he was glad that this enthusiasm had now been distracted without his having to do anything about it. His uncle, probably simply wishing to be offensive to the lawyer’s attendant, then said, “Young lady, now please leave us alone for a while, I have some personal matters to discuss with my friend.” Dr. Huld’s carer was still leant far over the invalid’s bed and smoothing out the cloth covering the wall next to it, she merely turned her head and then, in striking contrast with the anger that first stopped K.’s uncle from speaking and then let the words out in a gush, she said very quietly, “You can see that Dr. Huld is so ill that he can’t discuss any matters at all.” It was probably just for the sake of convenience that she had repeated the words spoken by K.’s uncle, but an onlooker might even have perceived it as mocking him and he, of course, jumped up as if he had just been stabbed. “You damned … ,” in the first gurglings of his excitement his words could hardly be understood, K. was startled even though he had been expecting something of the sort and ran to his uncle with the intention, no doubt, of closing his mouth with both his hands. Fortunately, though, behind the girl, the invalid raised himself up, K.’s uncle made an ugly face as if swallowing something disgusting and then, somewhat calmer, said, “We have naturally not lost our senses, not yet; if what I am asking for were not possible I would not be asking for it. Now please, go!” The carer stood up straight by the bed directly facing K.’s uncle, K. thought he noticed that with one hand she was stroking the lawyer’s hand. “You can say anything in front of Leni,” said the invalid, in a tone that was unmistakably imploring. “It’s not my business,” said K.’s uncle, “and it’s not my secrets.” And he twisted himself round as if wanting to go into no more negotiations but giving himself a little more time to think. “Whose business is it then?” asked the lawyer in an exhausted voice as he leant back again. “My nephew’s,” said K.’s uncle, “and I’ve brought him along with me.” And he introduced him, “Chief Clerk Josef K.” “Oh!” said the invalid, now with much more life in him, and reached out his hand towards K. “Do forgive me, I didn’t notice you there at all.” Then he then said to his carer, “Leni, go,” stretching his hand out to her as if this were a farewell that would have to last for a long time. This time the girl offered no resistance. “So you,” he finally said to K.’s uncle, who had also calmed down and stepped closer, “you haven’t come to visit me because I’m ill but you’ve come on business.” The lawyer now looked so much stronger that it seemed the idea of being visited because he was ill had somehow made him weak, he remained supporting himself of one elbow, which must have been rather tiring, and continually pulled at a lock of hair in the middle of his beard. “You already look much better,” said K.’s uncle, “now that that witch has gone outside.” He interrupted himself, whispered, “I bet you she’s listening!” and sprang over to the door. But behind the door there was no-one, K.’s uncle came back not disappointed, as her not listening seemed to him worse than if she had been, but probably somewhat embittered. “You’re mistaken about her,” said the lawyer, but did nothing more to defend her; perhaps that was his way of indicating that she did not need defending. But in a tone that was much more committed he went on, “As far as your nephew’s affairs are concerned, this will be an extremely difficult undertaking and I’d count myself lucky if my strength lasted out long enough for it; I’m greatly afraid it won’t do, but anyway I don’t want to leave anything untried; if I don’t last out you can always get somebody else. To be honest, this matters interests me too much, and I can’t bring myself to give up the chance of taking some part in it. If my heart does totally give out then at least it will have found a worthy affair to fail in.” K. believed he understood not a word of this entire speech, he looked at his uncle for an explanation but his uncle sat on the bedside table with the candle in his hand, a medicine bottle had rolled off the table onto the floor, he nodded to everything the lawyer said, agreed to everything, and now and then looked at K. urging him to show the same compliance. Maybe K.’s uncle had already told the lawyer about the trial. But that was impossible, everything that had happened so far spoke against it. So he said, “I don’t understand … “ “Well, maybe I’ve misunderstood what you’ve been saying,” said the lawyer, just as astonished and embarrassed as K. “Perhaps I’ve been going too fast. What was it you wanted to speak to me about? I thought it was to do with your trial.” “Of course it is,” said K.’s uncle, who then asked K., “So what is it you want?” “Yes, but how is it that you know anything about me and my case?” asked K. “Oh, I see,” said the lawyer with a smile. “I am a lawyer, I move in court circles, people talk about various different cases and the more interesting ones stay in your mind, especially when they concern the nephew of a friend. There’s nothing very remarkable about that.” “What is it you want, then?” asked K.’s uncle once more, “You seem so uneasy about it” “You move in this court’s circles?” asked K. “Yes,” said the lawyer. “You’re asking questions like a child,” said K.’s uncle. “What circles should I move in, then, if not with members of my own discipline?” the lawyer added. It sounded so indisputable that K. gave no answer at all. “But you work in the High Court, not that court in the attic,” he had wanted to say but could not bring himself to actually utter it. “You have to realise,” the lawyer continued, in a tone as if he were explaining something obvious, unnecessary and incidental, “you have to realise that I also derive great advantage for my clients from mixing with those people, and do so in many different ways, it’s not something you can keep talking about all the time. I’m at a bit of a disadvantage now, of course, because of my illness, but I still get visits from some good friends of mine at the court and I learn one or two things. It might even be that I learn more than many of those who are in the best of health and spend all day in court. And I’m receiving a very welcome visit right now, for instance.” And he pointed into a dark corner of the room. “Where?” asked K., almost uncouth in his surprise. He looked round uneasily; the little candle gave off far too little light to reach as far as the wall opposite. And then, something did indeed begin to move there in the corner. In the light of the candle held up by K.’s uncle an elderly gentleman could be seen sitting beside a small table. He had been sitting there for so long without being noticed that he could hardly have been breathing. Now he stood up with a great deal of fuss, clearly unhappy that attention had been drawn to him. It was as if, by flapping his hands about like short wings, he hoped to deflect any introductions and greetings, as if he wanted on no account to disturb the others by his presence and seemed to be exhorting them to leave him back in the dark and forget about his being there. That, however, was something that could no longer be granted him. “You took us by surprise, you see,” said the lawyer in explanation, cheerfully indicating to the gentleman that he should come closer, which, slowly, hesitatingly, looking all around him, but with a certain dignity, he did. “The office director oh, yes, forgive me, I haven’t introduced you this is my friend Albert K., this is his nephew, the chief clerk Josef K., and this is the office director so, the office director was kind enough to pay me a visit. It’s only possible to appreciate just how valuable a visit like this is if you’ve been let into the secret of what a pile of work the office director has heaped over him. Well, he came anyway, we were having a peaceful chat, as far as I was able when I’m so weak, and although we hadn’t told Leni she mustn’t let anyone in as we weren’t expecting anyone, we still would rather have remained alone, but then along came you, Albert, thumping your fists on the door, the office director moved over into the corner pulling his table and chair with him, but now it turns out we might have, that is, if that’s what you wish, we might have something to discuss with each other and it would be good if we can all come back together again. Office director … , “ he said with his head on one side, pointing with a humble smile to an armchair near the bed. “I’m afraid I’ll only be able to stay a few minutes more,” smiled the office director as he spread himself out in the armchair and looked at the clock. “Business calls. But I wouldn’t want to miss the chance of meeting a friend of my friend.” He inclined his head slightly toward K.’s uncle, who seemed very happy with his new acquaintance, but he was not the sort of person to express his feelings of deference and responded to the office director’s words with embarrassed, but loud, laughter. A horrible sight! K. was able to quietly watch everything as nobody paid any attention to him, the office director took over as leader of the conversation as seemed to be his habit once he had been called forward, the lawyer listened attentively with his hand to his ear, his initial weakness having perhaps only had the function of driving away his new visitors, K.’s uncle served as candle-bearer balancing the candle on his thigh while the office director frequently glanced nervously at it and was soon free of his embarrassment and was quickly enchanted not only by the office director’s speaking manner but also by the gentle, waving hand-movements with which he accompanied it. K., leaning against the bedpost, was totally ignored by the office director, perhaps deliberately, and served the old man only as audience. And besides, he had hardly any idea what the conversation was about and his thoughts soon turned to the care assistant and the ill treatment she had suffered from his uncle. Soon after, he began to wonder whether he had not seen the office director somewhere before, perhaps among the people who were at his first hearing. He may have been mistaken, but thought the office director might well have been among the old gentlemen with the thin beards in the first row.
他们一打招呼，K. 就邀请他坐在扶手椅上，但卡尔叔叔没有时间，他说他想与 K. 私下简短地谈谈。 “这是必要的，”他疲惫地咽了口口水说，“为了我内心的平静，这是必要的。” K. 立即将初级工作人员从房间里派出去，并告诉他们不让任何人进来。“我听到的是什么，约瑟夫？”当他们单独在一起时，K的叔叔喊道，他坐在桌子上，把各种文件塞在身下，看也不看它们，以使自己更舒服。 K.什么也没说，他知道接下来会发生什么，但是，突然从他一直在做的工作的努力中解脱出来，他感到一种愉快的倦怠，看着窗外的街道另一边。从他坐的地方，他只能看到一小部分三角形的部分，是两个商店橱窗之间房屋空墙的一部分。 “你在盯着窗外看！”他的叔叔举起双臂喊道：“看在上帝的份上，约瑟夫，给我一个答案！这是真的吗，真的可以吗？” “卡尔叔叔，”K说着，从白日梦中挣脱出来，“我真的不知道你想要我做什么。” “约瑟夫，”叔叔用警告的语气说道，“据我所知，你一直说的是实话。我应该把你刚才说的话当成一个不好的信号吗？” “我想我知道你想要什么，”K. 顺从地说，“我想你已经听说过我的审判了。” “是的，”叔叔缓缓点头，“我听说了你的审判。” “那你是从谁那里听来的？” K问道。“尔娜写信给我，”他的叔叔说，“她和你没有太多联系，是的，我不敢说，你不太关注她，但她了解到尽管如此。我今天收到了她的信，当然，我就直接来这里了。 没有其他原因，但在我看来，这就是足够的理由。我可以把信中与你有关的部分读给你听。”他从钱包里拿出信。 “这里是。她写道； “我已经很久没见到约瑟夫了，上周我在银行，但约瑟夫太忙了，他们不让我过去；我在那里等了将近一个小时，但后来我不得不回家，因为我要上钢琴课。我很想和他谈谈，也许下次还有机会。他在我的命名日送了我一大盒巧克力，他非常友善和细心。我写信的时候忘了告诉你这件事，现在我才记得你问过我这件事。我相信你知道，巧克力在这间宿舍里立刻就消失了，几乎一旦你知道有人给了你巧克力，它就消失了。但我还想告诉你一些关于约瑟夫的事。就像我说的，他们不让我去银行见他，因为当时他正在和一位绅士谈判。我静静地等待了很长一段时间后，我问一位工作人员他的会议是否会持续更长的时间。他说这很可能会发生，因为这可能与针对他进行的法律诉讼有关。我问首席书记员正在接受什么样的法律诉讼，他是否没有犯任何错误，但他说他没有犯任何错误，正在进行法律诉讼，甚至他们是关于一些相当重要的事情。很严重，但他不知道更多了。 他本想为书记官本人提供一些帮助，因为书记官是一位绅士，善良而诚实，但他不知道自己能做什么，只是希望有一些有影响力的绅士能够帮助他。站在他一边。我相信这就是将会发生的事情，一切最终都会向最好的方向发展，但与此同时，事情看起来并不好，这一点从书记官本人的心情就可以看出。当然，我并没有太重视这次谈话，甚至还尽力让银行职员安心，他是个很简单的人。我告诉他不要和任何人谈论此事，我认为这只是谣言，但我仍然认为，亲爱的父亲，如果您下次来访时调查此事，可能会更好。你会很容易找到更多细节，如果确实有必要，可以通过你认识的伟大而有影响力的人来做一些事情。但如果没有必要，而且这似乎是最有可能的，那么至少你的女儿很快就会有机会拥抱你，我很期待。’她是个好孩子，”当K.的叔叔说。读完了，擦了擦眼角的泪水。 K.点点头。由于最近发生了各种各样的干扰，他完全忘记了埃尔娜，甚至忘记了她的生日，而巧克力的故事显然只是为了不让他的姑妈和叔叔惹上麻烦而编造出来的。很感动，就连从此以后定期寄给她的戏票也不足以报答她，但现在他实在不觉得去她的住处看望她是合适的。并与一个十八岁的小女学生交谈。 “对此你有什么要说的吗？”叔叔问道，他已经忘记了读信时的匆忙和兴奋，似乎还想再读一遍。 “是的，叔叔，”K说，“确实如此。” “真的！”叫了他叔叔。 “什么是真的？这怎么可能是真的呢？这是怎样的审判？我希望不是刑事审判？” “这是一场刑事审判，”K 回答道，“当刑事审判挂在你的脖子上时，你却安静地坐在这里？”他叔叔喊道，声音越来越大。 “我越冷静，结果就越好，”K用疲倦的声音说道，“别担心。” “我怎么能不担心呢？！”他叔叔喊道：“约瑟夫，我亲爱的约瑟夫，想想你自己，想想你的家人，想想我们的好名声！到现在为止，你一直是我们的骄傲，现在不要成为我们的耻辱。我不喜欢你的行为方式，”他歪着头看着K，说道，“一个无辜的人在受到指控时不会有这样的行为，如果他还有一点力量的话，就不会这样。 。请告诉我这一切是怎么回事，以便我可以帮助您。我想这和银行有关系吧？” “不，”K.站起来说道，“叔叔，你说话太大声了，我估计有一名工作人员正在门口偷听，我觉得这很不愉快。我们最好去别的地方，这样我就可以尽力回答你所有的问题。我非常清楚，我必须为我所做的事向家人负责。” “你当然知道！”他的叔叔喊道：“没错，你就是这么做的。现在就行动吧，约瑟夫，快点！” “我还有一些文件需要准备，”K. 说道，并使用对讲机召唤了几分钟后进来的副手。 K.的叔叔仍然生气又兴奋，用手示意K. 尽管没有任何必要，但还是召唤了他。 K.站在办公桌前，用平静的声音并利用各种文件，向年轻男子解释了当天他不在的情况下需要做的事情，年轻男子平静而专注地听着。事情发生时，K. 的叔叔在场，这令人非常不安。他没有听别人说什么，但一开始他站在那里，睁大眼睛，紧张地咬着嘴唇。然后他开始在房间里走来走去，时不时地在窗户前停下来，或者站在一幅画前，总是发出各种感叹，比如“这对我来说完全无法理解！”或者“现在告诉我，你对此有何看法？！”年轻人假装没有注意到这一切，将K.的吩咐听完，做了一些笔记，向K.和他的叔叔鞠了一躬，然后离开了房间。 K的叔叔背对着他，看着窗外，伸出双手把窗帘卷起来。门刚关上，他就喊道：“终于来了！”既然他不再跳来跳去了，我们也可以走了！”到了银行前厅，几名工作人员站在那里，这时副行长正走过来，不幸的是，没有办法阻止K叔叔不断地询问有关银行的问题。审判。 “那么，约瑟夫，”他开始说道，在他们经过时轻轻地向周围的人鞠躬，“告诉我关于这次审判的一切；这是怎样的审判？” K.说了几句话，传达的信息很少，甚至还笑了几句，直到他们走到前面的台阶上，他才向叔叔解释说，他不想在那些人面前公开说话。 “完全正确，”他叔叔说，“但现在开始说话吧。”他把头偏向一侧，不耐烦地短促地吸着雪茄，听着。 “首先，叔叔，”K. 说，“这不是一场像普通法庭那样的审判。” “更糟的是，”他叔叔说。 “怎么样？” K看着他问道。 “我的意思是，情况变得更糟，”他重复道。他们站在银行前面的台阶上。门卫似乎在听他们说话。K.把他的叔叔拉得更远，他们融入了街道的喧嚣。他的叔叔挽着K的手臂，不再急切地询问有关审判的问题，他们沉默地走了一会儿。 “但这一切是怎么发生的呢？”他最终问道，突然停下来，吓到了后面走的人，他们不得不避免撞到他。 “这种事情不是突然发生的，而是很久以前就开始发展的，一定有预兆，你为什么不写信给我？你知道我会为你做任何事，在某种程度上我仍然是你的监护人，直到今天这是我感到自豪的事情。我还是会帮你的，当然会，只是现在，现在已经开庭审理了，就很难了。但是无所谓;现在最好的事情是您在乡下和我们一起度过一个短暂的假期。你减肥了，我现在可以看到。乡村生活会给你力量，那很好，前面肯定有很多艰苦的工作。但除此之外，在某种程度上，这也是让你远离法庭的一种方式。 在这里，他们拥有一切手段来展示他们所掌握的权力，并且他们自然而然地会使用这些权力来对付你；在国内，他们要么必须将权力委托给不同的机构，要么只是试图通过信件、电报或电话来骚扰你。这肯定会削弱效果，它不会让你摆脱它们，但会给你喘息的空间。” “你可以禁止我离开，”K. 说，他被叔叔所说的话稍微吸引住了。 “我没想到你会这样做，”叔叔若有所思地说，“搬走不会让你失去太多力量。” K.抓住他叔叔的胳膊，不让他停下来，说道：“我以为你会认为这一切都不如我重要，但现在你却这么难受。” “约瑟夫，”舅舅喊道，试图挣脱他的束缚，让他不再走，但K.却没有放手，“你完全变了，以前那么精明，现在失去了吗？你想输掉审判吗？你知道这意味着什么吗？那意味着你会被彻底摧毁。你认识的每个人都会和你一起被拉倒，或者至少被羞辱，被羞辱到地上。约瑟夫，振作起来。你对此如此漠不关心，这让我发疯。看着你，我几乎相信那句老话：‘经历过这样的考验，就意味着失去这样的考验’。” “我亲爱的叔叔，”K说，“激动是没有任何好处的，你这样做没有好处，我这样做也没有好处。这个案子不会因为兴奋而获胜，请承认我的实践经验很重要，就像我一直并且仍然尊重你的经历一样，即使它让我感到惊讶。 你说家庭也会受到这次审判的影响；我真的不明白该怎么做，但这不是重点，我很愿意在这一切中遵循你的指示。只是，我不认为留在这个国家有任何好处，即使对你来说也是如此，因为这会意味着逃跑和内疚感。而且，虽然我留在城里会更容易受到迫害，但在这里我也能更好地推动事情的发展。” “你说得对，”他叔叔的语气似乎表明他们终于变得更加亲近，“我只是提出这个建议，因为据我所知，如果你留在城里，案子就会被搁置。”由于你对此的漠不关心而处于危险之中，我认为我为你做这项工作会更好。但你会全力以赴去推动事情的发展吗？如果是的话，那自然会好得多。” “那么我们就达成一致了，”K 说，“那么你对我下一步应该做什么有什么建议吗？” “嗯，我自然要考虑一下，”舅舅说道，“你要记住，我在乡下已经生活了二十年了，几乎没有休息过，你已经失去了处理事情的能力了。”诸如此类的事情。但我确实与几个人有一些重要的联系，我希望他们比我更了解这些事情，与他们联系是理所当然的。在国内，我的状态一直不佳，我相信你已经意识到了这一点。只有在这样的时候你自己才会注意到。你的这件事很大程度上出乎我的意料，尽管奇怪的是，我在读了埃尔娜的信后就预料到会发生这样的事情，今天当我看到你的脸时，我几乎完全确定了这一点。但顺便说一句，现在重要的是，我们不能浪费时间。” 说话间，K的舅舅已经踮起脚尖去叫出租车，拉着K上了自己身后的车，一边向司机喊着地址。 “我们现在要去见律师胡尔德博士，”他说，“我们当时一起在学校。我相信你知道这个名字，不是吗？不？嗯，这很奇怪。作为辩护律师和与穷人合作，他享有很高的声誉。但我特别尊敬他，认为他是一个值得信赖的人。” “无论你做什么，我都没关系，”K. 说，尽管他对叔叔处理这件事的匆忙和紧急方式感到不安。作为被告，为穷人请律师并不令人鼓舞。 “我不知道，”他说，“你可以在这样的事情上聘请律师。” “当然可以，”他叔叔说，“这是不言而喻的。你为什么不请律师呢？现在，为了让我在这件事上得到适当的指示，请告诉我到目前为止发生了什么。” K.立即开始向他的叔叔讲述所发生的事情，毫无保留地向他完全敞开心扉，这是K.可以抗议他叔叔认为审判是一个巨大耻辱的唯一方式。他只顺便提到了一次伯斯特纳小姐的名字，但这并没有削弱他对审判的开放态度，因为伯斯特纳小姐与此案没有任何关系。说话间，他向窗外望去，发现就在这时，距离法院所在的郊区已经越来越近了。他提请叔叔注意这一点，但他并不认为这种巧合有什么特别之处。出租车停在一座昏暗的大楼前。 K.叔叔敲响了底层的第一扇门；当他们等待的时候，他微笑着，露出他的大牙，低声说道：“八点钟；”这不是通常会见律师的时间，但赫尔德不会介意我这么做。”门上的窥视窗里出现了两只黑色的大眼睛，盯着两个来访者看了一会儿，然后就消失了；然而门没有打开。 K.和他的叔叔互相确认他们看到了那两只眼睛。 “新来的女佣，害怕陌生人。”K的叔叔说道，又敲了敲门。眼睛再次出现。这一次，他们看起来几乎是悲伤的，但是在他们头顶附近燃烧的开放式气体火焰发出嘶嘶声，几乎没有发出任何光芒，这可能只是造成了一种幻觉。 “开门，”K的叔叔举起拳头喊道，“我们是律师胡尔德博士的朋友！” “博士。胡尔德病了。”身后有人小声说道。一条狭窄通道尽头的门口站着一个穿着晨衣的男人，用极其安静的声音向他们通报这一信息。 K的叔叔已经因为漫长的等待而生气了，猛地转过身来反驳道：“生病了？你说他有病？”他以一种近乎威胁的方式大步走向这位绅士，就好像他就是病人一样。 “现在，他们已经为你开门了，”这位绅士指着律师的门说道。他把晨衣拉到一起就消失了。门确实被打开了，一个年轻的女孩K. 认出了她穿着长长的白色围裙，手里拿着一支蜡烛，黑色的、略显外凸的眼睛站在走廊里。 “下次，早点开门！” “K.的叔叔没有打招呼，而是说道，而女孩则微微行了屈膝礼。 “来吧，约瑟夫，”然后他对 K. 说道，K. 正慢慢地朝女孩走去。 “博士。 “赫尔德身体不舒服。”女孩说道，K的叔叔没有停下来，冲向一扇门。 K继续惊讶地看着女孩，她转身挡住了进客厅的路，她有一张像小狗一样圆圆的脸，不仅脸颊苍白，下巴圆，太阳穴和发际线也圆。 。 “约瑟夫！”他又给叔叔打电话，问女孩：“他的心脏有问题，是吗？” “我想是的，先生，”女孩说，她现在已经抽出时间拿着蜡烛，打开了房间的门。房间的一角，烛光照不到的地方，一张留着长胡子的脸从床上抬起头来。 “莱妮，谁进来了？”律师问道，他被蜡烛弄得眼花缭乱，无法认出他的客人。 “这是你的老朋友，艾伯特，”K. 的叔叔说。 “噢，艾伯特，”律师说着，倒回枕头上，仿佛这次拜访意味着他不需要再装腔作势了。 “事情真的有那么糟糕吗？”坐在床边的K叔叔问道。 “我不相信是这样。这是你的心脏病复发了，它会像其他时候一样过去。” “也许吧，”律师平静地说，“但是这和以前一样麻烦。我几乎无法呼吸，根本无法入睡，而且身体一天比一天虚弱。” “我明白了，”K. 的叔叔说，用大手将巴拿马帽牢牢地按在膝盖上。 “这是个坏消息。但您得到了正确的护理吗？这里太压抑了，太黑了。距离我上次来这里已有很长时间了，但那时对我来说似乎更友好。就连你们这里的小姐，看上去也没什么生气，除非她是装的。”女仆还拿着蜡烛站在门口。据我们所知，她正在注视着K。 不仅仅是当他叔叔还在谈论她时，她还在注视着他。 K靠在一张他推到女孩身边的椅子上。 “当你像我一样病的时候，”律师说，“你需要平静。我不觉得这令人沮丧。”短暂的停顿后，他补充道，“莱妮把我照顾得很好，她是个好女孩。”但这还不足以说服K.的叔叔，他明显反对他朋友的照顾者，尽管他没有反驳这位病人，但当她走到床边，把蜡烛点上时，他用怒容逼迫她。床头柜上，俯身在床上，整理枕头，对他大惊小怪。 K. 的叔叔差点忘记了需要对那个卧病在床的男人表示任何关心，他站起来，在护理人员身后走来走去，如果他抓住了她的裙子，K. 也不会感到惊讶。走到她身后，将她从床上拖了起来。 K.本人平静地看着，他甚至没有因为发现律师身体不适而感到失望，他无法采取任何措施来反对他叔叔对此事所产生的热情，他很高兴这种热情现在已经在没有他的情况下被分散了。对此采取任何行动。舅舅大概是想冒犯律师的服务员，便说道：“小姐，你先别打扰我们一会儿，我有一些私事要和我的朋友商量。”胡尔德医生的护理人员仍然远远地靠在病人的床上，正在抚平覆盖在床边墙上的布，她只是转过头，然后，与K.叔叔先是无法说话，然后是愤怒形成了鲜明的对比。 ” 滔滔不绝地说出这句话，她很平静地说道：“你看，赫尔德医生病得很重，根本无法讨论任何事情。” 也许只是为了方便，她重复了K叔叔的话，但旁观者甚至可能认为这是在嘲笑他，他当然跳了起来，就像刚刚被刺伤一样。 。 “你该死……”在他兴奋的第一声咕噜声中，他的话几乎听不懂，K.尽管一直期待着类似的事情，但还是被吓了一跳，跑到他叔叔身边，毫无疑问，他是想闭上嘴。用双手。不过幸好，在女孩身后，病人站了起来，K叔叔的脸色难看，像是吞下了什么恶心的东西，然后平静了几分说道：“我们自然没有失去理智，还没有；如果我所要求的不可能实现，我就不会要求它。现在请你走吧！”护理人员在床边站直，正对着 K. 的叔叔，K. 认为他注意到她用一只手抚摸着律师的手。 “你可以在莱妮面前说任何话。”病人说道，语气中明显带有恳求的意味。 “这不关我的事，”K. 的叔叔说，“这也不是我的秘密。”他扭过身子，似乎不想再进行谈判，而是给自己多一点时间思考。 “那是谁的事？”律师再次向后靠去，用疲惫的声音问道。 “我侄子的，”K的叔叔说，“我把他也带来了。”他介绍说：“首席书记员约瑟夫·K。” “哦！” “请原谅我，我根本没有注意到你在那儿。”病人现在有了更多的活力，他向K伸出了手。然后他对照顾者说：“莱妮，走吧”，并向她伸出了手，仿佛这是一场要持续很长时间的告别。这一次，女孩没有做出任何反抗。 “所以你，”他最后对 K 说道。舅舅也冷静下来，凑近了一步，“你不是因为我病才来看我的，是有事过来的。”律师现在看起来坚强多了，似乎因为生病而被拜访的想法让他变得虚弱，他仍然用一只手肘支撑着自己，这一定相当累人，并不断地拉着头发中的一绺头发。他的胡子中间。 “既然那个女巫已经出去了，”K的叔叔说，“你看起来已经好多了。”他打断了自己的话，低声说道：“我敢打赌她在听！”然后跳到门口。但门后空无一人，K.的叔叔回来时并不失望，因为在他看来，她的不听似乎比她听更糟糕，但可能有些怨恨。 “你对她的看法是错误的，”律师说，但没有采取任何行动来为她辩护。也许这是他表明她不需要辩护的方式。但他的语气却更加坚定了：“就你侄子的事情而言，这将是一件极其困难的事情，如果我的体力能坚持得足够久，我就很幸运了；我非常担心这行不通，但无论如何我不想留下任何未尝试过的事情；如果我不能坚持下去，你总是可以找到其他人。说实话，这件事让我太感兴趣了，我无法放弃参与其中的机会。如果我的心真的彻底崩溃了，那么至少它会找到一件值得失败的事情。” K. 相信他整个演讲一个字都听不懂，他看向叔叔寻求解释，但叔叔坐在床头柜上，手里拿着蜡烛，一个药瓶从桌子上滚到了地板上，他点点头。律师说，同意一切，时不时地看着K，敦促他表现出同样的顺从。也许K.的叔叔已经把审判的事情告诉了律师。但这是不可能的，迄今为止发生的一切都证明了这一点。于是他说：“我不明白……” “好吧，也许我误解了你所说的，”律师说道，他和 K 一样感到惊讶和尴尬。“也许我说得太快了。你想跟我谈什么？我以为这和你的审判有关。” “当然是这样，”K.的叔叔说，然后他问K.，“那你想要什么？” “是的，但是你怎么会知道我和我的案子呢？” K问道。“哦，我明白了，”律师微笑着说。 “我是一名律师，我在法庭圈子里活动，人们谈论各种不同的案件，而更有趣的案件会留在你的脑海中，尤其是当它们涉及朋友的侄子时。这并没有什么特别了不起的。” “那你想要什么？” “你好像很不安。”K叔叔又问，“你在这个宫廷的圈子里活动？” K问道。“是的，”律师说。 “你问问题的方式就像个孩子，”K. 的叔叔说。 “那么，如果不和我自己学科的成员一起，我应该进入什么圈子呢？”律师补充道。这听起来是无可争议的，K.根本没有给出答案。 “但你在高等法院工作，而不是在阁楼上的法院，”他想说，但无法让自己真正说出来。 “你必须意识到，”律师继续说道，语气仿佛是在解释一些显而易见的、不必要的和偶然的事情，“你必须意识到，我也从与这些人交往中为我的客户获得了巨大的优势，并且这样做是为了让我的客户受益匪浅。”有很多不同的方式，这不是你可以一直谈论的事情。当然，由于我的病，我现在处于一些不利的地位，但我仍然会得到法庭上一些好朋友的拜访，我学到了一两件事。甚至可能我比许多身体健康、整天在法庭上度过的人学到的更多。例如，我现在受到了非常受欢迎的访问。”他指着房间的一个黑暗角落。 “在哪里？” K问道，他惊讶得几乎有些不礼貌。他不安地环顾四周。小蜡烛发出的光太少，无法到达对面的墙壁。然后，角落里确实有什么东西开始移动。在K叔叔举起的蜡烛的光里，可以看到一位年长的绅士坐在一张小桌子旁边。他坐在那里太久了，没有人注意到他几乎无法呼吸。现在他大惊小怪地站了起来，显然很不高兴自己的注意力被吸引了。就好像他希望通过像短翅膀一样拍动双手来转移任何介绍和问候，仿佛他不想因为自己的存在而打扰其他人，似乎在劝告他们不要把他留在黑暗中。并忘记他的存在。然而，这已经是他无法再得到的了。 “你让我们大吃一惊，你看，”律师解释道，高兴地向这位绅士示意他应该走近一些，他慢慢地、犹豫地环顾四周，但带着一定的尊严，还是这么做了。 “办公室主任哦，对了，原谅我，我还没介绍你，这是我的朋友Albert K.，这是他的侄子，首席文员Josef K.，这是办公室主任，所以，办公室主任很友善足够来拜访我了。只有当你了解了办公室主任为他做的大量工作的秘密后，你才能体会到这样的访问有多么有价值。好吧，无论如何他还是来了，我们正在平静地聊天，尽我所能，当我如此虚弱时，虽然我们没有告诉莱妮她不能让任何人进来，因为我们不期待任何人，我们还是宁愿一个人待着，但后来你来了，阿尔伯特，用拳头敲门，办公室主任拉着桌子和椅子走到角落里，但现在事实证明我们可能有，也就是说，如果这是你的意愿，我们可能会互相讨论一些事情，如果我们能再次聚在一起那就太好了。办公室主任……”他侧着头，谦虚地微笑着指着床边的一张扶手椅说道。 “恐怕只能再呆几分钟了。”办公室主任微笑着躺在扶手椅上，看了看时钟。 “业务来电。但我不想错过与我朋友的朋友见面的机会。”他向K的叔叔微微歪了歪头，K的叔叔似乎对他的新相识感到很高兴，但他并不是那种会表达敬意的人，他以尴尬但大声的笑声回应了办公室主任的话。 可怕的景象！ K.能够安静地看着一切，没有人注意到他，办公室主任在被叫到前头时就接过了谈话的主导权，这似乎是他的习惯，律师用手捂着耳朵聚精会神地听着，他最初的弱点也许只是赶走了他的新访客，K.的叔叔担任烛台，平衡着他大腿上的蜡烛，而办公室主任经常紧张地瞥了一眼，很快就摆脱了尴尬，很快，他不仅被办公室主任的说话方式迷住了，还被他伴随的温柔的挥手动作迷住了。 K.靠在床柱上，完全被办公室主任忽视了，也许是故意的，只是作为观众来招待老人。此外，他几乎不知道谈话的内容，他的思绪很快就转向了护理助理和她遭受叔叔的虐待。不久之后，他开始怀疑自己是否曾在某个地方见过办公室主任，也许是在第一次听证会的人中。他可能错了，但他认为办公室主任很可能是第一排留着稀疏胡须的老先生之一。

There was then a noise that everyone heard from the hallway as if something of porcelain were being broken. “I’ll go and see what’s happened,” said K., who slowly left the room as if giving the others the chance to stop him. He had hardly stepped into the hallway, finding his bearings in the darkness with his hand still firmly holding the door, when another small hand, much smaller than K.’s own, placed itself on his and gently shut the door. It was the carer who had been waiting there. “Nothing has happened,” she whispered to him, “I just threw a plate against the wall to get you out of there.” “I was thinking about you, as well,” replied K. uneasily. “So much the better,” said the carer. “Come with me”. A few steps along, they came to a frosted glass door which the carer opened for him. “Come in here,” she said. It was clearly the lawyer’s office, fitted out with old, heavy furniture, as far as could be seen in the moonlight which now illuminated just a small, rectangular section of the floor by each of the three big windows. “This way,” said the carer, pointing to a dark trunk with a carved, wooden backrest. When he had sat down, K. continued to look round the room, it was a large room with a high ceiling, the clients of this lawyer for the poor must have felt quite lost in it. K. thought he could see the little steps with which visitors would approach the massive desk. But then he forgot about all of this and had eyes only for the carer who sat very close beside him, almost pressing him against the armrest. “I did think,” she said “you would come out here to me by yourself with me having to call you first. It was odd. First you stare at me as soon as you come in, and then you keep me waiting. And you ought to call me Leni, too,” she added quickly and suddenly, as if no moment of this conversation should be lost. “Gladly,” said K. “But as for its being odd, Leni, that’s easy to explain. Firstly, I had to listen to what the old men were saying and couldn’t leave without a good reason, but secondly I’m not a bold person, if anything I’m quite shy, and you, Leni, you didn’t really look like you could be won over in one stroke, either.” “That’s not it,” said Leni, laying one arm on the armrest and looking at K., “you didn’t like me, and I don’t suppose you like me now, either.” “Liking wouldn’t be very much,” said K., evasively. “Oh!” she exclaimed with a smile, thus making use of K.’s comment to gain an advantage over him. So K. remained silent for a while. By now, he had become used to the darkness in the room and was able to make out various fixtures and fittings. He was especially impressed by a large picture hanging to the right of the door, he leant forward in order to see it better. It depicted a man wearing a judge’s robes; he was sitting on a lofty throne gilded in a way that shone forth from the picture. The odd thing about the picture was that this judge was not sitting there in dignified calm but had his left arm pressed against the back and armrest, his right arm, however, was completely free and only grasped the armrest with his hand, as if about to jump up any moment in vigorous outrage and make some decisive comment or even to pass sentence. The accused was probably meant to be imagined at the foot of the steps, the top one of which could be seen in the picture, covered with a yellow carpet. “That might be my judge,” said K., pointing to the picture with one finger. “I know him,” said Leni looking up at the picture, “he comes here quite often. That picture is from when he was young, but he can never have looked anything like it, as he’s tiny, minute almost. But despite that, he had himself made to look bigger in the picture as he’s madly vain, just like everyone round here. But even I’m vain and that makes me very unhappy that you don’t like me.” K. replied to that last comment merely by embracing Leni and drawing her towards him, she lay her head quietly on his shoulder. To the rest of it, though, he said, “What rank is he?” “He’s an examining judge,” she said, taking hold of the hand with which K. held her and playing with his fingers. “Just an examining judge once again,” said K. in disappointment, “the senior officials keep themselves hidden. But here he is sitting on a throne.” “That’s all just made up,” said Leni with her face bent over K.’s hand, “really he’s sitting on a kitchen chair with an old horse blanket folded over it. But do you have to be always thinking about your trial?” she added slowly. “No, not at all,” said K., “I probably even think too little about it.” “That’s not the mistake you’re making,” said Leni, “you’re too unyielding, that’s what I’ve heard.” “Who said that?” asked K., he felt her body against his chest and looked down on her rich, dark, tightly-bound hair. “I’d be saying too much if I told you that,” answered Leni. “Please don’t ask for names, but do stop making these mistakes of yours, stop being so unyielding, there’s nothing you can do to defend yourself from this court, you have to confess. So confess to them as soon as you get the chance. It’s only then that they give you the chance to get away, not till then. Only, without help from outside even that’s impossible, but you needn’t worry about getting this help as I want to help you myself.” “You understand a lot about this court and what sort of tricks are needed,” said K. as he lifted her, since she was pressing in much too close to him, onto his lap. “That’s alright, then,” she said, and made herself comfortable on his lap by smoothing out her skirt and adjusting her blouse. Then she hung both her arms around his neck, leant back and took a long look at him. “And what if I don’t confess, could you not help me then?” asked K. to test her out. I’m accumulating women to help me, he thought to himself almost in amazement, first Miss Burstner, then the court usher’s wife, and now this little care assistant who seems to have some incomprehensible need for me. The way she sits on my lap as if it were her proper place! “No,” answered Leni, slowly shaking her head, “I couldn’t help you then. But you don’t want my help anyway, it means nothing to you, you’re too stubborn and won’t be persuaded.” Then, after a while she asked, “Do you have a lover?” “No,” said K. “Oh, you must have,” she said. “Well, I have really,” said K. “Just think, I’ve even betrayed her while I’m carrying her photograph with me.” Leni insisted he show her a photograph of Elsa, and then, hunched on his lap, studied the picture closely. The photograph was not one that had been taken while Elsa was posing for it, it showed her just after she had been in a wild dance such as she liked to do in wine bars, her skirt was still flung out as she span round, she had placed her hands on her firm hips and, with her neck held taut, looked to one side with a laugh; you could not see from the picture whom her laugh was intended for. “She’s very tightly laced,” said Leni, pointing to the place where she thought this could be seen. “I don’t like her, she’s clumsy and crude. But maybe she’s gentle and friendly towards you, that’s the impression you get from the picture. Big, strong girls like that often don’t know how to be anything but gentle and friendly. Would she be capable of sacrificing herself for you, though?” “No,” said K., “she isn’t gentle or friendly, and nor would she be capable of sacrificing herself for me. But I’ve never yet asked any of those things of her. I’ve never looked at this picture as closely as you.” “You can’t think much of her, then,” said Leni. “She can’t be your lover after all.” “Yes she is,” said K., “I’m not going to take my word back on that.” “Well she might be your lover now, then,” said Leni, “but you wouldn’t miss her much if you lost her or if you exchanged her for somebody else, me for instance.” “That is certainly conceivable,” said K. with a smile, “but she does have one major advantage over you, she knows nothing about my trial, and even if she did she wouldn’t think about it. She wouldn’t try to persuade me to be les unyielding.” “Well that’s no advantage,” said Leni. “If she’s got no advantage other than that, I can keep on hoping. Has she got any bodily defects?” “‘Bodily defects’?” asked K. “Yeah,” said Leni, “as I do have a bodily defect, just a little one. Look.” She spread the middle and ring fingers of her right hand apart from each other. Between those fingers the flap of skin connecting them reached up almost as far as the top joint of the little finger. In the darkness, K. did not see at first what it was she wanted to show him, so she led his hand to it so that he could feel. “What a freak of nature,” said K., and when he had taken a look at the whole hand he added, “What a pretty claw!” Leni looked on with a kind of pride as K. repeatedly opened and closed her two fingers in amazement, until, finally, he briefly kissed them and let go. “Oh!” she immediately exclaimed, “you kissed me!” Hurriedly, and with her mouth open, she clambered up K.’s lap with her knees. He was almost aghast as he looked up at her, now that she was so close to him there was a bitter, irritating smell from her, like pepper, she grasped his head, leant out over him, and bit and kissed his neck, even biting into his hair. “I’ve taken her place!” she exclaimed from time to time. “Just look, now you’ve taken me instead of her!” Just then, her knee slipped out and, with a little cry, she nearly fell down onto the carpet, K. tried to hold her by putting his arms around her and was pulled down with her. “Now you’re mine,” she said. Her last words to him as he left were, “Here’s the key to the door, come whenever you want”, and she planted an undirected kiss on his back. When he stepped out the front door there was a light rain falling, he was about to go to the middle of the street to see if he could still glimpse Leni at the window when K.’s uncle leapt out of a car that K., thinking of other things, had not seen waiting outside the building. He took hold of K. by both arms and shoved him against the door as if he wanted to nail him to it. “Young man,” he shouted, “how could you do a thing like that?! Things were going well with this business of yours, now you’ve caused it terrible damage. You slope of with some dirty, little thing who, moreover, is obviously the lawyer’s beloved, and stay away for hours. You don’t even try to find an excuse, don’t try to hide anything, no, you’re quite open about it, you run off with her and stay there. And meanwhile we’re sitting there, your uncle who’s going to such effort for you, the lawyer who needs to be won over to your side, and above all the office director, a very important gentleman who is in direct command of your affair in its present stage. We wanted to discuss how best to help you, I had to handle the lawyer very carefully, he had to handle the office director carefully, and you had most reason of all to at least give me some support. Instead of which you stay away. Eventually we couldn’t keep up the pretence any longer, but these are polite and highly capable men, they didn’t say anything about it so as to spare my feelings but in the end not even they could continue to force themselves and, as they couldn’t speak about the matter in hand, they became silent. We sat there for several minutes, listening to see whether you wouldn’t finally come back. All in vain. In the end the office director stood up, as he had stayed far longer than he had originally intended, made his farewell, looked at me in sympathy without being able to help, he waited at the door for a long time although it’s more than I can understand why he was being so good, and then he went. I, of course, was glad he’d gone, I’d been holding my breath all this time. All this had even more affect on the lawyer lying there ill, when I took my leave of him, the good man, he was quite unable to speak. You have probably contributed to his total collapse and so brought the very man who you are dependent on closer to his death. And me, your own uncle, you leave me here in the rain just feel this, I’m wet right through waiting here for hours, sick with worry.”
就在这时，走廊里传来一阵响动，仿佛有什么瓷器被打碎了。 “我去看看发生了什么事，”K.说着，慢慢地离开了房间，仿佛给其他人阻止他的机会。他刚踏进走廊，在黑暗中找到自己的方位，手仍然牢牢地握住门，另一只小手，比K的小得多的手，放在了他的手上，轻轻地关上了门。原来是那位护理人员一直在那里等着。 “什么也没发生，”她低声对他说，“我只是把一个盘子扔到墙上，让你离开那里。” “我也在想你。”K. 不安地回答。 “那就更好了，”护理人员说。 “跟我来”。走了几步，他们来到了一扇磨砂玻璃门前，护理人员为他打开了门。 “进来吧，”她说。这显然是律师的办公室，里面摆满了又旧又重的家具，从月光下看去，现在月光只照亮了三扇大窗户旁边一小块长方形的地板。 “这边走，”护理人员指着一个带有雕刻木靠背的黑色行李箱说道。坐下后，K.继续环视房间，房间很大，天花板很高，这位穷人律师的委托人肯定在里面感到很迷失。 K. 认为他可以看到访客走近那张巨大桌子的小台阶。但随后他就忘记了这一切，只顾着坐在他身边的护理人员，几乎把他压在了扶手上。 “我确实认为，”她说，“你会自己到我这里来，而我必须先给你打电话。这很奇怪。你一进来就先盯着我看，然后又让我等。 你也应该叫我莱妮。”她突然又快速地补充道，仿佛这次谈话的任何一个时刻都不应该错过。 “很高兴，”K说，“但是至于奇怪，莱妮，这很容易解释。首先，我必须听老人家的话，没有充分的理由不能离开，其次，我不是一个大胆的人，如果有的话，我很害羞，而你，莱妮，你没有看来你也能一口气被征服。” “不是这样的，”莱妮说，把一只手臂放在扶手上，看着K，“你不喜欢我，我想你现在也不喜欢我。” “不会太喜欢。”K. 闪烁其辞地说。 “哦！”她笑着喊道，从而利用K.的评论占了上风。于是K.沉默了一会儿。现在他已经习惯了房间里的黑暗，能够辨认出各种固定装置和配件。尤其令他印象深刻的是，门右侧挂着一幅大画，他身体前倾，以便看得更清楚。它描绘了一个穿着法官长袍的男人；他坐在高高的宝座上，宝座镀金，与照片上的光芒一模一样。画面中奇怪的是，这位法官并没有堂堂正正地坐在那里，而是将左臂压在靠背和扶手上，而右臂却完全自由，只用手抓住了扶手，仿佛在握着扶手。随时在强烈的愤怒中跳起来，做出一些决定性的评论，甚至宣判。被告可能被想象在台阶脚下，在照片中可以看到台阶的顶部，上面覆盖着黄色地毯。 “这可能是我的判断，”K. 用一根手指指着照片说道。 “我认识他，”莱妮抬头看着照片说道，“他经常来这里。 那张照片是他年轻时的照片，但他看起来绝对不像这样，因为他很小，几乎很小。但尽管如此，他还是让自己在照片中显得更大，因为他非常虚荣，就像这里的每个人一样。但即使是我也很虚荣，这让我很不高兴你不喜欢我。” K.仅仅拥抱了莱妮并将她拉向他，以回应最后的评论，她将头静静地靠在他的肩膀上。但对于剩下的问题，他说：“他是什么军衔？” “他是一名预审法官，”她说，握住K.握着她的手，玩弄着他的手指。 “又只是一名预审法官，”K. 失望地说，“高级官员都把自己隐藏起来。但他现在坐在王座上。” “这都是编造出来的，”莱妮说，她的脸伏在K.的手上，“他真的坐在厨房的椅子上，上面盖着一条旧马毯。但你必须时刻想着你的考验吗？”她慢慢地补充道。 “不，一点也不，”K说，“我什至可能想得太少了。” “这不是你犯的错误，”莱妮说，“你太不屈服了，我是这么听说的。” “谁说的？” K.问道，他感觉到她的身体贴在他的胸前，低头看着她浓密、深色、紧紧扎着的头发。 “如果我告诉你这些，我就说得太多了。”莱妮回答道。 “请不要问名字，但请不要再犯这些错误，不要再那么不屈服，在这个法庭上你没有办法为自己辩护，你必须认罪。所以一有机会就向他们表白。只有到那时他们才会给你逃跑的机会，而不是到那时。只是，如果没有外界的帮助，那也是不可能的，但是你不用担心得到这个帮助，因为我想亲自帮助你。” “你对这个球场了解很多，也知道需要什么样的技巧，”K.一边说，一边把她抱起来，因为她压在他的腿上离他太近了。 “那就好吧，”她说，然后抚平裙子，调整衬衫，让自己舒服地坐在他的腿上。然后她用双臂搂住他的脖子，向后靠去，久久地看着他。 “那如果我不坦白，你就不能帮我吗？”请K.测试她。我正在聚集女人来帮助我，他几乎惊讶地自言自语道，首先是伯斯特纳小姐，然后是法庭引座员的妻子，现在是这个小护理助理，他似乎对我有某种难以理解的需要。她坐在我腿上的样子就好像那是她该坐的地方一样！ “不，”莱妮缓缓摇头，回答道，“那时我帮不了你。但你无论如何都不需要我的帮助，这对你来说毫无意义，你太固执了，不肯被说服。”过了一会儿，她问道：“你有恋人吗？” “不，”K 说。“哦，你一定有，”她说。 “嗯，我确实这么做了，”K 说，“想想看，我什至在随身带着她的照片的时候就背叛了她。”莱尼坚持让他给她看一张艾尔莎的照片，然后弯腰坐在他的腿上，仔细地研究着这张照片。这张照片不是艾莎摆姿势时拍的，照片上她刚刚跳完一场她喜欢在酒吧里做的狂野舞蹈，她的裙子在她转身时仍然被甩开，她她双手放在坚挺的臀部上，脖子绷紧，笑着看向一侧。从照片中你看不出她的笑声是针对谁的。 “她的鞋带系得很紧，”莱妮指着她认为可以看到的地方说道。 “我不喜欢她，她笨手笨脚、粗鲁。 但也许她对你温柔友善，这就是你从照片中得到的印象。像那样大而坚强的女孩往往除了温柔和友善之外不知道如何做。她愿意为你牺牲自己吗？” “不，”K说，“她既不温柔也不友善，也没有能力为我牺牲自己。但我还从来没有问过她这些事情。我从来没有像你这样仔细地看过这张照片。” “那么你就不能太看重她了，”莱妮说。 “她终究不可能成为你的爱人。” “是的，她是，”K 说，“我不会收回我的诺言。” “那么，她现在可能是你的情人了，”莱妮说，“但如果你失去了她，或者你把她换成了别人，比如我，你就不会太想念她了。” “这当然是可以想象的，”K微笑着说道，“不过她确实比你有一大优势，她对我的审判一无所知，即使知道也不会去想。她不会试图说服我不屈服。” “好吧，这没什么好处，”莱妮说。 “如果她除此之外没有任何优势，我可以继续希望。她身体有什么缺陷吗？” “‘身体缺陷’？” “是的，”莱妮说，“因为我的身体确实有缺陷，只是一点点。看。”她张开右手的中指和无名指。在这些手指之间，连接它们的皮瓣几乎一直延伸到小指的顶部关节。在黑暗中，K.一开始并没有看到她想向他展示什么，所以她拉着他的手让他感觉到。 “真是大自然的怪胎，”K. 说，当他看了整只手后，他补充道，“多么漂亮的爪子啊！”莱妮带着一种自豪地看着K。 他惊讶地反复张开又合拢她的两根手指，直到最后，他短暂地吻了一下它们，然后放开。 “哦！”她立即​​惊呼：“你吻我了！”她张着嘴，急忙用膝盖爬上K的腿。当他抬头看着她时，他几乎惊呆了，现在她离他这么近，她身上有一种苦涩刺激的气味，像胡椒一样，她抓住他的头，倾身在他身上，咬着吻着他的脖子，甚至咬住他的头发。 “我取代了她的位置！”她不时惊呼。 “你看，现在你带走了我而不是她！”就在这时，她的膝盖滑了出来，伴随着一声小叫，她险些跌倒在地毯上，K.试图用双臂抱住她，却被她一起拉倒了。 “现在你是我的了，”她说。当他离开时，她对他说的最后一句话是：“这是门的钥匙，你想什么时候来就来吧”，然后她无意中在他的背上印下一吻。当他走出前门时，天正下着小雨，他正要走到街中央看看是否还能看到窗外的莱妮，K.的叔叔从K.的车里跳了出来。 ，想着别的事，还没看见在楼外等候。他抓住K.的双臂，把他推到门上，仿佛要把他钉在门上。 “年轻人，”他喊道，“你怎么能做出这样的事？！”你的生意本来进展顺利，现在你却给它造成了严重的损害。你带着一些肮脏的小东西溜了过去，而且显然是律师的心爱之人，然后离开了几个小时。你甚至不想找借口，也不想隐瞒任何事情，不，你对此很坦诚，你和她私奔并留在那里。 与此同时，我们坐在那里，你的叔叔将为你付出如此多的努力，需要争取到你身边的律师，最重要的是办公室主任，一位非常重要的绅士，他直接指挥你的事务其现阶段。我们想讨论如何最好地帮助你，我必须非常小心地对待律师，他必须小心地对待办公室主任，而你最有理由至少给我一些支持。相反，你会远离。最终我们无法再继续假装下去了，但这些人都是有礼貌、能力很强的人，为了不顾及我的感受，他们没有说什么，但最终他们也无法继续强迫自己，因为他们无法谈论手头的事情，他们变得沉默。我们在那里坐了几分钟，听听你是否最终不会回来。一切都是徒劳。最后办公室主任站了起来，因为他待的时间比原定时间要长得多，他告别了，同情地看着我，却帮不上忙，他在门口等了很长时间，虽然比我多了。可以理解为什么他这么好，然后他就走了。我当然很高兴他走了，我一直屏住呼吸。这一切对躺在病床上的律师的影响更大，当我告别他时，这位好人，他已经完全说不出话来了。你可能对他的彻底崩溃负有责任，因此使你所依赖的那个人更接近他的死亡。而我，你自己的叔叔，你把我留在雨中，感受一下，我在这里等了几个小时，浑身湿透，担心得要命。”

Chapter Seven
第七章

Lawyer Manufacturer Painter
律师 制造商 油漆工

One winter morning snow was falling in the dull light outside K. was sitting in his office, already extremely tired despite the early hour. He had told the servitor he was engaged in a major piece of work and none of the junior staff should be allowed in to see him, so he would not be disturbed by them at least. But instead of working he turned round in his chair, slowly moved various items around his desk, but then, without being aware of it, he lay his arm stretched out on the desk top and sat there immobile with his head sunk down on his chest.
一个冬天的早晨，外面昏暗的光线下飘着雪。K. 坐在办公室里，尽管时间还早，但他已经非常疲惫了。他跟仆人说了，自己正在忙着一件大事，不让任何下级人员进来见他，这样至少不会被他们打扰。但他没有工作，而是在椅子上转过身来，慢慢地搬动桌子周围的各种物品，然后，在不知不觉中，他将手臂伸到桌面上，一动不动地坐在那里，头埋在胸前。 。

He was no longer able to get the thought of the trial out of his head. He had often wondered whether it might not be a good idea to work out a written defence and hand it in to the court. It would contain a short description of his life and explain why he had acted the way he had at each event that was in any way important, whether he now considered he had acted well or ill, and his reasons for each. There was no doubt of the advantages a written defence of this sort would have over relying on the lawyer, who was anyway not without his shortcomings. K. had no idea what actions the lawyer was taking; it was certainly not a lot, it was more than a month since the lawyer had summoned him, and none of the previous discussions had given K. the impression that this man would be able to do much for him. Most importantly, he had asked him hardly any questions. And there were so many questions here to be asked. Asking questions were the most important thing. K. had the feeling that he would be able to ask all the questions needed here himself. The lawyer, in contrast, did not ask questions but did all the talking himself or sat silently facing him, leant forward slightly over the desk, probably because he was hard of hearing, pulled on a strand of hair in the middle of his beard and looked down at the carpet, perhaps at the very spot where K. had lain with Leni. Now and then he would give K. some vague warning of the sort you give to children. His speeches were as pointless as they were boring, and K. decided that when the final bill came he would pay not a penny for them. Once the lawyer thought he had humiliated K. sufficiently, he usually started something that would raise his spirits again. He had already, he would then say, won many such cases, partly or in whole, cases which may not really have been as difficult as this one but which, on the face of it, had even less hope of success. He had a list of these cases here in the drawer here he would tap on one or other of the drawers in his desk but could, unfortunately, not show them to K. as they dealt with official secrets. Nonetheless, the great experience he had acquired through all these cases would, of course, be of benefit to K. He had, of course, begun work straight away and was nearly ready to submit the first documents. They would be very important because the first impression made by the defence will often determine the whole course of the proceedings. Unfortunately, though, he would still have to make it clear to K. that the first documents submitted are sometimes not even read by the court. They simply put them with the other documents and point out that, for the time being, questioning and observing the accused are much more important than anything written. If the applicant becomes insistent, then they add that before they come to any decision, as soon as all the material has been brought together, with due regard, of course, to all the documents, then these first documents to have been submitted will also be checked over. But unfortunately, even this is not usually true, the first documents submitted are usually mislaid or lost completely, and even if they do keep them right to the end they are hardly read, although the lawyer only knew about this from rumour. This is all very regrettable, but not entirely without its justifications. But K. should not forget that the trial would not be public, if the court deems it necessary it can be made public but there is no law that says it has to be. As a result, the accused and his defence don’t have access even to the court records, and especially not to the indictment, and that means we generally don’t know or at least not precisely what the first documents need to be about, which means that if they do contain anything of relevance to the case it’s only by a lucky coincidence. If anything about the individual charges and the reasons for them comes out clearly or can be guessed at while the accused is being questioned, then it’s possible to work out and submit documents that really direct the issue and present proof, but not before. Conditions like this, of course, place the defence in a very unfavourable and difficult position. But that is what they intend. In fact, defence is not really allowed under the law, it’s only tolerated, and there is even some dispute about whether the relevant parts of the law imply even that. So strictly speaking, there is no such thing as a counsel acknowledged by the court, and anyone who comes before this court as counsel is basically no more than a barrack room lawyer. The effect of all this, of course, is to remove the dignity of the whole procedure, the next time K. is in the court offices he might like to have a look in at the lawyers’ room, just so that he’s seen it. He might well be quite shocked by the people he sees assembled there. The room they’ve been allocated, with its narrow space and low ceiling, will be enough to show what contempt the court has for these people. The only light in the room comes through a little window that is so high up that, if you want to look out of it, you first have to get one of your colleagues to support you on his back, and even then the smoke from the chimney just in front of it will go up your nose and make your face black. In the floor of this room to give yet another example of the conditions there there is a hole that’s been there for more than a year, it’s not so big that a man could fall through, but it is big enough for your foot to disappear through it. The lawyers’ room is on the second floor of the attic; if your foot does go through it will hang down into the first floor of the attic underneath it, and right in the corridor where the litigants are waiting. It’s no exaggeration when lawyers say that conditions like that are a disgrace. Complaints to the management don’t have the slightest effect, but the lawyers are strictly forbidden to alter anything in the room at their own expense. But even treating the lawyers in this way has its reasons. They want, as far as possible, to prevent any kind of defence, everything should be made the responsibility of the accused. No a bad point of view, basically, but nothing could be more mistaken than to think from that that lawyers are not necessary for the accused in this court. On the contrary, there is no court where they are less needed than here. This is because proceedings are generally kept secret not only from the public but also from the accused. Only as far as that is possible, of course, but it is possible to a very large extent. And the accused doesn’t get to see the court records either, and it’s very difficult to infer what’s in the court records from what’s been said during questioning based on them, especially for the accused who is in a difficult situation and is faced with every possible worry to distract him. This is when the defence begins. Counsel for the defence are not normally allowed to be present while the accused is being questioned, so afterwards, and if possible still at the door of the interview room, he has to learn what he can about it from him and extract whatever he can that might be of use, even though what the accused has to report is often very confused. But that is not the most important thing, as there’s really not a lot that can be learned in this way, although in this, as with anything else, a competent man will learn more than another. Nonetheless, the most important thing is the lawyer’s personal connections, that’s where the real value of taking counsel lies. Now K. will most likely have already learned from his own experience that, among its very lowest orders, the court organisation does have its imperfections, the court is strictly closed to the public, but staff who forget their duty or who take bribes do, to some extent, show where the gaps are. This is where most lawyers will push their way in, this is where bribes are paid and information extracted, there have even, in earlier times at least, been incidents where documents have been stolen. There’s no denying that some surprisingly favourable results have been attained for the accused in this way, for a limited time, and these petty advocates then strut to and fro on the basis of them and attract new clients, but for the further course of the proceedings it signifies either nothing or nothing good. The only things of real value are honest personal contacts, contacts with higher officials, albeit higher officials of the lower grades, you understand. That is the only way the progress of the trial can be influenced, hardly noticeable at first, it’s true, but from then on it becomes more and more visible. There are, of course, not many lawyers who can do this, and K. has made a very good choice in this matter. There were probably no more than one or two who had as many contacts as Dr. Huld, but they don’t bother with the company of the lawyers’ room and have nothing to do with it. This means they have all the less contact with the court officials. It is not at all necessary for Dr. Huld to go to the court, wait in the ante-rooms for the examining judges to turn up, if they turn up, and try to achieve something which, according to the judges’ mood is usually more apparent than real and most often not even that. No, K. has seen for himself that the court officials, including some who are quite high up, come forward without being asked, are glad to give information which is fully open or at least easy to understand, they discuss the next stages in the proceedings, in fact in some cases they can be won over and are quite willing to adopt the other person’s point of view. However, when this happens, you should never trust them too far, as however firmly they may have declared this new point of view in favour of the defendant they might well go straight back to their offices and write a report for the court that says just the opposite, and might well be even harder on the defendant than the original view, the one they insist they’ve been fully dissuaded from. And, of course, there’s no way of defending yourself from this, something said in private is indeed in private and cannot then be used in public, it’s not something that makes it easy for the defence to keep those gentlemen’s favour. On the other hand, it’s also true that the gentlemen don’t become involved with the defence which will of course be done with great expertise just for philanthropic reasons or in order to be friendly, in some respects it would be truer to say that they, too, have it allocated to them. This is where the disadvantages of a court structure that, right from the start, stipulates that all proceedings take place in private, come into force. In normal, mediocre trials its officials have contact with the public, and they’re very well equipped for it, but here they don’t; normal trials run their course all by themselves, almost, and just need a nudge here and there; but when they’re faced with cases that are especially difficult they’re as lost as they often are with ones that are very simple; they’re forced to spend all their time, day and night, with their laws, and so they don’t have the right feel for human relationships, and that’s a serious shortcoming in cases like this. That’s when they come for advice to the lawyer, with a servant behind them carrying the documents which normally are kept so secret. You could have seen many gentlemen at this window, gentlemen of whom you would least expect it, staring out this window in despair on the street below while the lawyer is at his desk studying the documents so that he can give them good advice. And at times like that it’s also possible to see how exceptionally seriously these gentlemen take their professions and how they are thrown into great confusion by difficulties which it’s just not in their natures to overcome. But they’re not in an easy position, to regard their positions as easy would be to do them an injustice. The different ranks and hierarchies of the court are endless, and even someone who knows his way around them cannot always tell what’s going to happen. But even for the junior officials, the proceedings in the courtrooms are usually kept secret, so they are hardly able to see how the cases they work with proceed, court affairs appear in their range of vision often without their knowing where they come from and they move on further without their learning where they go. So civil servants like this are not able to learn the things you can learn from studying the successive stages that individual trials go through, the final verdict or the reasons for it. They’re only allowed to deal with that part of the trial which the law allocates them, and they usually know less about the results of their work after it’s left them than the defence does, even though the defence will usually stay in contact with the accused until the trial is nearly at its end, so that the court officials can learn many useful things from the defence. Bearing all this in mind, does it still surprise K. that the officials are irritated and often express themselves about the litigants in unflattering ways which is an experience shared by everyone. All the officials are irritated, even when they appear calm. This causes many difficulties for the junior advocates, of course. There is a story, for instance, that has very much the ring of truth about it. It goes like this: One of the older officials, a good and peaceful man, was dealing with a difficult matter for the court which had become very confused, especially thanks to the contributions from the lawyers. He had been studying it for a day and a night without a break as these officials are indeed hard working, no-one works as hard as they do. When it was nearly morning, and he had been working for twenty-four hours with probably very little result, he went to the front entrance, waited there in ambush, and every time a lawyer tried to enter the building he would throw him down the steps. The lawyers gathered together down in front of the steps and discussed with each other what they should do; on the one hand they had actually no right to be allowed into the building so that there was hardly anything that they could legally do to the official and, as I’ve already mentioned, they would have to be careful not to set all the officials against them. On the other hand, any day not spent in court is a day lost for them and it was a matter of some importance to force their way inside. In the end, they agreed that they would try to tire the old man out. One lawyer after another was sent out to run up the steps and let himself be thrown down again, offering what resistance he could as long as it was passive resistance, and his colleagues would catch him at the bottom of the steps. That went on for about an hour until the old gentleman, who was already exhausted from working all night, was very tired and went back to his office. Those who were at the bottom of the steps could not believe it at first, so they sent somebody out to go and look behind the door to see if there really was no-one there, and only then did they all gather together and probably didn’t even dare to complain, as it’s far from being the lawyers’ job to introduce any improvements in the court system, or even to want to. Even the most junior lawyer can understand the relationship there to some extent, but one significant point is that almost every defendant, even very simple people, begins to think of suggestions for improving the court as soon as his proceedings have begun, many of them often even spend time and energy on the matter that could be spent far better elsewhere. The only right thing to do is to learn how to deal with the situation as it is. Even if it were possible to improve any detail of it which is anyway no more than superstitious nonsense the best that they could achieve, although doing themselves incalculable harm in the process, is that they will have attracted the special attention of the officials for any case that comes up in the future, and the officials are always ready to seek revenge. Never attract attention to yourself! Stay calm, however much it goes against your character! Try to gain some insight into the size of the court organism and how, to some extent, it remains in a state of suspension, and that even if you alter something in one place you’ll draw the ground out from under your feet and might fall, whereas if an enormous organism like the court is disrupted in any one place it finds it easy to provide a substitute for itself somewhere else. Everything is connected with everything else and will continue without any change or else, which is quite probable, even more closed, more attentive, more strict, more malevolent. So it’s best to leave the work to the lawyers and not to keep disturbing them. It doesn’t do much good to make accusations, especially if you can’t make it clear what they’re based on and their full significance, but it must be said that K. caused a great deal of harm to his own case by his behaviour towards the office director, he was a very influential man but now he might as well be struck off the list of those who might do anything for K. If the trial is mentioned, even just in passing, it’s quite obvious that he’s ignoring it. These officials are in many ways just like children. Often, something quite harmless although K.’s behaviour could unfortunately not be called harmless will leave them feeling so offended that they will even stop talking with good friends of theirs, they turn away when they see them and do everything they can to oppose them. But then, with no particular reason, surprisingly enough, some little joke that was only ever attempted because everything seemed so hopeless will make them laugh and they’ll be reconciled. It’s both difficult and hard at the same time to deal with them, and there’s hardly any reason for it. It’s sometimes quite astonishing that a single, average life is enough to encompass so much that it’s at all possible ever to have any success in one’s work here. On the other hand, there are also dark moments, such as everyone has, when you think you’ve achieved nothing at all, when it seems that the only trials to come to a good end are those that were determined to have a good end from the start and would do so without any help, while all the others are lost despite all the running to and fro, all the effort, all the little, apparent successes that gave such joy. Then you no longer feel very sure of anything and, if asked about a trial that was doing well by its own nature but which was turned for the worse because you assisted in it, would not even dare deny that. And even that is a kind of selfconfidence, but then it’s the only one that’s left. Lawyers are especially vulnerable to fits of depression of that sort and they are no more than fits of depression of course when a case is suddenly taken out of their hands after they’ve been conducting it satisfactorily for some time. That’s probably the worst that can happen to a lawyer. It’s not that the accused takes the case away from him, that hardly ever happens, once a defendant has taken on a certain lawyer he has to stay with him whatever happens. How could he ever carry on by himself after he’s taken on help from a lawyer? No, that just doesn’t happen, but what does sometimes happen is that the trial takes on a course where the lawyer may not go along with it. Client and trial are both simply taken away from the lawyer; and then even contact with the court officials won’t help, however good they are, as they don’t know anything themselves. The trial will have entered a stage where no more help can be given, where it’s being processed in courts to which no-one has any access, where the defendant cannot even be contacted by his lawyer. You come home one day and find all the documents you’ve submitted, which you’ve worked hard to create and which you had the best hopes for, lying on the desk, they’ve been sent back as they can’t be carried through to the next stage in the trial, they’re just worthless scraps of paper. It doesn’t meant that the case has been lost, not at all, or at least there is no decisive reason for supposing so, it’s just that you don’t know anything more about the case and won’t be told anything of what’s happening. Well, cases like that are the exceptions, I’m glad to say, and even if K.’s trial is one of them, it’s still, for the time being, a long way off. But there was still plenty of opportunity for lawyers to get to work, and K. could be sure they would be made use of. As he had said, the time for submitting documents was still in the future and there was no rush to prepare them, it was much more important to start the initial discussions with the appropriate officials, and they had already taken place. With varying degrees of success, it must be said. It was much better not to give away any details before their time, as in that way K. could only be influenced unfavourably and his hopes might be raised or he might be made too anxious, better just to say that some individuals have spoken very favourably and shown themselves very willing to help, although others have spoken less favourably, but even they have not in any way refused to help. So all in all, the results are very encouraging, only you should certainly not draw any particular conclusions as all preliminary proceedings begin in the same way and it was only the way they developed further that would show what the value of these preliminary proceedings has been. Anyway, nothing has been lost yet, and if we can succeed in getting the office director, despite everything, on our side and several actions have been undertaken to this end then everything is a clean wound, as a surgeon would say, and we can wait for the results with some comfort.
他再也无法将审判的念头从脑海中抹去。他常常想，写一份书面辩护并提交给法庭是否不是一个好主意。它将包含对他生活的简短描述，并解释为什么他在每一个重要的事件中都采取了这样的行为方式，他现在认为自己的行为是好是坏，以及他对每件事的理由。毫无疑问，这种书面辩护比依赖律师有优势，无论如何，律师也不是没有缺点。 K. 不知道律师正在采取什么行动；当然不是很多，距离律师传唤他已经一个多月了，之前的讨论都没有给K留下这样的印象：这个人能为他做很多事情。最重要的是，他几乎没有问过他任何问题。这里有很多问题要问。提出问题是最重要的。 K. 感觉他可以自己提出这里需要的所有问题。相比之下，律师没有提出问题，而是自己说话，或者静静地坐在他面前，在桌子上稍微前倾，可能是因为他听力不好，拉着胡须中间的一缕头发，低头看着地毯，也许就是K.和莱妮躺过的地方。他时不时地会给K一些含糊的警告，就像你给小孩子的那种警告。他的演讲既无聊又毫无意义，K. 决定，当最终账单到来时，他不会为这些演讲支付一分钱。一旦律师认为他已经充分羞辱了K.，他通常会开始做一些能让他重新振作起来的事情。 然后他会说，他已经部分或全部赢得了许多这样的案件，这些案件可能实际上并不像这起案件那么困难，但从表面上看，成功的希望更小。他在抽屉里有一份这些案件的清单，他可以点击办公桌上的一个或另一个抽屉，但不幸的是，他不能把它们展示给K，因为它们涉及官方机密。尽管如此，他从所有这些案件中获得的丰富经验当然对K有好处。他当然立即开始工作，几乎准备好提交第一份文件。它们非常重要，因为辩方给人的第一印象往往会决定整个诉讼过程。但不幸的是，他仍然必须向 K. 明确表示，法院有时甚至没有阅读提交的第一份文件。他们只是将它们与其他文件放在一起，并指出，目前，询问和观察被告比任何书面文件都重要得多。如果申请人坚持不懈，那么他们会补充说，在做出任何决定之前，一旦所有材料都汇集在一起​​，当然，适当考虑了所有文件，那么这些已提交的第一份文件也将进行检查。但不幸的是，即使这通常不是真的，提交的第一份文件通常会被误放或完全丢失，即使他们确实将它们保存到最后，也很难阅读，尽管律师只是从谣言中得知这一点。这一切令人非常遗憾，但并非完全没有道理。但K.不应忘记，审判不会公开，如果法院认为有必要，可以公开，但没有法律规定必须公开。 因此，被告及其辩护人甚至无法查阅法庭记录，尤其是起诉书，这意味着我们通常不知道或至少不确切地知道第一份文件的内容，这意味着，如果它们确实包含与案件相关的任何内容，那也只是幸运的巧合。如果有关个人指控及其原因的任何信息都清楚地出现，或者在被告受到审讯时可以被猜测出来，那么就可以制定并提交真正指导问题并提供证据的文件，但在此之前不行。当然，这样的情况使防守处于非常不利和困难的境地。但这就是他们的意图。事实上，法律实际上并不允许辩护，而只是容忍，甚至法律的相关部分是否暗示了这一点，甚至存在一些争议。所以严格来说，不存在法庭承认的律师，任何到法庭当律师的人基本上都不过是营房律师。当然，所有这一切的结果是消除了整个程序的尊严，下次K.在法院办公室时，他可能想看看律师的房间，只是为了让他看到它。他很可能会对他看到聚集在那里的人们感到非常震惊。分配给他们的房间，空间狭小，天花板又低，足以说明法庭对这些人有多么的蔑视。房间里唯一的光线是从一扇小窗户射进来的，窗户太高了，如果你想往外看，你首先得让你的一位同事背着你，即使这样，烟雾也从窗户里冒出来。前面的烟囱会升到你的鼻子上，让你的脸变黑。 再举一个例子来说明情况，在这个房间的地板上有一个洞，已经存在了一年多了，它没有大到一个人可以掉进去，但它大到足以让你的脚从里面消失。它。律师室在阁楼二楼；如果你的脚确实穿过了，它就会垂到下面阁楼的一楼，就在诉讼当事人等待的走廊上。律师们毫不夸张地说，这样的条件是一种耻辱。向管理层投诉没有丝毫影响，但律师严禁自费改动房间里的任何东西。但即便如此对待律师也是有其道理的。他们希望尽可能地防止任何形式的辩护，一切都应该由被告人承担。基本上，这不是一个坏观点，但没有什么比认为本法庭的被告不需要律师更错误的了。相反，没有哪个法庭比这里更不需要他们了。这是因为诉讼程序通常不仅对公众保密，而且对被告也保密。当然，只是在可能的范围内，但在很大程度上是可能的。而且被告人也看不到法庭记录，很难从法庭记录中的询问内容推断出法庭记录中的内容，特别是对于处境困难、面临各种情况的被告人来说。可能的担忧会分散他的注意力。这就是防守开始的时候。 被告人接受讯问时，辩护律师通常不允许在场，因此，在讯问之后，如果可能的话，仍在讯问室门口，他必须从被告人那里了解他能了解到的情况，并提取他能收集到的一切信息。可能有用，尽管被告必须报告的内容往往非常混乱。但这还不是最重要的，因为通过这种方式确实能学到的东西并不多，尽管在这方面，就像其他任何事情一样，一个有能力的人会比其他人学到更多。但最重要的是律师的人脉关系，这才是接受律师的真正价值所在。现在，K.很可能已经从自己的经历中了解到，在最底层的法院组织中，确实有其不完善之处，法院严格不对公众开放，但忘记职责或收受贿赂的工作人员却有，在某种程度上显示差距在哪里。这是大多数律师会闯入的地方，这是行贿和获取信息的地方，甚至，至少在早期，甚至发生过文件被盗的事件。不可否认的是，通过这种方式，在有限的时间内，被告取得了一些令人惊讶的有利结果，然后这些小辩护律师在此基础上来回走动并吸引新客户，但对于诉讼的进一步进程它要么没有任何意义，要么没有任何好处。唯一真正有价值的东西是诚实的个人接触，与上级官员的接触，尽管是下级的上级官员，你明白。这是影响审判进展的唯一方式，一开始很难注意到，这是事实，但从那时起它变得越来越明显。 当然，能做到这一点的律师并不多，而K.在这件事上做出了非常好的选择。像胡尔德博士那样有那么多人脉的人恐怕不超过一两个，但他们不屑于律师室的陪伴，也与此无关。这意味着他们与法院官员的接触更少。赫尔德博士完全没有必要去法庭，在前厅等待预审法官出现（如果他们出现的话），并试图实现一些根据法官的心情通常是比真实更明显，而且通常甚至不是这样。不，K. 亲眼目睹法院官员，包括一些高层官员，未经询问就挺身而出，很高兴提供完全公开或至少易于理解的信息，他们讨论了案件的下一阶段。事实上，在某些情况下，他们可以被说服，并且非常愿意采纳对方的观点。然而，当这种情况发生时，你永远不应该太信任他们，因为无论他们多么坚定地宣布了有利于被告的新观点，他们很可能会直接回到他们的办公室，为法庭写一份报告，上面写着：相反，对被告来说可能比最初的观点更加严厉，他们坚称自己已被完全劝阻。当然，这也是没有办法为自己辩解的，私下里说的话确实是私下里说的，不能公开使用，辩方也不容易博得那些先生们的好感。 另一方面，绅士们确实不会参与辩护，这当然是出于慈善原因或为了友好而需要高超的专业知识来完成，在某些方面，更真实的说法是，他们也将其分配给他们。这就是法院结构的缺点开始显现的地方，该结构从一开始就规定所有诉讼均在私下进行。在正常、平庸的审判中，其官员会与公众接触，而且他们对此有充分的准备，但在这里他们没有；正常的试验几乎都是自行进行的，只是需要时不时地推动一下；但当他们面对特别困难的案件时，他们就会像面对非常简单的案件一样迷失方向；他们被迫不分昼夜地遵守法律，因此他们对人际关系没有正确的感觉，这在这种情况下是一个严重的缺点。就在那时，他们向律师寻求建议，身后有一名仆人拿着通常保密的文件。你可能会在这扇窗户看到许多绅士，他们是你最意想不到的绅士，他们绝望地凝视着窗外下面的街道，而律师则坐在办公桌前研究文件，以便给他们提供好的建议。在这种时候，我们也可以看到这些绅士们对自己的职业是多么的认真，以及他们是如何被他们本性无法克服的困难所陷入的巨大困惑。但他们的处境并不轻松，认为他们的处境很容易对他们来说是不公平的。 宫廷中的不同等级和等级层出不穷，即使是熟悉其中的人也不能总是知道会发生什么。但即使对于下级官员来说，法庭上的诉讼程序通常都是保密的，因此他们很难看到自己处理的案件是如何进行的，法庭事务往往不知从何而来，出现在他们的视野中。在他们不知道自己要去哪里的情况下继续前进。因此，像这样的公务员无法从研究个别审判经历的连续阶段、最后的判决或原因中学到你可以学到的东西。他们只被允许处理法律分配给他们的审判部分，而且他们对工作结果的了解通常比辩方少，尽管辩方通常会与辩方保持联系。直到审判接近结束时，法庭官员才能从辩方那里学到许多有用的东西。考虑到这一切，K. 是否仍然感到惊讶的是，官员们很恼火，经常以不讨好的方式表达对当事人的不满，这是每个人都有的经历。所有的官员虽然表面上平静，但都被激怒了。当然，这给初级倡导者带来了许多困难。例如，有一个故事，它的真实性非常高。事情是这样的：一位年长的官员，一个善良而平和的人，正在处理法庭上的一件棘手的事情，法庭变得非常混乱，特别是感谢律师的帮助。他已经研究了一天一夜，没有休息过，这些官员确实很辛苦，没有人比他们更努力。 快到早上的时候，他已经工作了二十四小时，可能收效甚微，他就走到前门埋伏在那里，每次有律师试图进入大楼，他都会把他扔下楼。脚步。律师们聚集在台阶前，互相讨论着该怎么做。一方面，他们实际上无权进入大楼，因此他们几乎无法对官员做任何合法的事情，而且正如我已经提到的，他们必须小心不要让所有官员反对他们。另一方面，没有在法庭上度过的任何一天对他们来说都是损失的一天，强行进入法庭是一件非常重要的事情。最后，他们同意想办法让老人疲惫不堪。一个又一个律师被派去跑上台阶，然后又让自己被摔下去，尽其所能地抵抗，只要是被动抵抗，他的同事就会在台阶下抓住他。这样持续了大约一个小时，老先生已经因为工作了一夜而疲惫不堪，回到了自己的办公室。台阶下的人一开始不敢相信，就派人出去看看门后是不是真的没人，这才都聚集到一起，估计也没有发现。甚至不敢抱怨，因为对法院系统进行任何改进根本不是律师的工作，甚至不想这样做。 即使是最初级的律师也能在一定程度上理解其中的关系，但重要的一点是，几乎每个被告，甚至是非常简单的人，在诉讼程序一开始就开始思考改进法庭的建议，其中许多人经常提出建议。甚至把时间和精力花在本来可以花在其他地方更好的事情上。唯一正确的做法就是学习如何应对实际情况。即使有可能改进它的任何细节，无论如何，这只不过是迷信的胡言乱语，他们所能达到的最好结果，尽管在这个过程中给自己带来了不可估量的伤害，但无论如何，他们都会引起官员的特别注意将来有事，官员们随时准备报仇。永远不要吸引别人的注意！保持冷静，无论这多么违背你的性格！尝试深入了解球场有机体的大小，以及在某种程度上，它如何保持悬浮状态，即使你改变某个地方的某些东西，你也会把你脚下的地面拉出来，并可能然而，如果像法院这样的庞大组织在任何一个地方遭到破坏，它会发现很容易在其他地方为自己提供替代品。一切都与其他一切相连，并且将继续下去，没有任何改变或其他，这是很可能的，甚至更封闭，更专注，更严格，更恶毒。所以最好还是把工作交给律师去做，不要老去打扰他们。提出指控并没有多大好处，尤其是如果你无法弄清楚它们的依据是什么以及它们的全部意义，但必须说的是，K. 他对办公室主任的行为对他自己的案子造成了很大的伤害，他是一个很有影响力的人，但现在他可能会被从可能为K做任何事情的名单上除掉。如果提到审判，即使只是顺便一提，也很明显他忽略了这一点。这些官员在很多方面都像孩子一样。通常，虽然K.的行为不幸地不能被称为无害，但一些相当无害的事情会让他们感到非常生气，甚至会停止与他们的好朋友交谈，当他们看到他们时，他们会转身走开，并尽一切努力反对他们。但接下来，没有什么特别的原因，令人惊讶的是，一些只是因为一切看起来都毫无希望而才尝试过的小笑话会让他们笑起来，然后他们就会和解。对付他们既困难又困难，而且几乎没有任何理由。有时令人惊讶的是，一个人的平均生活就足以包含如此多的内容，以至于一个人在这里的工作中完全有可能取得任何成功。另一方面，也有黑暗的时刻，就像每个人都经历过的那样，当你认为自己一无所获时，当似乎唯一能有好结果的尝试就是那些决心有好结果的尝试从一开始，我就会在没有任何帮助的情况下做到这一点，而所有其他人都迷失了，尽管所有的来回奔跑，所有的努力，所有的小而明显的成功都带来了如此快乐。然后你就不再对任何事情感到非常确定，如果被问到一项本来进展顺利但因为你协助而变得更糟的试验，你甚至不敢否认。即使这也是一种自信，但这是唯一剩下的。 律师特别容易患上这种抑郁症，当然，当他们已经令人满意地处理了一段时间的案件后，突然从他们手中夺走案件时，他们只不过是抑郁症发作。对于律师来说，这可能是最糟糕的事情了。并不是被告把案子从他身边夺走，这种情况很少发生，一旦被告聘请了某个律师，无论发生什么，他都必须和他在一起。在接受了律师的帮助后，他怎么能独自继续下去呢？不，这种情况不会发生，但有时会发生这样的情况：审判过程中律师可能不同意。客户和审判都被简单地从律师手中夺走；即使与朝廷官员联系，无论他们多么优秀，也无济于事，因为他们自己什么也不知道。审判将进入一个无法提供更多帮助的阶段，审判将在无人能进入的法庭进行，甚至无法联系到被告的律师。有一天你回到家，发现你辛辛苦苦准备的、你最希望的文件都放在桌子上，因为带不动而被退回去。到了审判的下一阶段，它们就只是一文不值的废纸了。这并不意味着这个案子已经输了，一点也不，或者至少没有决定性的理由这么认为，只是你对这个案子不了解更多，也不会被告知任何事情。正在发生。好吧，我很高兴地说，这样的案件是例外，即使 K. 的审判是其中之一，但就目前而言，它仍然还有很长的路要走。但律师仍然有很多工作机会，K. 可以肯定他们会被利用。正如他所说，提交文件的时间还在将来，不必急于准备，更重要的是与有关官员开始初步讨论，而且这些讨论已经进行了。必须说，取得了不同程度的成功。最好不要提前泄露任何细节，因为这样只会对 K. 产生不利的影响，他的希望可能会提高，或者他可能会变得太焦虑，最好只是说有些人说得非常好并且表现出自己非常愿意提供帮助，虽然别人的语气不太好，但即使是他们也没有以任何方式拒绝帮助。总而言之，结果非常令人鼓舞，只是您当然不应该得出任何特定的结论，因为所有初步程序都以相同的方式开始，只有它们进一步发展的方式才能显示这些初步程序的价值。无论如何，还没有失去任何东西，如果我们能够成功地让办公室主任站在我们这边，并且为此采取了一些行动，那么正如外科医生所说，一切都是干净的伤口，我们可以带着一些安慰等待结果。

When he started talking on in this way the lawyer was quite tireless. He went through it all again every time K. went to see him. There was always some progress, but he could never be told what sort of progress it was. The first set of documents to be submitted were being worked on but still not ready, which usually turned out to be a great advantage the next time K. went to see him as the earlier occasion would have been a very bad time to put them in, which they could not then have known. If K., stupefied from all this talking, ever pointed out that even considering all these difficulties progress was very slow, the lawyer would object that progress was not slow at all, but that they might have progressed far further if K. had come to him at the right time. But he had come to him late and that lateness would bring still further difficulties, and not only where time was concerned. The only welcome interruption during these visits was always when Leni contrived to bring the lawyer his tea while K. was there. Then she would stand behind K. pretending to watch the lawyer as he bent greedily over his cup, poured the tea in and drank and secretly let K. hold her hand. There was always complete silence. The lawyer drank. K. squeezed Leni’s hand and Leni would sometimes dare to gently stroke K.’s hair. “Still here, are you?” the lawyer would ask when he was ready. “I wanted to take the dishes away,” said Leni, they would give each other’s hands a final squeeze, the lawyer would wipe his mouth and then start talking at K. again with renewed energy.
当他开始这样说话时，律师显得不知疲倦。每次K.去看他时，他都会再次经历这一切。总是有一些进步，但他永远无法知道那是一种什么样的进步。第一套要提交的文件正在处理中，但尚未准备好，这通常在 K. 下次去见他时是一个很大的优势，因为早些时候的场合不太适合提交这些文件。 ，他们当时还不知道。如果 K. 因所有这些谈话而感到震惊，并指出即使考虑到所有这些困难，进展仍然非常缓慢，律师会反对说进展根本不慢，但如果 K. 明白的话，他们可能会进展得更远。他在正确的时间。但他来得太晚了，迟到会带来更多的困难，而且不仅仅是时间方面的困难。在这些访问期间，唯一值得欢迎的打扰总是当莱妮在 K. 在那里时设法给律师端茶时。然后她会站在K.身后假装看着律师，他贪婪地俯下身子，倒茶喝，偷偷地让K.握着她的手。总是一片寂静。律师喝了酒。 K.捏捏莱妮的手，莱妮有时也敢轻轻地抚摸K.的头发。 “你还在这儿吗？”律师会问他什么时候准备好。 “我想把盘子拿走，”莱妮说，他们最后一次握紧对方的手，律师擦擦嘴，然后又开始精力充沛地对 K. 说话。

Was the lawyer trying to comfort K. or to confuse him? K. could not tell, but it seemed clear to him that his defence was not in good hands. Maybe everything the lawyer said was quite right, even though he obviously wanted to make himself as conspicuous as possible and probably had never even taken on a case as important as he said K.’s was. But it was still suspicious how he continually mentioned his personal contacts with the civil servants. Were they to be exploited solely for K.’s benefit? The lawyer never forgot to mention that they were dealing only with junior officials, which meant officials who were dependent on others, and the direction taken in each trial could be important for their own furtherment. Could it be that they were making use of the lawyer to turn trials in a certain direction, which would, of course, always be at the cost of the defendant? It certain did not mean that they would do that in every trial, that was not likely at all, and there were probably also trials where they gave the lawyer advantages and all the room he needed to turn it in the direction he wanted, as it would also be to their advantage to keep his reputation intact. If that really was their relationship, how would they direct K.’s trial which, as the lawyer had explained, was especially difficult and therefore important enough to attract great attention from the very first time it came to court? There could not be much doubt about what they would do. The first signs of it could already be seen in the fact that the first documents still had not been submitted even though the trial had already lasted several months, and that, according to the lawyer, everything was still in its initial stages, which was very effective, of course, in making the defendant passive and keeping him helpless. Then he could be suddenly surprised with the verdict, or at least with a notification that the hearing had not decided in his favour and the matter would be passed on to a higher office.
律师是想安慰 K. 还是想迷惑他？ K. 无法判断，但他似乎很清楚，他的防守并没有得到很好的管理。也许律师说的一切都是对的，尽管他显然想让自己尽可能引人注目，而且可能从来没有接过像他所说的 K. 的案件那么重要的案件。但他如何不断提及自己与公务员的私人交往仍然令人怀疑。难道他们只是为了 K. 的利益而被利用吗？律师从来没有忘记提到，他们只与低级官员打交道，这意味着官员依赖他人，每次审判的方向可能对他们自己的进步很重要。难道他们是在利用律师来将审判转向某个方向，而这当然总是以被告为代价？这当然并不意味着他们在每次审判中都会这样做，这根本不可能，而且可能也有一些审判，他们给了律师优势​​和他需要的所有空间，以将其转向他想要的方向，因为它保持他的声誉完好无损也对他们有利。如果这确实是他们的关系，那么他们将如何指导 K. 的审判？正如律师所解释的那样，K. 的审判特别困难，因此很重要，从一开始就引起了法庭的高度关注？他们会做什么是毫无疑问的。 最初的迹象已经可以看出，尽管审判已经持续了几个月，但第一批文件仍然没有提交，而且据律师称，一切都还处于初始阶段，这非常令人震惊。当然，这会有效地使被告变得被动并使他无助。然后，他可能会突然对判决感到惊讶，或者至少会收到通知，称听证会没有做出对他有利的决定，此事将被移交给更高的办公室。

It was essential that K. take a hand in it himself. On winter’s mornings such as this, when he was very tired and everything dragged itself lethargically through his head, this belief of his seemed irrefutable. He no longer felt the contempt for the trial that he had had earlier. If he had been alone in the world it would have been easy for him to ignore it, although it was also certain that, in that case, the trial would never have arisen in the first place. But now, his uncle had already dragged him to see the lawyer, he had to take account of his family; his job was no longer totally separate from the progress of the trial, he himself had carelessly with a certain, inexplicable complacency mentioned it to acquaintances and others had learned about it in ways he did not know, his relationship with Miss Burstner seemed to be in trouble because of it. In short, he no longer had any choice whether he would accept the trial or turn it down, he was in the middle of it and had to defend himself. If he was tired, then that was bad.
K. 亲自参与此事至关重要。在这样的冬天早晨，当他非常疲倦，一切都昏昏欲睡地在他脑海中拖行时，他的这个信念似乎是无可辩驳的。他不再像之前那样对试炼感到蔑视。如果世界上只有他一个人，他很容易忽视它，尽管也可以肯定的是，在这种情况下，审判一开始就不会发生。可现在，舅舅已经拉着他去见律师了，他必须顾及家人；他的工作不再与审判的进展完全分开，他本人带着某种莫名其妙的自满，漫不经心地向熟人提到了这件事，而其他人也以他不知道的方式了解到了这件事，他与伯斯特纳小姐的关系似乎处于紧张状态。因为它而烦恼。总之，他已经没有选择是接受审判还是拒绝审判，他身在其中，必须为自己辩护。如果他累了，那就糟糕了。

But there was no reason to worry too much before he needed to. He had been capable of working himself up to his high position in the bank in a relatively short time and to retain it with respect from everyone, now he simply had to apply some of the talents that had made that possible for him to the trial, and there was no doubt that it had to turn out well. The most important thing, if something was to be achieved, was to reject in advance any idea that he might be in any way guilty. There was no guilt. The trial was nothing but a big piece of business, just like he had already concluded to the benefit of the bank many times, a piece of business that concealed many lurking dangers waiting in ambush for him, as they usually did, and these dangers would need to be defended against. If that was to be achieved then he must not entertain any idea of guilt, whatever he did, he would need to look after his own interests as closely as he could. Seen in this way, there was no choice but to take his representation away from the lawyer very soon, at best that very evening. The lawyer had told him, as he talked to him, that that was something unheard of and would probably do him a great deal of harm, but K. could not tolerate any impediment to his efforts where his trial was concerned, and these impediments were probably caused by the lawyer himself. But once he had shaken off the lawyer the documents would need to be submitted straight away and, if possible, he would need to see to it that they were being dealt with every day. It would of course not be enough, if that was to be done, for K. to sit in the corridor with his hat under the bench like the others. Day after day, he himself, or one of the women or somebody else on his behalf, would have to run after the officials and force them to sit at their desks and study K.’s documents instead of looking out on the corridor through the grating. There could be no let-up in these efforts, everything would need to be organised and supervised, it was about time that the court came up against a defendant who knew how to defend and make use of his rights.
但在他需要之前没有理由担心太多。他有能力在相对较短的时间内在银行里爬上高位，并受到所有人的尊重，现在他只需要把一些使他成为可能的才能运用到审判中，毫无疑问，结果一定会很好。如果要有所成就，最重要的事情就是事先拒绝任何认为他可能有罪的想法。没有任何愧疚。这次审判不过是一桩大生意，就像他已经多次得出的对银行有利的结论一样，这桩生意中隐藏着许多潜伏的危险，正如往常一样，这些危险都在埋伏着。需要防御。如果要实现这一点，那么他就不能抱有任何愧疚的想法，无论他做什么，他都需要尽可能地照顾自己的利益。如此看来，他只能很快就从律师手中夺走他的代理权，最多就是当晚。当他与律师交谈时，律师告诉他，这是闻所未闻的事情，可能会给他带来很大的伤害，但 K. 不能容忍他在审判方面的努力受到任何障碍，而这些障碍是很可能是律师本人造成的。但一旦他摆脱了律师，文件就需要立即提交，如果可能的话，他需要确保这些文件每天都得到处理。当然，如果要做到这一点，K. 像其他人一样坐在走廊里，把帽子放在长凳下，这当然是不够的。 日复一日，他本人，或者其中一名妇女或代表他的其他人，必须追赶官员，强迫他们坐在办公桌前研究 K. 的文件，而不是透过房间看着外面的走廊。光栅。这些努力不能放松，一切都需要组织和监督，是时候让法庭面对一个懂得如何捍卫和利用自己权利的被告了。

But when K. had the confidence to try and do all this the difficulty of composing the documents was too much for him. Earlier, just a week or so before, he could only have felt shame at the thought of being made to write out such documents himself; it had never entered his head that the task could also be difficult. He remembered one morning when, already piled up with work, he suddenly shoved everything to one side and took a pad of paper on which he sketched out some of his thoughts on how documents of this sort should proceed. Perhaps he would offer them to that slow-witted lawyer, but just then the door of the manager’s office opened and the deputy-director entered the room with a loud laugh. K. was very embarrassed, although the deputy-director, of course, was not laughing at K.’s documents, which he knew nothing about, but at a joke he had just heard about the stock-exchange, a joke which needed an illustration if it was to be understood, and now the deputydirector leant over K.’s desk, took his pencil from his hand, and drew the illustration on the writing pad that K. had intended for his ideas about his case.
但当 K. 有信心尝试并完成这一切时，撰写文件的难度对他来说太大了。早些时候，就在大约一周前，他一想到要自己写出这样的文件，就只能感到羞愧；他从来没有想到这项任务也可能很困难。他记得有一天早上，工作已经堆积如山，他突然把所有东西都推到一边，拿起一张纸，在上面勾勒出他对此类文件应该如何处理的一些想法。也许他会把它们送给那个迟钝的律师，但就在这时，经理办公室的门打开了，副主任笑着走进了房间。 K.很尴尬，虽然副主任当然不是在笑K.的文件，他对这些文件一无所知，而是在笑他刚刚听到的关于证券交易所的笑话，一个需要一个笑话。如果要理解的话，那就是插图，现在副局长靠在K.的桌子上，从他手里接过铅笔，在写字板上画了插图，K.本来是为了表达他对案件的想法。

K. now had no more thoughts of shame, the documents had to be prepared and submitted. If, as was very likely, he could find no time to do it in the office he would have to do it at home at night. If the nights weren’t enough he would have to take a holiday. Above he could not stop half way, that was nonsense not only in business but always and everywhere. Needless to say, the documents would mean an almost endless amount of work. It was easy to come to the belief, not only for those of an anxious disposition, that it was impossible ever to finish it. This was not because of laziness or deceit, which were the only things that might have hindered the lawyer in preparing it, but because he did not know what the charge was or even what consequences it might bring, so that he had to remember every tiny action and event from the whole of his life, looking at them from all sides and checking and reconsidering them. It was also a very disheartening job. It would have been more suitable as a way of passing the long days after he had retired and become senile. But now, just when K. needed to apply all his thoughts to his work, when he was still rising and already posed a threat to the deputy-director, when every hour passed so quickly and he wanted to enjoy the brief evenings and nights as a young man, this was the time he had to start working out these documents. Once more, he began to feel resentment. Almost involuntarily, only to put an end to it, his finger felt for the button of the electric bell in the ante-room. As he pressed it he glanced up to the clock. It was eleven o’clock, two hours, he had spent a great deal of his costly time just dreaming and his wits were, of course, even more dulled than they had been before. But the time had, nonetheless, not been wasted, he had come to some decisions that could be of value. As well as various pieces of mail, the servitors brought two visiting cards from gentlemen who had already been waiting for K. for some time. They were actually very important clients of the bank who should not really have been kept waiting under any circumstances. Why had they come at such an awkward time, and why, the gentlemen on the other side of the closed door seemed to be asking, was the industrious K. using up the best business time for his private affairs? Tired from what had gone before, and tired in anticipation of what was to follow, K. stood up to receive the first of them.
K.现在已经不再有羞耻的想法了，文件必须准备好并提交。如果他没有时间在办公室做这件事（很可能是这样），那么他就只能晚上在家里做。如果夜晚还不够，他就得去度假。在上面他不能半途而废，这不仅在商业上是无稽之谈，而且在任何时候、任何地方都是无稽之谈。不用说，这些文件意味着几乎无穷无尽的工作量。不仅对于那些焦虑的人来说，很容易就相信这是不可能完成的。这并不是因为懒惰或欺骗，这些是唯一可能阻碍律师准备的因素，而是因为他不知道指控是什么，甚至不知道会带来什么后果，所以他必须记住每一个微小的细节。他一生中的行为和事件，从各个方面观察并检查和重新考虑它们。这也是一项非常令人沮丧的工作。在他退休、衰老之后，这更适合作为一种打发漫长岁月的方式。但现在，正当K需要全身心投入到工作中时，当他还在崛起，已经对副局长构成威胁时，当每个小时都过得如此之快，他想要享受短暂的夜晚和夜晚时，作为一个年轻人，现在是他必须开始制定这些文件的时候了。他再一次开始产生怨恨。几乎是不由自主地，他的手指摸到了前厅的电铃按钮，才结束了这一切。当他按下按钮时，他抬头看了一眼时钟。现在已经十一点了，两个小时，他大部分的宝贵时间都花在了做梦上，当然，他的理智比以前更加迟钝了。 但无论如何，时间并没有被浪费，他做出了一些可能有价值的决定。除了各种邮件之外，仆人们还带来了两张名片，这些名片是先生们寄来的，这些先生们已经在等待K.一段时间了。他们实际上是银行非常重要的客户，在任何情况下都不应该让他们等待。为什么他们在这么尴尬的时间来了？为什么，关着门的另一边的先生们似乎在问，勤劳的K是不是把最好的工作时间都用在了他的私人事务上？ K. 对之前发生的事情感到厌倦，对即将发生的事情也感到厌倦，他站起来迎接他们中的第一个人。

He was a short, jolly man, a manufacturer who K. knew well. He apologised for disturbing K. at some important work, and K., for his part, apologised for having kept the manufacturer waiting for so long. But even this apology was spoken in such a mechanical way and with such false intonation that the manufacturer would certainly have noticed if he had not been fully preoccupied with his business affairs. Instead, he hurriedly pulled calculations and tables out from all his pockets, spread them out in front of K., explained several items, corrected a little mistake in the arithmetic that he noticed as he quickly glanced over it all, and reminded K. of a similar piece of business he’d concluded with him about a year before, mentioning in passing that this time there was another bank spending great effort to get his business, and finally stopped speaking in order to learn K.’s opinion on the matter. And K. had indeed, at first, been closely following what the manufacturer was saying, he too was aware of how important the deal was, but unfortunately it did not last, he soon stopped listening, nodded at each of the manufacturer’s louder exclamations for a short while, but eventually he stopped doing even that and did no more than stare at the bald head bent over the papers, asking himself when the manufacturer would finally realise that everything he was saying was useless. When he did stop talking, K. really thought at first that this was so that he would have the chance to confess that he was incapable of listening. Instead, seeing the anticipation on the manufacturer’s face, obviously ready to counter any objections made, he was sorry to realise that the business discussion had to be continued. So he bent his head as if he’d been given an order and began slowly to move his pencil over the papers, now and then he would stop and stare at one of the figures. The manufacturer thought there must be some objection, perhaps his figures weren’t really sound, perhaps they weren’t the decisive issue, whatever he thought, the manufacturer covered the papers with his hand and began once again, moving very close to K., to explain what the deal was all about. “It is difficult,” said K., pursing his lips. The only thing that could offer him any guidance were the papers, and the manufacturer had covered them from his view, so he just sank back against the arm of the chair. Even when the door of the manager’s office opened and revealed not very clearly, as if through a veil, the deputy director, he did no more than look up weakly. K. thought no more about the matter, he merely watched the immediate effect of the deputy director’s appearance and, for him, the effect was very pleasing; the manufacturer immediately jumped up from his seat and hurried over to meet the deputy director, although K. would have liked to make him ten times livelier as he feared the deputy director might disappear again. He need not have worried, the two gentlemen met each other, shook each other’s hand and went together over to K.’s desk. The manufacturer said he was sorry to find the chief clerk so little inclined to do business, pointing to K. who, under the view of the deputy director, had bent back down over the papers. As the two men leant over the desk and the manufacturer made some effort to gain and keep the deputy director’s attention, K. felt as if they were much bigger than they really were and that their negotiations were about him. Carefully and slowly turning his eyes upwards, he tried to learn what was taking place above him, took one of the papers from his desk without looking to see what it was, lay it on the flat of his hand and raised it slowly up as he rose up to the level of the two men himself. He had no particular plan in mind as he did this, but merely felt this was how he would act if only he had finished preparing that great document that was to remove his burden entirely. The deputy director had been paying all his attention to the conversation and did no more than glance at the paper, he did not read what was written on it at all as what was important for the chief clerk was not important for him, he took it from K.’s hand saying, “Thank you, I’m already familiar with everything”, and lay it calmly back on the desk. K. gave him a bitter, sideways look. But the deputy director did not notice this at all, or if he did notice it it only raised his spirits, he frequently laughed out loud, one time he clearly embarrassed the manufacturer when he raised an objection in a witty way but drew him immediately back out of his embarrassment by commenting adversely on himself, and finally invited him into his office where they could bring the matter to its conclusion. “It’s a very important matter,” said the manufacturer. “I understand that completely. And I’m sure the chief clerk …” even as he said this he was actually speaking only to the manufacturer “will be very glad to have us take it off his hands. This is something that needs calm consideration. But he seems to be over-burdened today, there are even some people in the room outside who’ve been waiting there for hours for him.” K. still had enough control of himself to turn away from the deputy director and direct his friendly, albeit stiff, smile only at the manufacturer, he made no other retaliation, bent down slightly and supported himself with both hands on his desk like a clerk, and watched as the two gentlemen, still talking, took the papers from his desk and disappeared into the manager’s office. In the doorway, the manufacturer turned and said he wouldn’t make his farewell with K. just yet, he would of course let the chief clerk know about the success of his discussions but he also had a little something to tell him about.
他身材矮小，性格开朗，是一位 K. 很熟悉的制造商。他为打扰 K. 进行一些重要工作而道歉，而 K. 则为让制造商等了这么久而道歉。但即使是这样的道歉，也是以如此机械的方式和如此错误的语调说出来的，如果制造商不是全神贯注于他的生意，他肯定会注意到他。而是急忙从口袋里掏出算术表和表格，摊在K面前，解释了几项，纠正了他快速浏览了一下发现的算术中的一个小错误，并提醒K。大约一年前他和他谈过一笔类似的生意，顺便提到这次有另一家银行花了很大力气才得到他的生意，最终不再说话，以了解K.对此事的看法。 。而K.一开始确实很关注厂家的说法，他也知道这笔交易有多么重要，但可惜好景不长，很快他就不再听了，对着厂家的每一次大声喊叫都点了点头。过了一会儿，但最终他甚至不再这样做了，只是盯着低头在文件上的光头，问自己什么时候制造商才能最终意识到他所说的一切都是无用的。当他停止说话时，K.一开始真的以为这是为了让他有机会承认自己无法倾听。相反，看到制造商脸上的期待，显然准备反驳任何反对意见，他很遗憾地意识到业务讨论必须继续下去。 于是他低下头，仿佛接到了命令，开始慢慢地在纸上移动铅笔，时不时地停下来盯着其中一个人物。制造商认为一定有人反对，也许他的数据不太合理，也许这不是决定性的问题，不管他怎么想，制造商用手盖住文件，重新开始，距离K很近。 ，解释这笔交易的全部内容。 “这很难，”K. 抿着嘴唇说道。唯一能给他提供任何指导的是文件，而制造商把它们遮住了，让他看不到，所以他只是靠在椅子的扶手上。即便是当经理办公室的门打开，透过面纱般不太清楚地露出副主任时，他也只是有气无力地抬起头。 K.没有再多想这件事，他只是看着副局长出现的立竿见影的效果，对他来说，效果很不错；制造商立即从座位上跳起来，急忙跑过去迎接副厂长，尽管K.想让他热闹十倍，因为他担心副厂长会再次消失。他不用担心，两位先生见面了，握了握对方的手，一起走到了K的办公桌前。制造商说，他很遗憾地发现首席文员不太愿意做生意，并指着K.，K.在副主任的注视下，又弯下腰来处理文件。当两个人靠在桌子上，制造商做出一些努力来吸引并保持副主任的注意力时，K. 感觉他们比实际情况要大得多，而且他们的谈判是关于他的。 他小心翼翼地慢慢地向上转动眼睛，试图了解头顶上发生的事情，看都没看就从桌上拿起一张纸，放在手掌上，慢慢举起。提升到了两人的水平。当他这样做时，他心里并没有什么特别的计划，只是觉得如果他完成了那份伟大的文件的准备，这就是他会采取的行动，这将完全消除他的负担。副局长一直全神贯注地听着谈话，只是看了一眼纸上的内容，根本没有看上面写的东西，因为对于书记员来说重要的事情对于他来说并不重要，他就拿走了。从K.的手中接过“谢谢你，我已经熟悉了一切”，然后平静地把它放回桌子上。 K. 苦涩地斜视了他一眼。但副厂长根本没有注意到这一点，或者说注意到了也只是提振了精神，频频哈哈大笑，有一次他俏皮地提出异议，却又立即拉回厂家，明显让厂家难堪。出于对自己的负面评论而感到尴尬，最后邀请他到他的办公室，在那里他们可以结束这件事。 “这是一件非常重要的事情，”制造商说。 “我完全理解这一点。我确信首席职员……”即使他这么说，他实际上只是在对制造商说话，“会很高兴让我们把它从他手中拿走。这是需要冷静思考的事情。但他今天似乎负担过重，外面房间里甚至有人已经等了他好几个小时了。” K. 他还是有足够的自制力，从副厂长身边转过身来，只对着制造商露出友好但僵硬的微笑，他没有做出其他报复，微微弯下腰，双手撑在桌子上，像个职员一样，看着两位仍在交谈的绅士从他的办公桌上拿走文件，消失在经理办公室里。门口，厂家转过身来，表示暂时不会和K告别，他当然会让秘书知道他的讨论是否成功，但他也有一些事情要告诉他。

At last, K. was by himself. It did not enter his head to show anyone else into his office and only became vaguely aware of how nice it was that the people outside thought he was still negotiating with the manufacturer and, for this reason, he could not let anyone in to see him, not even the servitor. He went over to the window, sat down on the ledge beside it, held firmly on to the handle and looked down onto the square outside. The snow was still falling, the weather still had not brightened up at all.
最后，K. 独自一人了。他并没有想到要带其他人进入他的办公室，只是隐隐约约地意识到，外面的人以为他还在和制造商谈判，这真是太好了，因此，他不能让任何人进来见他。 ，连仆人也不行。他走到窗前，坐在窗边的窗台上，紧紧握住把手，俯视着外面的广场。雪还在下，天色还没有完全放亮。

He remained a long time sitting in this way, not knowing what it actually was that made him so anxious, only occasionally did he glance, slightly startled, over his shoulder at the door to the outer room where, mistakenly, he thought he’d heard some noise. No-one came, and that made him feel calmer, he went over to the wash stand, rinsed his face with cold water and, his head somewhat clearer, went back to his place by the window. The decision to take his defence into his own hands now seemed more of a burden than he had originally assumed. All the while he had left his defence up to the lawyer his trial had had little basic affect on him, he had observed it from afar as something that was scarcely able to reach him directly, when it suited him he looked to see how things stood but he was also able to draw his head back again whenever he wanted. Now, in contrast, if he was to conduct his defence himself, he would have to devote himself entirely to the court for the time being, at least success would mean, later on, his complete and conclusive liberation, but if he was to achieve this he would have to place himself, to start with, in far greater danger than he had been in so far. If he ever felt tempted to doubt this, then his experience with the deputy director and the manufacturer that day would be quite enough to convince him of it. How could he have sat there totally convinced of the need to do his own defence? How would it be later? What would his life be like in the days ahead? Would he find the way through it all to a happy conclusion? Did a carefully worked out defence and any other sort would have made no sense did a carefully worked out defence not also mean he would need to shut himself off from everything else as much as he could? Would he survive that? And how was he to succeed in conducting all this at the bank? It involved much more than just submitting some documents that he could probably prepare in a few days’ leave, although it would have been great temerity to ask for time off from the bank just at that time, it was a whole trial and there was no way of seeing how long it might last. This was an enormous difficulty that had suddenly been thrown into K.’s life!
他就这样坐了很长时间，不知道到底是什么让他如此焦虑，只是偶尔略带惊讶地回头看看外屋的门，他错误地以为自己在外屋的门口。听到一些噪音。没人来，他心里平静了一些，走到洗脸台前，用冷水洗了把脸，脑子清醒了一些，又回到了靠窗的位置。现在，决定自己辩护的决定似乎比他最初设想的更加沉重。一直以来，他都将辩护留给律师，他的审判对他几乎没有什么基本影响，他从远处观察到这一点，几乎无法直接接触到他，当适合他的时候，他会看看事情的进展如何。但只要他愿意，他也可以把头缩回来。相比之下，现在如果他自己去辩护的话，他就必须暂时全身心地投入到法庭之中，至少成功意味着日后他会得到彻底的、决定性的解放，但如果他要实现这一目标，首先，他将不得不将自己置于比迄今为止更大的危险之中。如果他曾经怀疑过这一点，那么那天与副厂长和制造商的经历就足以让他相信这一点。他怎么能坐在那里完全相信有必要为自己辩护呢？以后会怎样呢？未来的日子他的生活会是什么样子呢？他能找到解决这一切的方法并获得幸福的结局吗？难道精心设计的防守和任何其他形式都毫无意义吗？精心设计的防守不也意味着他需要尽可能地将自己与其他一切隔绝吗？他能活下来吗？ 他如何在银行成功地完成这一切？这不仅仅是提交一些文件，他可能可以在几天的假期中准备好，尽管当时向银行请假是非常鲁莽的，但这是一个完整的试验，没有任何帮助。看看它能持续多久的方法。这对于K.的生活来说，是一个巨大的困难！

And was he supposed to be doing the bank’s work at a time like this? He looked down at his desk. Was he supposed to let people in to see him and go into negotiations with them at a time like this? While his trial trundled on, while the court officials upstairs in the attic room sat looking at the papers for this trial, should he be worrying about the business of the bank? Did this not seem like a kind of torture, acknowledged by the court, connected with the trial and which followed him around? And is it likely that anyone in the bank, when judging his work, would take any account of his peculiar situation? Noone and never. There were those who knew about his trial, although it was not quite clear who knew about it or how much. But he hoped rumours had not reached as far as the deputy director, otherwise he would obviously soon find a way of making use of it to harm K., he would show neither comradeship nor humaneness. And what about the director? It was true that he was well disposed towards K., and as soon as he heard about the trial he would probably try to do everything he could to make it easier for him, but he would certainly not devote himself to it. K. at one time had provided the counter-balance to what the deputy director said but the director was now coming more and more under his influence, and the deputy director would also exploit the weakened condition of the director to strengthen his own power. So what could K. hope for? Maybe considerations of this sort weakened his power of resistance, but it was still necessary not to deceive oneself and to see everything as clearly as it could be seen at that moment.
而且这种时候他应该做银行的工作吗？他低头看着自己的办公桌。这种时候是不是应该让人进去见他，跟他们谈判？当他的审判继续进行时，当楼上阁楼的法院官员坐在审阅文件时，他应该担心银行的业务吗？这难道不是一种法庭承认的、与审判有关、并伴随着他的酷刑吗？银行里的任何人在评判他的工作时是否会考虑到他的特殊情况？没有人，也从来没有。有些人知道他的审判，尽管不清楚谁知道或知道多少。但他希望谣言没有传到副局长那里，否则他显然很快就会想出办法来伤害K，既没有同志情谊，也没有人性。那么导演呢？诚然，他对K.很有好感，一旦听到审判的消息，他可能会想尽一切办法让K.好受一些，但他肯定不会全身心投入其中。 K曾经对副局长的言论起到了制衡作用，但现在局长越来越受到他的影响，而副局长也会利用局长的弱势来增强自己的权力。那么K. 还能指望什么呢？或许这样的考虑削弱了他的抵抗力，但还是要不要自欺欺人，把一切都看清此刻的情况。

For no particular reason, just to avoiding returning to his desk for a while, he opened the window. It was difficult to open and he had to turn the handle with both his hands. Then, through the whole height and breadth of the window, the mixture of fog and smoke was drawn into the room, filling it with a slight smell of burning. A few flakes of snow were blown in with it. “It’s a horrible autumn,” said the manufacturer, who had come into the room unnoticed after seeing the deputy director and now stood behind K. K. nodded and looked uneasily at the manufacturer’s briefcase, from which he would now probably take the papers and inform K. of the result of his negotiations with the deputy director. However, the manufacturer saw where K. was looking, knocked on his briefcase and without opening it said, “You’ll be wanting to hear how things turned out. I’ve already got the contract in my pocket, almost. He’s a charming man, your deputy director he’s got his dangers, though.” He laughed as he shook K.’s hand and wanted to make him laugh with him. But to K., it once more seemed suspicious that the manufacturer did not want to show him the papers and saw nothing about his comments to laugh at. “Chief clerk,” said the manufacturer, “I expect the weather’s been affecting your mood, has it? You’re looking so worried today.” “Yes,” said K., raising his hand and holding the temple of his head, “headaches, worries in the family.” “Quite right,” said the manufacturer, who was always in a hurry and could never listen to anyone for very long, “everyone has his cross to bear.” K. had unconsciously made a step towards the door as if wanting to show the manufacturer out, but the manufacturer said, “Chief clerk, there’s something else I’d like to mention to you. I’m very sorry if it’s something that’ll be a burden to you today of all days but I’ve been to see you twice already, lately, and each time I forgot all about it. If I delay it any longer it might well lose its point altogether. That would be a pity, as I think what I’ve got to say does have some value.” Before K. had had the time to answer, the manufacturer came up close to him, tapped his knuckle lightly on his chest and said quietly, “You’ve got a trial going on, haven’t you?” K. stepped back and immediately exclaimed, “That’s what the deputy director’s been telling you!” “No, no,” said the manufacturer, “how would the deputy director know about it?” “And what about you?” asked K., already more in control of himself. “I hear things about the court here and there,” said the manufacturer, “and that even applies to what it is that I wanted to tell you about.” “There are so many people who have connections with the court!” said K. with lowered head, and he led the manufacturer over to his desk. They sat down where they had been before, and the manufacturer said, “I’m afraid it’s not very much that I’ve got to tell you about. Only, in matters like this, it’s best not to overlook the tiniest details. Besides, I really want to help you in some way, however modest my help might be. We’ve been good business partners up till now, haven’t we? Well then.” K. wanted to apologise for his behaviour in the conversation earlier that day, but the manufacturer would tolerate no interruption, shoved his briefcase up high in his armpit to show that he was in a hurry, and carried on. “I know about your case through a certain Titorelli. He’s a painter, Titorelli’s just his artistic name, I don’t even know what his real name is. He’s been coming to me in my office for years from time to time, and brings little pictures with him which I buy more or less just for the sake of charity as he’s hardly more than a beggar. And they’re nice pictures, too, moorland landscapes and that sort of thing. We’d both got used to doing business in this way and it always went smoothly. Only, one time these visits became a bit too frequent, I began to tell him off for it, we started talking and I became interested how it was that he could earn a living just by painting, and then I learned to my amazement that his main source of income was painting portraits. ‘I work for the court,’ he said, ‘what court?’ said I. And that’s when he told me about the court. I’m sure you can imagine how amazed I was at being told all this. Ever since then I learn something new about the court every time he comes to visit, and so little by little I get to understand something of how it works. Anyway, Titorelli talks a lot and I often have to push him away, not only because he’s bound to be lying but also, most of all, because a businessman like me who’s already close to breaking point under the weight of his own business worries can’t pay too much attention to other people’s. But all that’s just by the by. Perhaps this is what I’ve been thinking perhaps Titorelli might be able to help you in some small way, he knows lots of judges and even if he can’t have much influence himself he can give you some advice about how to get some influential people on your side. And even if this advice doesn’t turn out to make all the difference I still think it’ll be very important once you’ve got it. You’re nearly a lawyer yourself. That’s what I always say, Mr. K. the chief clerk is nearly a lawyer. Oh I’m sure this trial of yours will turn out all right. So do you want to go and see Titorelli, then? If I ask him to he’ll certainly do everything he possibly can. I really do think you ought to go. It needn’t be today, of course, just some time, when you get the chance. And anyway I want to tell you this too you don’t actually have to go and see Titorelli, this advice from me doesn’t place you under any obligation at all. No, if you think you can get by without Titorelli it’ll certainly be better to leave him completely out of it. Maybe you’ve already got a clear idea of what you’re doing and Titorelli could upset your plans. No, if that’s the case then of course you shouldn’t go there under any circumstances! And it certainly won’t be easy to take advice from a lad like that. Still, it’s up to you. Here’s the letter of recommendation and here’s the address.”
没有什么特别的原因，只是为了暂时避免回到办公桌前，他打开了窗户。打开很困难，他必须用双手转动把手。然后，雾气和烟雾的混合物透过整个窗户的高度和宽度，被吸入房间内，充满了轻微的烧焦味。几片雪花也随之被吹了进来。 “这是一个可怕的秋天，”制造商说，他在见到副主任后不知不觉地走进房间，现在站在 K 身后。 K 点点头，不安地看着制造商的公文包，他现在可能会从里面取出文件并通知 K。与副主任谈判的结果。然而，制造商看到了 K. 的目光，敲了敲他的公文包，没有打开它，说道：“你会想听听事情的结果。我几乎已经把合同装进口袋了。他是个很有魅力的人，但你的副主任他也有危险。”他一边笑一边握着K的手，想让他和自己一起笑。但对 K. 来说，这家制造商不想给他看这些文件，也没有看到他的评论有什么值得嘲笑的地方，这似乎再次令人怀疑。 “店长，”制造商说道，“我想天气已经影响了您的心情，是吗？你今天看起来很担心。” “是的，”K. 举起手按住太阳穴，“头疼，家里有事。” “完全正确，”制造商说，他总是很匆忙，永远不会长时间倾听任何人的意见，“每个人都有自己的十字架要背负。” K.无意识地向门口迈了一步，似乎想带厂家出去，但厂家却说道：“店长，我还有件事想跟你说一下。” 如果这件事今天会给你带来负担，我很抱歉，但最近我已经见过你两次了，每次我都忘记了这件事。如果我再拖延下去，它很可能会完全失去意义。那会很遗憾，因为我认为我所说的确实有一些价值。” K.还没来得及回答，制造商就走到他身边，用指关节轻轻敲了敲他的胸口，低声说道：“你正在进行审判，不是吗？” K.退后一步，立刻惊呼道：“副局长就是这么跟你说的！” “不不，”厂家说道，“副厂长怎么会知道呢？” “那你呢？” K.问道，他已经能更好地控制自己了。 “我到处都听到有关法院的事情，”制造商说，“这甚至适用于我想告诉你的事情。” “和朝廷有关系的人真多啊！” K低着头说道，然后他带领制造商来到他的办公桌前。他们在原来的位置坐下来，制造商说：“恐怕我要告诉你们的事情并不多。只是，在这种事情上，最好不要忽视最微小的细节。此外，我真的很想以某种方式帮助你，无论我的帮助有多小。到目前为止我们一直是很好的商业伙伴，不是吗？好吧。” K. 想为他当天早些时候谈话中的行为道歉，但制造商不会容忍任何打扰，他将公文包高高地放在腋下，以表明他很匆忙，然后继续说道。 “我通过某个蒂托雷利知道了你的案子。他是一位画家，蒂托雷利只是他的艺名，我什至不知道他的真名是什么。 多年来，他时不时地到我的办公室来找我，随身带着一些小照片，我买这些照片或多或少只是为了慈善事业，因为他只不过是一个乞丐。它们也是不错的照片，荒野风景之类的。我们都习惯了以这种方式做生意，而且总是进展顺利。只是，有一次这些拜访变得有点过于频繁，我开始责备他，我们开始交谈，我开始感兴趣他是如何仅靠绘画谋生的，然后我惊讶地发现他主要收入来源是画肖像。 “我为法院工作，”他说，“哪个法院？”我说。就在那时，他告诉了我有关法院的事情。我相信你可以想象当我得知这一切时我是多么惊讶。从那时起，每次他来参观时，我都会对法庭有一些新的了解，渐渐地，我开始了解它是如何运作的。无论如何，蒂托雷利话很多，我常常不得不把他推开，不仅因为他肯定会撒谎，而且最重要的是，因为像我这样的商人，在自己的生意忧虑的重压下已经接近崩溃的边缘不要太在意别人的。但这一切都只是顺便而已。也许这就是我一直在想的，也许蒂托雷利也许能够在一些小方面帮助你，他认识很多法官，即使他自己不能产生太大的影响力，他也可以给你一些建议，告诉你如何获得一些有影响力的人。你身边的人。即使这个建议最终并没有带来很大的改变，我仍然认为一旦你得到它，它就会非常重要。你自己也快成为一名律师了。这就是我常说的，K先生，首席书记官几乎是一名律师。 噢，我相信你的这次尝试一定会成功。那么你想去看看蒂托雷利吗？如果我要求他这样做，他一定会尽其所能。我确实认为你应该走。当然，不一定是今天，只要有机会就可以。不管怎样，我也想告诉你，你实际上不必去见蒂托雷利，我的建议并不会让你承担任何义务。不，如果你认为没有蒂托雷利你也能过得去，那当然最好把他完全排除在外。也许你已经清楚地知道自己在做什么，而蒂托雷利可能会打乱你的计划。不，既然如此，那你当然不应该去那里！接受这样的小伙子的建议当然不容易。不过，这取决于你。这是推荐信，这是地址。”

Disappointed, K. took the letter and put it in his pocket. Even at best, the advantage he might derive from this recommendation was incomparably smaller than the damage that lay in the fact of the manufacturer knowing about his trial, and that the painter was spreading the news about. It was all he could mange to give the manufacturer, who was already on his way to the door, a few words of thanks. “I’ll go there,” he said as he took his leave of the manufacturer at the door, “or, as I’m very busy at present, I’ll write to him, perhaps he would like to come to me in my office some time.” “I was sure you’d find the best solution,” said the manufacturer. “Although I had thought you’d prefer to avoid inviting people like this Titorelli to the bank and talking about the trial here. And it’s not always a good idea to send letters to people like Titorelli, you don’t know what might happen to them. But you’re bound to have thought everything through and you know what you can and can’t do.” K. nodded and accompanied the manufacturer on through the ante-room. But despite seeming calm on the outside he was actually very shocked; he had told the manufacturer he would write to Titorelli only to show him in some way that he valued his recommendations and would consider the opportunity to speak with Titorelli without delay, but if he had thought Titorelli could offer any worthwhile assistance he would not have delayed. But it was only the manufacturer’s comment that made K. realise what dangers that could lead to. Was he really able to rely on his own understanding so little? If it was possible that he might invite a questionable character into the bank with a clear letter, and ask advice from him about his trial, separated from the deputy director by no more than a door, was it not possible or even very likely that there were also other dangers he had failed to see or that he was even running towards? There was not always someone beside him to warn him. And just now, just when he would have to act with all the strength he could muster, now a number of doubts of a sort he had never before known had presented themselves and affected his own vigilance! The difficulties he had been feeling in carrying out his office work; were they now going to affect the trial too? Now, at least, he found himself quite unable to understand how he could have intended to write to Titorelli and invite him into the bank.
K. 失望地接过信，放进口袋里。即使在最好的情况下，他从这个建议中获得的好处也比制造商知道他的试验以及油漆工传播这一消息所造成的损失要小得多。他只能对已经上门的制造商说几句感谢的话。 “我会去那里，”他在门口告别制造商时说，“或者，因为我现在很忙，我会写信给他，也许他愿意来找我。”有时间我办公室。” “我确信你会找到最好的解决方案，”制造商说。 “虽然我原以为你宁愿避免邀请像蒂托雷利这样的人来银行并在这里谈论审判。给蒂托雷利这样的人写信并不总是一个好主意，你不知道他们会发生什么。但你一定已经把一切都想清楚了，你知道自己能做什么、不能做什么。” K. 点点头，陪制造商穿过接待室。但表面上看似平静，实则内心十分震惊。他告诉制造商，他只会写信给蒂托雷利，只是为了以某种方式向他表明他重视他的建议，并会立即考虑与蒂托雷利交谈的机会，但如果他认为蒂托雷利可以提供任何有价值的帮助，他就不会拖延。但只有制造商的评论才让 K. 意识到这可能会导致什么危险。他真的能靠自己的悟性这么少吗？ 如果他可以用一封明确的信邀请一个有问题的人物进入银行，并就他的审判向他征求意见，与副局长仅一扇门之隔，这不是不可能甚至很有可能吗？还有其他他没有看到或者他正在奔向的危险吗？他身边并不总是有人警告他。而就在此时，正当他要全力以赴的时候，一些他从未有过的疑惑却出现了，影响了他的警惕！他在执行办公室工作时遇到的困难；他们现在也会影响审判吗？至少现在，他发现自己完全无法理解自己怎么会打算写信给蒂托雷利并邀请他进入银行。

He shook his head at the thought of it once more as the servitor came up beside him and drew his attention to the three gentlemen who were waiting on a bench in the ante-room. They had already been waiting to see K. for a long time. Now that the servitor was speaking with K. they had stood up and each of them wanted to make use of the opportunity to see K. before the others. It had been negligent of the bank to let them waste their time here in the waiting room, but none of them wanted to draw attention to this. “Mr. K., …” one of them was saying, but K. had told the servitor to fetch his winter coat and said to the three of them, as the servitor helped him to put it on, “Please forgive me, gentlemen, I’m afraid I have no time to see you at present. Please do forgive me but I have some urgent business to settle and have to leave straight away. You’ve already seen yourselves how long I’ve been delayed. Would you be so kind as to come back tomorrow or some time? Or perhaps we could settle your affairs by telephone? Or perhaps you would like to tell me now, briefly, what it’s about and I can then give you a full answer in writing. Whatever, the best thing will be for you to come here again.” The gentlemen now saw that their wait had been totally pointless, and these suggestions of K.’s left them so astounded that they looked at each other without a word. “That’s agreed then, is it?” asked K., who had turned toward the servitor bringing him his hat. Through the open door of K.’s office they could see that the snowfall outside had become much heavier. So K. turned the collar of his coat up and buttoned it up high under his chin. Just then the deputy director came out of the adjoining room, smiled as he saw K. negotiating with the gentlemen in his winter coat, and asked, “Are you about to go out?” “Yes,” said K., standing more upright, “I have to go out on some business.” But the deputy director had already turned towards the gentlemen. “And what about these gentlemen?” he asked. “I think they’ve already been waiting quite a long time.” “We’ve already come to an understanding,” said K. But now the gentlemen could be held back no longer, they surrounded K. and explained that they would not have been waiting for hours if it had not been about something important that had to be discussed now, at length and in private. The deputy director listened to them for a short while, he also looked at K. as he held his hat in his hand cleaning the dust off it here and there, and then he said, “Gentlemen, there is a very simple way to solve this. If you would prefer it, I’ll be very glad to take over these negotiations instead of the chief clerk. Your business does, of course, need to be discussed without delay. We are businessmen like yourselves and know the value of a businessman’s time. Would you like to come this way?” And he opened the door leading to the ante-room of his own office.
当仆人走到他身边并让他注意在前厅的长凳上等候的三位绅士时，他再次摇头。他们为了见到K.已经等了很长时间了。现在仆人正在和K说话，他们都站了起来，每个人都想利用这个机会先见见K。让他们在候诊室里浪费时间，确实是银行的疏忽，但他们谁也不想引起人们的注意。 “先生。 K.，……”其中一个正在说，但K.已经让仆人取来他的冬衣，当仆人帮他穿上时，K.对他们三个说：“请原谅，先生们，我”恐怕我现在没有时间见你。请原谅我，但我有一些紧急事务要处理，必须立即离开。你们已经看到我被耽搁了多久了。您明天或什么时候再来可以吗？或者我们可以通过电话解决您的事务吗？或者，也许您现在想简单地告诉我它的内容，然后我可以给您书面的完整答复。不管怎样，你能再次来到这里是最好的事情。”先生们现在发现他们的等待完全没有意义，K.的这些建议让他们大吃一惊，彼此面面相觑，一言不发。 “那就这么约定了，是吗？” K.问道，他转向了给他送来帽子的仆人。透过K办公室开着的门，他们可以看到外面的雪下得更大了。于是K.把外套的领子翻起来，把扣子高高地扣在下巴下面。就在这时，副主任从隔壁房间走了出来，看到K，笑了。 与穿着冬衣的先生们交涉，问道：“你们要出去吗？” “是的，”K说，站得更直了，“我有事要出去。”但副局长已经转向了几位先生。 “那这些先生们呢？”他问。 “我想他们已经等了很长时间了。” “我们已经达成共识了。”K 说。但是现在先生们再也不能再犹豫了，他们围住了 K。并解释说，如果不是因为有什么重要的事情，他们就不会等几个小时。现在将进行详细的私下讨论。副局长听了一会儿，也看了看K，手里拿着帽子，把帽子上到处的灰尘都清理干净，然后说道：“先生们，有一个很简单的办法可以解决。”这。如果您愿意，我很乐意代替首席书记员接管这些谈判。当然，您的业务确实需要立即讨论。我们和你们一样都是商人，知道商人时间的价值。你愿意从这边过来吗？”他打开了通往他自己办公室前厅的门。

The deputy director seemed very good at appropriating everything that K. was now forced to give up! But was K. not giving up more than he absolutely had to? By running off to some unknown painter, with, as he had to admit, very little hope of any vague benefit, his renown was suffering damage that could not me repaired. It would probably be much better to take off his winter coat again and, at the very least, try to win back the two gentlemen who were certainly still waiting in the next room. If K. had not then glimpsed the deputy director in his office, looking for something from his bookshelves as if they were his own, he would probably even have made the attempt. As K., somewhat agitated, approached the door the deputy director called out, “Oh, you’ve still not left!” He turned his face toward him its many deep folds seemed to show strength rather than age and immediately began once more to search. “I’m looking for a copy of a contract,” he said, “which this gentleman insists you must have. Could you help me look for it, do you think?” K. made a step forward, but the deputy director said, “thank you, I’ve already found it,” and with a big package of papers, which certainly must have included many more documents than just the copy of the contract, he turned and went back into his own office.
副局长似乎很擅长挪用K.现在被迫放弃的一切！但 K. 放弃的难道不是超出他绝对必须放弃的吗？他不得不承认，由于跑到某个不知名的画家那里​​，几乎没有希望获得任何模糊的好处，他的名誉受到了我无法修复的损害。最好还是再脱掉他的冬衣，至少，试着赢回肯定还在隔壁房间等着的两位先生。如果K.当时没有瞥见副主任在他的办公室里，像在自己的书架上寻找东西一样，他甚至可能会做出这样的尝试。当K有些激动地走到门口时，副局长喊道：“哦，你还没走！”他把脸转向自己，脸上的许多深深的褶皱似乎显示出力量而不是年龄，并立即开始再次寻找。 “我正在寻找一份合同副本，”他说，“这位先生坚持认为你必须拥有这份合同。你觉得可以帮我找找吗？” K.向前迈了一步，但副主任说：“谢谢，我已经找到了。”然后他拿着一大包文件，其中肯定包含了比合同副本更多的文件。转身回到自己的办公室。

“I can’t deal with him right now,” K. said to himself, “but once my personal difficulties have been settled, then he’ll certainly be the first to get the effect of it, and he certainly won’t like it.” Slightly calmed by these thoughts, K. gave the servitor, who had already long been holding the door to the corridor open for him, the task of telling the director, when he was able, that K. was going out of the bank on a business matter. As he left the bank he felt almost happy at the thought of being able to devote more of himself to his own business for a while.
“我现在对付不了他，”K自言自语道，“但是一旦我个人的困难解决了，那么他肯定是第一个受到影响的，他肯定不会喜欢的。”它。”这些想法使K稍微平静下来，K.给早已为他打开走廊门的仆人安排了一个任务，当他有能力时，告诉主管K.正要离开银行。商业问题。当他离开银行时，一想到能够在一段时间内将更多的精力投入到自己的事业中，他几乎感到高兴。

He went straight to the painter, who lived in an outlying part of town which was very near to the court offices, although this area was even poorer, the houses were darker, the streets were full of dirt that slowly blew about over the half-melted snow. In the great gateway to the building where the painter lived only one of the two doors was open, a hole had been broken open in the wall by the other door, and as K. approached it a repulsive, yellow, steaming liquid shot out causing some rats to scurry away into the nearby canal. Down by the staircase there was a small child lying on its belly crying, but it could hardly be heard because of the noise from a metal-workshop on the other side of the entrance hall, drowning out any other sound. The door to the workshop was open, three workers stood in a circle around some piece of work that they were beating with hammers. A large tin plate hung on the wall, casting a pale light that pushed its way in between two of the workers, lighting up their faces and their work-aprons. K. did no more that glance at any of these things, he wanted to get things over with here as soon as possible, to exchange just a few words to find out how things stood with the painter and go straight back to the bank. Even if he had just some tiny success here it would still have a good effect on his work at the bank for that day. On the third floor he had to slow down his pace, he was quite out of breath the steps, just like the height of each floor, were much higher than they needed to be and he’d been told that the painter lived right up in the attic. The air was also quite oppressive, there was no proper stairwell and the narrow steps were closed in by walls on both sides with no more than a small, high window here and there. Just as K. paused for a while some young girls ran out of one of the flats and rushed higher up the stairs, laughing. K. followed them slowly, caught up with one of the girls who had stumbled and been left behind by the others, and asked her as they went up side by side, “Is there a painter, Titorelli, who lives here?” The girl, hardly thirteen years old and somewhat hunchbacked, jabbed him with her elbow and looked at him sideways. Her youth and her bodily defects had done nothing to stop her being already quite depraved. She did not smile once, but looked at K. earnestly, with sharp, acquisitive eyes. K. pretended not to notice her behaviour and asked, “Do you know Titorelli, the painter?” She nodded and asked in reply, “What d’you want to see him for?” K. thought it would be to his advantage quickly to find out something more about Titorelli. “I want to have him paint my portrait,” he said. “Paint your portrait?” she asked, opening her mouth too wide and lightly hitting K. with her hand as if he had said something extraordinarily surprising or clumsy, with both hands she lifted her skirt, which was already very short, and, as fast as she could, she ran off after the other girls whose indistinct shouts lost themselves in the heights. At the next turn of the stairs, however, K. encountered all the girls once more. The hunchbacked girl had clearly told them about K.’s intentions and they were waiting for him. They stood on both sides of the stairs, pressing themselves against the wall so that K. could get through between them, and smoothed their aprons down with their hands. All their faces, even in this guard of honour, showed a mixture of childishness and depravity. Up at the head of the line of girls, who now, laughing, began to close in around K., was the hunchback who had taken on the role of leader. It was thanks to her that K. found the right direction without delay he would have continued up the stairs straight in front of him, but she showed him that to reach Titorelli he would need to need to turn off to one side. The steps that led up to the painter were especially narrow, very long without any turning, the whole length could be seen in one glance and, at the top, at Titorelli’s closed door, it came to its end. This door was much better illuminated than the rest of the stairway by the light from a small skylight set obliquely above it, it had been put together from unpainted planks of wood and the name ‘Titorelli’ was painted on it in broad, red brushstrokes. K. was no more than half way up the steps, accompanied by his retinue of girls, when, clearly the result of the noise of all those footsteps, the door opened slightly and in the crack a man who seemed to be dressed in just his nightshirt appeared. “Oh!” he cried, when he saw the approaching crowd, and vanished. The hunchbacked girl clapped her hands in glee and the other girls crowded in behind K. to push him faster forward.
他径直去找了画家，画家住在城边，离朝廷很近，虽然这个地方更穷，房子更黑，街道上满是泥土，慢慢地风吹过半边土地。融化的雪。在通往画家居住的建筑物的大门口，只有两扇门中的一扇开着，另一扇门在墙上开了一个洞，当K.接近它时，一股令人厌恶的、黄色的、冒着蒸汽的液体喷射出来，导致一些老鼠逃进附近的运河。楼梯下有一个小孩子趴着哭，但几乎听不见，因为门厅另一边金属车间的噪音盖过了其他任何声音。车间的门开着，三个工人围着一件作品站成一圈，他们正在用锤子敲打一件作品。墙上挂着一块大锡板，发出淡淡的光芒，照进两名工人之间，照亮了他们的脸和工作围裙。 K.不再看这些东西，他想尽快把这里的事情处理掉，简单说几句，了解一下画家的情况，然后直接回银行。即使他在这里取得了一些小小的成功，对他当天在银行的工作也会产生良好的影响。到了三楼，他不得不放慢脚步，他气喘吁吁，台阶和每层楼的高度一样，比应有的高度高出很多，而且听说画家就住在楼上。阁楼。空气也相当压抑，没有合适的楼梯间，狭窄的台阶两边都被墙壁围住，只有一扇又小又高的窗户。正如K. 停顿了一会儿，一些年轻女孩从其中一间公寓里跑出来，笑着冲上楼梯。 K.慢慢地跟在他们后面，追上了其中一个被其他人绊倒的女孩，并肩而上时问她：“这里住着一位画家蒂托雷利吗？”女孩还不到十三岁，有些驼背，用胳膊肘戳了戳他，斜眼看着他。她的年轻和身体上的缺陷并没有阻止她已经相当堕落。她没有笑一次，而是用锐利而贪婪的目光认真地看着K。 K假装没有注意到她的行为，问道：“你认识画家蒂托雷利吗？”她点点头，问道：“你想见他做什么？” K. 认为尽快了解有关蒂托雷利的更多信息会对他有利。 “我想让他为我画肖像，”他说。 “画你的肖像？”她张大了嘴，用手轻轻击打K，仿佛他说了一件极其令人惊讶或笨拙的事情，她用双手掀起已经很短的裙子，并以最快的速度，跟着其他女孩子们，她们发出模糊的叫喊声，在高处迷失了方向。然而，在楼梯的下一个拐角处，K. 再次遇到了所有的女孩。驼背少女已经清楚地告诉了他们K的来意，他们正在等待他。他们站在楼梯两侧，靠在墙上，以便K.可以从他们中间穿过，并用手抚平围裙。即使在这支仪仗队中，他们的脸上也都流露出孩子气和堕落的情绪。走在队伍最前面的女孩们现在笑着开始围拢K。，就是担当领导角色的驼背人。多亏了她，K. 毫不拖延地找到了正确的方向，他本来可以继续走上他面前的楼梯，但她告诉他，要到达蒂托雷利，他需要转向一侧。通向画家的台阶特别窄，很长，没有任何转弯，一眼就能看到整个长度，到了顶端，蒂托雷利紧闭的大门处，就到了尽头。这扇门比楼梯的其他部分要好得多，它的光线来自斜上方的一个小天窗，它是用未上漆的木板拼成的，上面用宽大的红色笔画写着“蒂托雷利”这个名字。 K.在随从的女孩们的陪伴下，刚走上台阶不到一半，门就轻轻地开了，门缝里似乎只穿了他的衣服，这显然是所有这些脚步声的结果。睡衣出现了。 “哦！”当他看到人群逼近时，他大叫一声，然后就消失了。驼背女孩高兴地拍手，其他女孩则挤到K身后，推着他加快前进的速度。

They still had not arrived at the top, however, when the painter up above them suddenly pulled the door wide open and, with a deep bow, invited K. to enter. The girls, on the other hand, he tried to keep away, he did not want to let any of them in however much they begged him and however much they tried to get in if they could not get in with his permission they would try to force their way in against his will. The only one to succeed was the hunchback when she slipped through under his outstretched arm, but the painter chased after her, grabbed her by the skirt, span her once round and set her down again by the door with the other girls who, unlike the first, had not dared to cross the doorstep while the painter had left his post. K. did not know what he was to make of all this, as they all seemed to be having fun. One behind the other, the girls by the door stretched their necks up high and called out various words to the painter which were meant in jest but which K. did not understand, and even the painter laughed as the hunchback whirled round in his hand. Then he shut the door, bowed once more to K., offered him his hand and introduced himself, saying, “Titorelli, painter”. K. pointed to the door, behind which the girls were whispering, and said, “You seem to be very popular in this building.” “Ach, those brats!” said the painter, trying in vain to fasten his nightshirt at the neck. He was also bare-footed and, apart from that, was wearing nothing more than a loose pair of yellowish linen trousers held up with a belt whose free end whipped to and fro. “Those kids are a real burden for me,” he continued. The top button of his nightshirt came off and he gave up trying to fasten it, fetched a chair for K. and made him sit down on it. “I painted one of them once she’s not here today and ever since then they’ve been following me about. If I’m here they only come in when I allow it, but as soon as I’ve gone out there’s always at least one of them in here. They had a key made to my door and lend it round to each other. It’s hard to imagine what a pain that is. Suppose I come back home with a lady I’m going to paint, I open the door with my own key and find the hunchback there or something, by the table painting her lips red with my paintbrush, and meanwhile her little sisters will be keeping guard for her, moving about and causing chaos in every corner of the room. Or else, like happened yesterday, I might come back home late in the evening please forgive my appearance and the room being in a mess, it is to do with them so, I might come home late in the evening and want to go to bed, then I feel something pinching my leg, look under the bed and pull another of them out from under it. I don’t know why it is they bother me like this, I expect you’ve just seen that I do nothing to encourage them to come near me. And they make it hard for me to do my work too, of course. If I didn’t get this studio for nothing I’d have moved out a long time ago.” Just then, a little voice, tender and anxious, called out from under the door, “Titorelli, can we come in now?” “No,” answered the painter. “Not even just me, by myself?” the voice asked again. “Not even just you,” said the painter, as he went to the door and locked it.
然而，他们还没有到达山顶，上面的画家突然把门打开，深深地鞠了一躬，邀请K进来。另一方面，女孩们，他试图远离他们，无论她们多么恳求他，无论她们多么想进去，如果她们不能得到他的允许，他都不想让她们进来。违背他的意愿强行闯入。唯一成功的是驼背，她从他伸出的手臂下溜了进去，但画家追了上去，抓住她的裙子，跨过她一圈，然后又把她和其他女孩一起放在门口，她们和其他女孩不一样。首先，当画家离开岗位时，不敢跨过门阶。 K. 不知道他该如何看待这一切，因为他们似乎都很开心。门边的姑娘们一前一后地伸长脖子，对着画家喊出各种各样的话语，这些话是开玩笑的，但K.听不懂，连画家也笑了，驼背在他手里旋转着。然后他关上门，再次向 K. 鞠了一躬，向他伸出了手并自我介绍说：“蒂托雷利，画家”。 K.指着门后，女孩们正在窃窃私语，说道：“你在这栋楼里看起来很受欢迎。” “啊啊，这群臭小子！”画家说道，徒劳地试图将睡衣系在脖子上。他也赤着脚，除此之外，只穿了一条宽松的淡黄色亚麻裤子，用一条腰带系着，腰带的自由端来回晃动。 “那些孩子对我来说是一个真正的负担，”他继续说道。他睡衣最上面的纽扣掉了下来，他放弃了扣扣子的念头，为K.拿了一把椅子，让他坐在上面。 “当她今天不在这里时，我画了其中的一张，从那时起，他们就一直跟着我。如果我在这里，他们只会在我允许的情况下进来，但只要我出去，这里总是至少有一个人。他们给我做了一把钥匙，并互相借给对方。很难想象那是一种怎样的痛苦。假设我带着一位要画画的女士回家，我用自己的钥匙打开门，发现那里有驼背什么的，在桌子旁用我的画笔把她的嘴唇涂成红色，同时她的小姐妹们会在守护着她，在房间的每个角落里走来走去，制造混乱。否则，就像昨天一样，我可能会很晚回家，请原谅我的样子和房间里的凌乱，这是和他们有关的，所以，我可能会很晚回家，想睡觉，然后我感觉有什么东西捏住了我的腿，我看看床底下，从床底下拉出了另一个。我不知道他们为什么这样打扰我，我希望你刚刚看到我没有做任何事情来鼓励他们靠近我。当然，它们也让我很难完成我的工作。如果我没有白白得到这个工作室，我早就搬出去了。”就在这时，门底下传来一个温柔而焦急的小声音：“蒂托雷利，我们现在可以进来吗？” “不，”画家回答道。 “就连我自己也不行吗？”那声音又问道。 “连你也不行。”画家一边说，一边走到门边，把门锁上。

Meanwhile, K. had been looking round the room, if it had not been pointed out it would never have occurred to him that this wretched little room could be called a studio. It was hardly long enough or broad enough to make two steps. Everything, floor, walls and ceiling, was made of wood, between the planks narrow gaps could be seen. Across from where K. was, the bed stood against the wall under a covering of many different colours. In the middle of the room a picture stood on an easel, covered over with a shirt whose arms dangled down to the ground. Behind K. was the window through which the fog made it impossible to see further than the snow covered roof of the neighbouring building.
与此同时，K.一直在房间里环顾四周，如果不是有人指出，他绝对不会想到这个破烂的小房间可以称为工作室。它不够长或不够宽，无法迈出两步。所有的东西，地板、墙壁和天花板都是木头做的，木板之间可以看到狭窄的缝隙。 K.所在的地方靠墙放着一张床，床上覆盖着许多不同颜色的床单。房间中央的画架上放着一幅画，上面覆盖着一件衬衫，双臂垂在地上。 K后面是一扇窗户，透过窗户，雾气使人无法看到比邻近建筑物被雪覆盖的屋顶更远的地方。

The turning of the key in the lock reminded K. that he had not wanted to stay too long. So he drew the manufacturer’s letter out from his pocket, held it out to the painter and said, “I learned about you from this gentleman, an acquaintance of yours, and it’s on his advice that I’ve come here”. The painter glanced through the letter and threw it down onto the bed. If the manufacturer had not said very clearly that Titorelli was an acquaintance of his, a poor man who was dependent on his charity, then it would really have been quite possible to believe that Titorelli did not know him or at least that he could not remember him. This impression was augmented by the painter’s asking, “Were you wanting to buy some pictures or did you want to have yourself painted?” K. looked at the painter in astonishment. What did the letter actually say? K. had taken it as a matter of course that the manufacturer had explained to the painter in his letter that K. wanted nothing more with him than to find out more about his trial. He had been far too rash in coming here! But now he had to give the painter some sort of answer and, glancing at the easel, said, “Are you working on a picture currently?” “Yes,” said the painter, and he took the shirt hanging over the easel and threw it onto the bed after the letter. “It’s a portrait. Quite a good piece of work, although it’s not quite finished yet.” This was a convenient coincidence for K., it gave him a good opportunity to talk about the court as the picture showed, very clearly, a judge. What’s more, it was remarkably similar to the picture in the lawyer’s office, although this one showed a quite different judge, a heavy man with a full beard which was black and bushy and extended to the sides far up the man’s cheeks. The lawyer’s picture was also an oil painting, whereas this one had been made with pastel colours and was pale and unclear. But everything else about the picture was similar, as this judge, too, was holding tightly to the arm of his throne and seemed ominously about to rise from it. At first K. was about to say, “He certainly is a judge,” but he held himself back for the time being and went closer to the picture as if he wanted to study it in detail. There was a large figure shown in middle of the throne’s back rest which K. could not understand and asked the painter about it. That’ll need some more work done on it, the painter told him, and taking a pastel crayon from a small table he added a few strokes to the edges of the figure but without making it any clearer as far as K. could make out. “That’s the figure of justice,” said the painter, finally. “Now I see,” said K., “here’s the blindfold and here are the scales. But aren’t those wings on her heels, and isn’t she moving?” “Yes,” said the painter, “I had to paint it like that according to the contract. It’s actually the figure of justice and the goddess of victory all in one.” “That is not a good combination,” said K. with a smile. “Justice needs to remain still, otherwise the scales will move about and it won’t be possible to make a just verdict.” “I’m just doing what the client wanted,” said the painter. “Yes, certainly,” said K., who had not meant to criticise anyone by that comment. “You’ve painted the figure as it actually appears on the throne.” “No,” said the painter, “I’ve never seen that figure or that throne, it’s all just invention, but they told me what it was I had to paint.” “How’s that?” asked K. pretending not fully to understand what the painter said. “That is a judge sitting on the judge’s chair, isn’t it?” “Yes, “ said the painter, “but that judge isn’t very high up and he’s never sat on any throne like that.” “And he has himself painted in such a grand pose? He’s sitting there just like the president of the court.” “Yeah, gentlemen like this are very vain,” said the painter. “But they have permission from higher up to get themselves painted like this. It’s laid down quite strictly just what sort of portrait each of them can get for himself. Only it’s a pity that you can’t make out the details of his costume and pose in this picture, pastel colours aren’t really suitable for showing people like this.” “Yes,” said K., “it does seem odd that it’s in pastel colours.” “That’s what the judge wanted,” said the painter, “it’s meant to be for a woman.” The sight of the picture seemed to make him feel like working, he rolled up his shirtsleeves, picked up a few of the crayons, and K. watched as a reddish shadow built up around the head of the judge under their quivering tips and radiated out the to edges of the picture. This shadow play slowly surrounded the head like a decoration or lofty distinction. But around the figure of Justice, apart from some coloration that was barely noticeable, it remained light, and in this brightness the figure seemed to shine forward so that it now looked like neither the God of Justice nor the God of Victory, it seemed now, rather, to be a perfect depiction of the God of the Hunt. K. found the painter’s work more engrossing than he had wanted; but finally he reproached himself for staying so long without having done anything relevant to his own affair. “What’s the name of this judge?” he asked suddenly. “I’m not allowed to tell you that,” the painter answered. He was bent deeply over the picture and clearly neglecting his guest who, at first, he had received with such care. K. took this to be just a foible of the painter’s, and it irritated him as it made him lose time. “I take it you must be a trustee of the court,” he said. The painter immediately put his crayons down, stood upright, rubbed his hands together and looked at K. with a smile. “Always straight out with the truth,” he said. “You want to learn something about the court, like it says in your letter of recommendation, but then you start talking about my pictures to get me on your side. Still, I won’t hold it against you, you weren’t to know that that was entirely the wrong thing to try with me. Oh, please!” he said sharply, repelling K.’s attempt to make some objection. He then continued, “And besides, you’re quite right in your comment that I’m a trustee of the court.” He made a pause, as if wanting to give K. the time to come to terms with this fact. The girls could once more be heard from behind the door. They were probably pressed around the keyhole, perhaps they could even see into the room through the gaps in the planks. K. forewent the opportunity to excuse himself in some way as he did not wish to distract the painter from what he was saying, or else perhaps he didn’t want him to get too far above himself and in this way make himself to some extent unattainable, so he asked, “Is that a publicly acknowledged position?” “No,” was the painter’s curt reply, as if the question prevented him saying any more. But K. wanted him to continue speaking and said, “Well, positions like that, that aren’t officially acknowledged, can often have more influence than those that are.” “And that’s how it is with me,” said the painter, and nodded with a frown. “I was talking about your case with the manufacturer yesterday, and he asked me if I wouldn’t like to help you, and I answered: ‘He can come and see me if he likes’, and now I’m pleased to see you here so soon. This business seems to be quite important to you, and, of course, I’m not surprised at that. Would you not like to take your coat off now?” K. had intended to stay for only a very short time, but the painter’s invitation was nonetheless very welcome. The air in the room had slowly become quite oppressive for him, he had several times looked in amazement at a small, iron stove in the corner that certainly could not have been lit, the heat of the room was inexplicable. As he took off his winter overcoat and also unbuttoned his frock coat the painter said to him in apology, “I must have warmth. And it is very cosy here, isn’t it. This room’s very good in that respect.” K. made no reply, but it was actually not the heat that made him uncomfortable but, much more, the stuffiness, the air that almost made it more difficult to breathe, the room had probably not been ventilated for a long time. The unpleasantness of this was made all the stronger for K. when the painter invited him to sit on the bed while he himself sat down on the only chair in the room in front of the easel. The painter even seemed to misunderstand why K. remained at the edge of the bed and urged K. to make himself comfortable, and as he hesitated he went over to the bed himself and pressed K. deep down into the bedclothes and pillows. Then he went back to his seat and at last he asked his first objective question, which made K. forget everything else. “You’re innocent, are you?” he asked. “Yes,” said K. He felt a simple joy at answering this question, especially as the answer was given to a private individual and therefore would have no consequences. Up till then no-one had asked him this question so openly. To make the most of his pleasure he added, “I am totally innocent.” “So,” said the painter, and he lowered his head and seemed to be thinking. Suddenly he raised his head again and said, “Well if you’re innocent it’s all very simple.” K. began to scowl, this supposed trustee of the court was talking like an ignorant child. “My being innocent does not make things simple,” said K. Despite everything, he couldn’t help smiling and slowly shook his head. “There are many fine details in which the court gets lost, but in the end it reaches into some place where originally there was nothing and pulls enormous guilt out of it.” “Yeah, yeah, sure,” said the painter, as if K. had been disturbing his train of thought for no reason. “But you are innocent, aren’t you?” “Well of course I am,” said K. “That’s the main thing,” said the painter. There was no counter-argument that could influence him, but although he had made up his mind it was not clear whether he was talking this way because of conviction or indifference. K., then, wanted to find out and said therefore, “I’m sure you’re more familiar with the court than I am, I know hardly more about it than what I’ve heard, and that’s been from many very different people. But they were all agreed on one thing, and that was that when ill thought-out accusations are made they are not ignored, and that once the court has made an accusation it is convinced of the guilt of the defendant and it’s very hard to make it think otherwise.” “Very hard?” the painter asked, throwing one hand up in the air. “It’s impossible to make it think otherwise. If I painted all the judges next to each other here on canvas, and you were trying to defend yourself in front of it, you’d have more success with them than you’d ever have with the real court.” “Yes,” said K. to himself, forgetting that he had only gone there to investigate the painter.
钥匙在锁孔中转动的声音提醒K. 他不想呆得太久。于是他从口袋里掏出制造商的信，递给油漆工说：“我是从这位先生那里了解到你的，他是你的熟人，我是听从他的建议才来到这里的”。画家看了一眼信，然后把它扔到了床上。如果制造商没有明确表示蒂托雷利是他的一个熟人，一个靠施舍度日的穷人，那么很有可能相信蒂托雷利不认识他，或者至少他不记得了。他。画家问道：“你是想买一些画还是想画自己？”进一步加深了这种印象。 K.惊讶地看着画家。这封信到底说了什么？ K. 认为制造商在信中向油漆工解释说，K. 只想了解更多有关他的试验的信息，因此他认为这是理所当然的事情。他来这里实在是太鲁莽了！但现在他必须给画家一个答案，他看了一眼画架，说道：“你现在在画画吗？” “是的，”画家说，然后他拿起挂在画架上的衬衫，把信扔到床上。 “这是一幅肖像。相当不错的作品，虽然还没有完全完成。”这对 K. 来说是一个方便的巧合，这给了他一个很好的机会来谈论法庭，因为图片非常清楚地显示了一名法官。更重要的是，它与律师办公室的照片非常相似，尽管这张照片显示的是一位完全不同的法官，一个身材魁梧的男人，留着浓密的胡须，胡须又黑又浓密，一直延伸到脸颊两侧。 律师的照片也是一幅油画，而这张是柔和的色彩，苍白不清晰。但这张照片的其他一切都是相似的，因为这位法官也紧紧抓住他的王座扶手，似乎不祥地要从王座上站起来。 K.起初想说“他确实是一名法官”，但他暂时忍住了，靠近了照片，似乎想仔细研究它。王座靠背中间有一个巨大的人物，K.看不懂，就向画家询问。画家告诉他，这还需要做更多的工作，他从一张小桌子上拿出一支蜡笔，在人物的边缘上画了几笔，但没有让 K. 看得更清楚。 。 “这就是正义的形象，”画家最后说道。 “现在我明白了，”K. 说，“这是眼罩，这是秤。但那些翅膀不是在她的脚后跟上吗？她不是在移动吗？” “是的，”画家说，“我必须按照合同那样画。它实际上是正义与胜利女神合二为一的形象。” “这不是一个好的组合，”K. 笑着说。 “正义需要保持静止，否则天平就会移动，就不可能做出公正的判决。” “我只是按照客户的要求去做，”画家说。 “是的，当然，”K. 说，他的评论并不是要批评任何人。 “你画的人物与王座上实际出现的人物一样。” “不，”画家说，“我从未见过那个人物或那个王座，这一切都只是发明，但他们告诉我我必须画什么。” “怎么样？” K假装不完全明白画家所说的话问道。 “那是法官坐在法官的椅子上，不是吗？” “是的，”画家说，“但是那个法官的地位不高，他从来没有坐过这样的王位。” “他还把自己画成这么宏伟的姿势？他就像法院院长一样坐在那里。” “是啊，这样的先生们太虚荣了。”画家说道。 “但他们得到了上级的许可，可以把自己画成这样。他们每个人可以为自己拍摄什么样的肖像，这是非常严格的规定的。可惜这张照片里你看不到他的服装和姿势的细节，柔和的色彩不太适合表现这样的人。” “是的，”K. 说，“它是柔和的颜色，这确实看起来很奇怪。” “这就是法官想要的，”画家说，“它是为女人设计的。”看到这张照片，他似乎有了工作的欲望，他卷起衬衫袖子，拿起几支蜡笔，K. 看着他们颤抖的笔尖下，法官的头部周围形成了一道微红的阴影，并向外放射开来。到图片的边缘。这皮影戏慢慢地包围了头部，就像一个装饰品或崇高的荣誉。但正义身影的周围，除了有一些难以察觉的色彩外，依然是淡淡的光芒，在这光辉中，身影仿佛在向前发光，现在看来，既不像正义之神，也不像胜利之神。更确切地说，是对狩猎之神的完美描绘。 K. 发现画家的作品比他想象的更引人入胜。但最后他责怪自己呆了这么久却没有做任何与他自己的事情有关的事情。 “这位法官叫什么名字？”他突然问道。 “我不能告诉你这个，”画家回答道。 他深深地俯身在照片上，显然忽视了他起初如此细心接待的客人。 K.认为这只是画家的一个小毛病，这让他很恼火，因为这让他浪费了时间。 “我认为你一定是法院的受托人，”他说。画家立即放下蜡笔，站直身子，搓着手，微笑地看着K。 “总是直言不讳，”他说。 “你想了解一些关于法庭的事情，就像你的推荐信中说的那样，但随后你开始谈论我的照片，让我站在你一边。不过，我不会反对你，你不会知道对我来说这是完全错误的。哦拜托！”他厉声说道，打消了K提出异议的企图。他接着说道：“而且，你说我是法院的受托人，这句话说得很对。”他停顿了一下，似乎想给K时间来接受这个事实。门后再次传来女孩们的声音。他们可能被压在钥匙孔周围，也许他们甚至可以通过木板的缝隙看到房间里的情况。 K. 放弃了以某种方式为自己辩解的机会，因为他不想让画家从他所说的事情上分心，或者也许他不想让画家太过于超越自己，从而在某种程度上让自己陷入困境。无法实现，所以他问道：“这是公开承认的立场吗？” “不，”画家简短地回答，仿佛这个问题阻止了他再说下去。但 K. 希望他继续讲话，并说：“好吧，像这样的立场，未经官方承认，往往比官方承认的影响力更大。” “我就是这样。”画家皱着眉头说道。 “昨天我在和制造商谈论你的案子，他问我是否愿意帮助你，我回答说：‘如果他愿意的话可以来见我’，现在我很高兴看到你这么快就到了。看来这个生意对你来说相当重要，当然，我对此并不感到惊讶。你现在不想把外套脱掉吗？” K.本来只打算停留很短的时间，但画家的邀请仍然很受欢迎。房间里的空气慢慢地让他变得压抑起来，他好几次惊愕地看着角落里的一个小铁炉，那肯定是不可能点燃的，房间里的热度莫名其妙。当他脱下冬衣，解开礼服扣子时，画家歉意地对他说：“我必须取暖。这里非常舒适，不是吗？这个房间在这方面非常好。” K.没有回答，但其实让他不舒服的并不是炎热，而是闷热，空气几乎让他呼吸困难，房间里估计已经很久没有通风了。当画家邀请他坐在床上，而他自己坐在画架前房间里唯一的椅子上时，这种不愉快感更加强烈。画家甚至似乎误解了K.为何留在床边，催促K.让自己舒服点，犹豫间又自己走到床边，将K.深深地按在床单和枕头里。然后他回到座位上，最后问了他的第一个客观问题，这让K.忘记了一切。 “你是无辜的，是吗？”他问。 “是的，”K说。 回答这个问题让他感到一种简单的快乐，特别是因为答案是给私人的，因此不会产生任何后果。到目前为止，还没有人如此公开地问过他这个问题。为了充分利用他的快乐，他补充道，“我完全是无辜的。” “那么，”画家低着头说道，似乎在思考。突然他又抬起头说道：“好吧，如果你是无辜的，那一切都很简单。” K.开始皱起了眉头，这个所谓的法庭受托人说话就像一个无知的孩子。 “我的天真并没有让事情变得简单。”K说道。尽管如此，他还是忍不住微笑，缓缓摇头。 “法庭在很多细节上都迷失了方向，但最终却触及到了原本什么都没有的地方，并从中拉出了巨大的罪恶感。” “是啊，是啊，当然，”画家说道，仿佛K.无缘无故地打乱了他的思路。 “但你是无辜的，不是吗？” “嗯，我当然是，”K说。“这是最重要的，”画家说。没有任何反驳能够影响他，但他虽然已经下定了决心，却不清楚他这样说是出于坚信，还是出于冷漠。 K. 然后想找出答案，因此说道：“我相信你比我更熟悉法庭，我对法庭的了解并不比我所听到的多，而且这些都是来自许多不同的人。”人们。但他们都同意一件事，那就是，当提出未经深思熟虑的指控时，这些指控不会被忽视，而且一旦法院提出指控，就会确信被告有罪，而且很难做出这样的指控。它不这么认为。” “很难？”画家举起一只手问道。 “不可能让它有其他想法。如果我把所有的法官都画在画布上，而你试图在它面前为自己辩护，那么你在他们面前会比在真正的法庭上更成功。” “是的，”K自言自语地说，忘记了他只是去那里调查画家。

One of the girls behind the door started up again, and asked, “Titorelli, is he going to go soon?” “Quiet!” shouted the painter at the door, “Can’t you see I’m talking with the gentleman?” But this was not enough to satisfy the girl and she asked, “You going to paint his picture?” And when the painter didn’t answer she added, “Please don’t paint him, he’s an ‘orrible bloke.” There followed an incomprehensible, interwoven babble of shouts and replies and calls of agreement. The painter leapt over to the door, opened it very slightly the girls’ clasped hands could be seen stretching through the crack as if they wanted something and said, “If you’re not quiet I’ll throw you all down the stairs. Sit down here on the steps and be quiet.” They probably did not obey him immediately, so that he had to command, “Down on the steps!” Only then it became quiet.
门后的一个女孩又惊醒了，问道：“蒂托雷利，他很快就要走了吗？” “安静的！”画家在门口喊道：“你没看到我正在和那位先生说话吗？”但这还不足以让女孩满意，她问道：“你要画他的画吗？”当画家没有回答时，她补充道，“请不要画他，他是一个‘可怕的家伙’。”接下来是令人费解的、交织在一起的喊叫声、回应声和表示同意的胡言乱语。画家跳到门边，轻轻地打开了门，可以看到女孩们紧握的双手从门缝里伸出来，好像想要什么，说道：“你们再不安静，我就把你们都扔下楼梯。坐在这台阶上，保持安静。”他们大概没有立即听从他的话，他只好命令道：“下来！”这时候才安静下来。

“I’m sorry about that,” said the painter as he returned to K. K. had hardly turned towards the door, he had left it completely up to the painter whether and how he would place him under his protection if he wanted to. Even now, he made hardly any movement as the painter bent over him and, whispering into his ear in order not to be heard outside, said, “These girls belong to the court as well.” “How’s that?” asked K., as he leant his head to one side and looked at the painter. But the painter sat back down on his chair and, half in jest, half in explanation, “Well, everything belongs to the court.” “That is something I had never noticed until now,” said K. curtly, this general comment of the painter’s made his comment about the girls far less disturbing. Nonetheless, K. looked for a while at the door, behind which the girls were now sitting quietly on the steps. Except, that one of them had pushed a drinking straw through a crack between the planks and was moving it slowly up and down. “You still don’t seem to have much general idea of what the court’s about”, said the painter, who had stretched his legs wide apart and was tapping loudly on the floor with the tip of his foot. “But as you’re innocent you won’t need it anyway. I’ll get you out of this by myself.” “How do you intend to do that?” asked K. “You did say yourself not long ago that it’s quite impossible to go to the court with reasons and proofs.” “Only impossible for reasons and proofs you take to the court yourself “ said the painter, raising his forefinger as if K. had failed to notice a fine distinction. “It goes differently if you try to do something behind the public court, that’s to say in the consultation rooms, in the corridors or here, for instance, in my studio.” K. now began to find it far easier to believe what the painter was saying, or rather it was largely in agreement with what he had also been told by others. In fact it was even quite promising. If it really was so easy to influence the judges through personal contacts as the lawyer had said then the painter’s contacts with these vain judges was especially important, and at the very least should not be undervalued. And the painter would fit in very well in the circle of assistants that K. was slowly gathering around himself. He had been noted at the bank for his talent in organising, here, where he was placed entirely on his own resources, would be a good opportunity to test that talent to its limits. The painter observed the effect his explanation had had on K. and then, with a certain unease, said, “Does it not occur to you that the way I’m speaking is almost like a lawyer? It’s the incessant contact with the gentlemen of the court has that influence on me. I gain a lot by it, of course, but I lose a lot, artistically speaking.” “How did you first come into contact with the judges, then?” asked K., he wanted first to gain the painter’s trust before he took him into his service. “That was very easy,” said the painter, “I inherited these contacts. My father was court painter before me. It’s a position that’s always inherited. The can’t use new people for it, the rules governing how the various grades of officials are painted are so many and varied, and, above all, so secret that noone outside of certain families even knows them. In the drawer there, for instance, I’ve got my father’s notes, which I don’t show to anyone. But you’re only able to paint judges if you know what they say. Although, even if I lost them no-one could ever dispute my position because of all the rules I just carry round in my head. All the judges want to be painted like the old, great judges were, and I’m the only one who can do that.” “You are to be envied,” said K., thinking of his position at the bank. “Your position is quite unassailable, then?” “Yes, quite unassailable,” said the painter, and he raised his shoulders in pride. “That’s how I can even afford to help some poor man facing trial now and then.” “And how do you do that?” asked K., as if the painter had not just described him as a poor man. The painter did not let himself be distracted, but said, “In your case, for instance, as you’re totally innocent, this is what I’ll do.” The repeated mention of K.’s innocence was becoming irksome to him. It sometimes seemed to him as if the painter was using these comments to make a favourable outcome to the trial a precondition for his help, which of course would make the help itself unnecessary. But despite these doubts K. forced himself not to interrupt the painter. He did not want to do without the painter’s help, that was what he had decided, and this help did not seem in any way less questionable than that of the lawyer. K. valued the painter’s help far more highly because it was offered in a way that was more harmless and open.
“我很抱歉，”画家回到KK时说道。K几乎没有转向门口，他完全由画家决定是否以及如何将他置于自己的保护之下（如果他愿意的话）。即使现在，他也几乎没有做出任何动作，画家俯身在他耳边，为了不让外面听到，在他耳边低声说道：“这些女孩也是宫廷里的。” “怎么样？” K问道，他把头偏向一侧，看着画家。但画家又坐回椅子上，半开玩笑半解释地说道：“好吧，一切都属于宫廷。” “这是我直到现在才注意到的事情，”K. 简短地说，画家的这一笼统评论使他对女孩的评论远没有那么令人不安。尽管如此，K.还是在门口看了一会儿，女孩们现在安静地坐在门后的台阶上。只不过，其中一个人将一根吸管从木板之间的缝隙中推出来，并缓慢地上下移动。 “看来你对法庭的意义还是不太了解。”画家双腿张开，脚尖在地板上重重地敲击着。 “但既然你是无辜的，你就不需要它。我会亲自带你摆脱困境。” “你打算怎么做？” K问道：“你不久前确实说过，要拿理由和证据去法庭是不太可能的。” “只是不可能，因为你自己把理由和证据带到法庭上”画家说，举起了食指，好像K.没有注意到一个细微的区别。 “如果你尝试在公共法庭后面做某事，也就是说在咨询室、走廊或这里，例如在我的工作室里，情况会有所不同。” K. 现在开始发现更容易相信画家所说的话，或者更确切地说，这在很大程度上与其他人告诉他的一致。事实上，它甚至很有希望。如果真的像律师所说的那样，通过私人接触来影响法官那么容易，那么画家与这些虚荣法官的接触就显得尤其重要，至少不应该被低估。这位画家非常适合 K. 慢慢聚集在自己周围的助手圈子。他在银行因其组织才能而闻名，在这里，他完全依靠自己的资源，将是一个很好的机会来测试他的才能的极限。画家观察了他的解释对K的影响，然后带着某种不安说道：“你难道没有想到我说话的方式几乎像一个律师吗？与宫廷绅士们的不断接触对我产生了影响。当然，我从中得到了很多，但从艺术上来说，我也失去了很多。” “那你是怎么第一次接触到评委的呢？” K.问道，他想在雇用画家之前先获得他的信任。 “这很容易，”画家说，“我继承了这些联系。我父亲在我之前是宫廷画家。这是一个永远继承的地位。不能用新人，各级官吏的画规五花八门，最重要的是，秘密得连某些家族之外的人都不知道。例如，在抽屉里，我有父亲的笔记，但我不会向任何人展示。但只有当你知道法官说什么时，你才能画出他们。 尽管如此，即使我失去了它们，也没有人可以质疑我的立场，因为所有规则都在我的脑海中。所有的评委都想被画成像那些古老而伟大的评委一样，而我是唯一一个能做到这一点的人。” “你是值得羡慕的，”K. 想到他在银行的职位时说道。 “那么，你的地位就已经无可撼动了吧？” “是的，无懈可击。”画家自豪地耸起肩膀说道。 “这就是我什至有能力帮助一些时不时面临审判的穷人的方式。” “那你是怎么做到的呢？” K问道，好像画家不仅仅把他描述为一个穷人。画家也不让自己分心，而是说道：“比如你，你是完全无辜的，我就这么做。”不断提及 K. 的清白让他感到厌烦。有时在他看来，画家似乎利用这些评论，将审判的有利结果作为他提供帮助的先决条件，这当然会使帮助本身变得不必要。但尽管有这些疑虑，K. 强迫自己不要打断画家。他不想没有画家的帮助，这就是他的决定，而这种帮助似乎并不比律师的帮助更值得怀疑。 K. 更加重视画家的帮助，因为它是以一种更加无害和开放的方式提供的。

The painter had pulled his seat closer to the bed and continued in a subdued voice: “I forgot to ask you; what sort of acquittal is it you want? There are three possibilities; absolute acquittal, apparent acquittal and deferment. Absolute acquittal is the best, of course, only there’s nothing I could do to get that sort of outcome. I don’t think there’s anyone at all who could do anything to get an absolute acquittal. Probably the only thing that could do that is if the accused is innocent. As you are innocent it could actually be possible and you could depend on your innocence alone. In that case you won’t need me or any other kind of help.”
画家把座位拉近床边，压低声音继续说道：“我忘记问你了，你想要什么样的无罪释放？有三种可能性；绝对无罪、表面无罪和缓刑。当然，绝对无罪是最好的，只是我无能为力以获得这样的结果。我认为没有人可以做任何事情来获得绝对无罪释放。也许唯一能做到的就是被告是无辜的。由于你是无辜的，这实际上是可能的，并且你可以仅依靠你的清白。那样的话，你就不需要我或任何其他类型的帮助。”

At first, K. was astonished at this orderly explanation, but then, just as quietly as the painter, he said, “I think you’re contradicting yourself.” “How’s that?” asked the painter patiently, leaning back with a smile. This smile made K. feel as if he were examining not the words of the painter but seeking out inconsistencies in the procedures of the court itself. Nonetheless, he continued unabashed and said, “You remarked earlier that the court cannot be approached with reasoned proofs, you later restricted this to the open court, and now you go so far as to say that an innocent man needs no assistance in court. That entails a contradiction. Moreover, you said earlier that the judges can be influenced personally but now you insist that an absolute acquittal, as you call it, can never be attained through personal influence. That entails a second contradiction.” “It’s quite easy to clear up these contradictions,” said the painter. “We’re talking about two different things here, there’s what it says in the law and there’s what I know from my own experience, you shouldn’t get the two confused. I’ve never seen it in writing, but the law does, of course, say on the one hand that the innocent will be set free, but on the other hand it doesn’t say that the judges can be influenced. But in my experience it’s the other way round. I don’t know of any absolute acquittals but I do know of many times when a judge has been influenced. It’s possible, of course, that there was no innocence in any of the cases I know about. But is that likely? Not a single innocent defendant in so many cases? When I was a boy I used to listen closely to my father when he told us about court cases at home, and the judges that came to his studio talked about the court, in our circles nobody talks about anything else; I hardly ever got the chance to go to court myself but always made use of it when I could, I’ve listened to countless trials at important stages in their development, I’ve followed them closely as far as they could be followed, and I have to say that I’ve never seen a single acquittal.” “So. Not a single acquittal,” said K., as if talking to himself and his hopes. “That confirms the impression I already have of the court. So there’s no point in it from this side either. They could replace the whole court with a single hangman.” “You shouldn’t generalise,” said the painter, dissatisfied, “I’ve only been talking about my own experience.” “Well that’s enough,” said K., “or have you heard of any acquittals that happened earlier?” “They say there have been some acquittals earlier,” the painter answered, “but it’s very hard to be sure about it. The courts don’t make their final conclusions public, not even the judges are allowed to know about them, so that all we know about these earlier cases are just legends. But most of them did involve absolute acquittals, you can believe that, but they can’t be proved. On the other hand, you shouldn’t forget all about them either, I’m sure there is some truth to them, and they are very beautiful, I’ve painted a few pictures myself depicting these legends.” “My assessment will not be altered by mere legends,” said K. “I don’t suppose it’s possible to cite these legends in court, is it?” The painter laughed. “No, you can’t cite them in court,” he said. “Then there’s no point in talking about them,” said K., he wanted, for the time being, to accept anything the painter told him, even if he thought it unlikely or contradicted what he had been told by others. He did not now have the time to examine the truth of everything the painter said or even to disprove it, he would have achieved as much as he could if the painter would help him in any way even if his help would not be decisive. As a result, he said, “So let’s pay no more attention to absolute acquittal, but you mentioned two other possibilities.” “Apparent acquittal and deferment. They’re the only possibilities,” said the painter. “But before we talk about them, would you not like to take your coat off? You must be hot.” “Yes,” said K., who until then had paid attention to nothing but the painter’s explanations, but now that he had had the heat pointed out to him his brow began to sweat heavily. “It’s almost unbearable.” The painter nodded as if he understood K.’s discomfort very well. “Could we not open the window?” asked K. “No,” said the painter. “It’s only a fixed pane of glass, it can’t be opened.” K. now realised that all this time he had been hoping the painter would suddenly go over to the window and pull it open. He had prepared himself even for the fog that he would breathe in through his open mouth. The thought that here he was entirely cut off from the air made him feel dizzy. He tapped lightly on the bedspread beside him and, with a weak voice, said, “That is very inconvenient and unhealthy.” “Oh no,” said the painter in defence of his window, “as it can’t be opened this room retains the heat better than if the window were double glazed, even though it’s only a single pane. There’s not much need to air the room as there’s so much ventilation through the gaps in the wood, but when I do want to I can open one of my doors, or even both of them.” K. was slightly consoled by this explanation and looked around to see where the second door was. The painter saw him do so and said, “It’s behind you, I had to hide it behind the bed.” Only then was K. able to see the little door in the wall. “It’s really much too small for a studio here,” said the painter, as if he wanted to anticipate an objection K. would make. “I had to arrange things as well as I could. That’s obviously a very bad place for the bed, in front of the door. For instance when the judge I’m painting at present comes he always comes through the door by the bed, and I’ve even given him a key to this door so that he can wait for me here in the studio when I’m not home. Although nowadays he usually comes early in the morning when I’m still asleep. And of course, it always wakes me up when I hear the door opened beside the bed, however fast asleep I am. If you could hear the way I curse him as he climbs over my bed in the morning you’d lose all respect for judges. I suppose I could take the key away from him but that’d only make things worse. It only takes a tiny effort to break any of the doors here off their hinges.” All the time the painter was speaking, K. was considering whether he should take off his coat, but he finally realised that, if he didn’t do so, he would be quite unable to stay here any longer, so he took off his frock coat and lay it on his knee so that he could put it back on again as soon as the conversation was over. He had hardly done this when one of the girls called out, “Now he’s taken his coat off!” and they could all be heard pressing around the gaps in the planks to see the spectacle for themselves. “The girls think I’m going to paint your portrait,” said the painter, “and that’s why you’re taking your coat off.” “I see,” said K., only slightly amused by this, as he felt little better than he had before even though he now sat in his shirtsleeves. With some irritation he asked, “What did you say the two other possibilities were?” He had already forgotten the terms used. “Apparent acquittal and deferment,” said the painter. “It’s up to you which one you choose. You can get either of them if I help you, but it’ll take some effort of course, the difference between them is that apparent acquittal needs concentrated effort for a while and that deferment takes much less effort but it has to be sustained. Now then, apparent acquittal. If that’s what you want I’ll write down an assertion of your innocence on a piece of paper. The text for an assertion of this sort was passed down to me from my father and it’s quite unassailable. I take this assertion round to the judges I know. So I’ll start off with the one I’m currently painting, and put the assertion to him when he comes for his sitting this evening. I’ll lay the assertion in front of him, explain that you’re innocent and give him my personal guarantee of it. And that’s not just a superficial guarantee, it’s a real one and it’s binding.” The painter’s eyes seemed to show some reproach of K. for wanting to impose that sort of responsibility on him. “That would be very kind of you”, said K. “And would the judge then believe you and nonetheless not pass an absolute acquittal?” “It’s like I just said,” answered the painter. “And anyway, it’s not entirely sure that all the judges would believe me, many of them, for instance, might want me to bring you to see them personally. So then you’d have to come along too. But at least then, if that happens, the matter is half way won, especially as I’d teach you in advance exactly how you’d need to act with the judge concerned, of course. What also happens, though, is that there are some judges who’ll turn me down in advance, and that’s worse. I’ll certainly make several attempts, but still, we’ll have to forget about them, but at least we can afford to do that as no one judge can pass the decisive verdict. Then when I’ve got enough judges’ signatures on this document I take it to the judge who’s concerned with your case. I might even have his signature already, in which case things develop a bit quicker than they would do otherwise. But there aren’t usually many hold ups from then on, and that’s the time that the defendant can feel most confident. It’s odd, but true, that people feel more confidence in this time than they do after they’ve been acquitted. There’s no particular exertion needed now. When he has the document asserting the defendant’s innocence, guaranteed by a number of other judges, the judge can acquit you without any worries, and although there are still several formalities to be gone through there’s no doubt that that’s what he’ll do as a favour to me and several other acquaintances. You, however, walk out the court and you’re free.” “So, then I’ll be free,” said K., hesitantly. “That’s right,” said the painter, “but only apparently free or, to put it a better way, temporarily free, as the most junior judges, the ones I know, they don’t have the right to give the final acquittal. Only the highest judge can do that, in the court that’s quite of reach for you, for me and for all of us. We don’t know how things look there and, incidentally, we don’t want to know. The right to acquit people is a major privilege and our judges don’t have it, but they do have the right to free people from the indictment. That’s to say, if they’re freed in this way then for the time being the charge is withdrawn but it’s still hanging over their heads and it only takes an order from higher up to bring it back into force. And as I’m in such good contact with the court I can also tell you how the difference between absolute and apparent acquittal is described, just in a superficial way, in the directives to the court offices. If there’s an absolute acquittal all proceedings should stop, everything disappears from the process, not just the indictment but the trial and even the acquittal disappears, everything just disappears. With an apparent acquittal it’s different. When that happens, nothing has changed except that the case for your innocence, for your acquittal and the grounds for the acquittal have been made stronger. Apart from that, proceedings go on as before, the court offices continue their business and the case gets passed to higher courts, gets passed back down to the lower courts and so on, backwards and forwards, sometimes faster, sometimes slower, to and fro. It’s impossible to know exactly what’s happening while this is going on. Seen from outside it can sometimes seem that everything has been long since forgotten, the documents have been lost and the acquittal is complete. No-one familiar with the court would believe it. No documents ever get lost, the court forgets nothing. One day no-one expects it some judge or other picks up the documents and looks more closely at them, he notices that this particular case is still active, and orders the defendant’s immediate arrest. I’ve been talking here as if there’s a long delay between apparent acquittal and re-arrest, that is quite possible and I do know of cases like that, but it’s just as likely that the defendant goes home after he’s been acquitted and finds somebody there waiting to re-arrest him. Then, of course, his life as a free man is at an end.” “And does the trial start over again?” asked K., finding it hard to believe. “The trial will always start over again,” said the painter, “but there is, once again as before, the possibility of getting an apparent acquittal. Once again, the accused has to muster all his strength and mustn’t give up.” The painter said that last phrase possibly as a result of the impression that K., whose shoulders had dropped somewhat, gave on him. “But to get a second acquittal,” asked K., as if in anticipation of further revelations by the painter, “is that not harder to get than the first time?” “As far as that’s concerned,” answered the painter, “there’s nothing you can say for certain. You mean, do you, that the second arrest would have an adverse influence on the judge and the verdict he passes on the defendant? That’s not how it happens. When the acquittal is passed the judges are already aware that re-arrest is likely. So when it happens it has hardly any effect. But there are countless other reasons why the judges’ mood and their legal acumen in the case can be altered, and efforts to obtain the second acquittal must therefore be suited to the new conditions, and generally just as vigorous as the first.” “But this second acquittal will once again not be final,” said K., shaking his head. “Of course not,” said the painter, “the second acquittal is followed by the third arrest, the third acquittal by the fourth arrest and so on. That’s what is meant by the term apparent acquittal.” K. was silent. “You clearly don’t think an apparent acquittal offers much advantage,” said the painter, “perhaps deferment would suit you better. Would you like me to explain what deferment is about?” K. nodded. The painter had leant back and spread himself out in his chair, his nightshirt was wide open, he had pushed his hand inside and was stroking his breast and his sides. “Deferment,” said the painter, looking vaguely in front of himself for a while as if trying to find a perfectly appropriate explanation, “deferment consists of keeping proceedings permanently in their earliest stages. To do that, the accused and those helping him need to keep in continuous personal contact with the court, especially those helping him. I repeat, this doesn’t require so much effort as getting an apparent acquittal, but it probably requires a lot more attention. You must never let the trial out of your sight, you have to go and see the appropriate judge at regular intervals as well as when something in particular comes up and, whatever you do, you have to try and remain friendly with him; if you don’t know the judge personally you have to influence him through the judges you do know, and you have to do it without giving up on the direct discussions. As long as you don’t fail to do any of these things you can be reasonably sure the trial won’t get past its first stages. The trial doesn’t stop, but the defendant is almost as certain of avoiding conviction as if he’d been acquitted. Compared with an apparent acquittal, deferment has the advantage that the defendant’s future is less uncertain, he’s safe from the shock of being suddenly re-arrested and doesn’t need to fear the exertions and stress involved in getting an apparent acquittal just when everything else in his life would make it most difficult. Deferment does have certain disadvantages of its own though, too, and they shouldn’t be under-estimated. I don’t mean by this that the defendant is never free, he’s never free in the proper sense of the word with an apparent acquittal either. There’s another disadvantage. Proceedings can’t be prevented from moving forward unless there are some at least ostensible reasons given. So something needs to seem to be happening when looked at from the outside. This means that from time to time various injunctions have to be obeyed, the accused has to be questioned, investigations have to take place and so on. The trial’s been artificially constrained inside a tiny circle, and it has to be continuously spun round within it. And that, of course, brings with it certain unpleasantnesses for the accused, although you shouldn’t imagine they’re all that bad. All of this is just for show, the interrogations, for instance, they’re only very short, if you ever don’t have the time or don’t feel like going to them you can offer an excuse, with some judges you can even arrange the injunctions together a long time in advance, in essence all it means is that, as the accused, you have to report to the judge from time to time.” Even while the painter was speaking those last words K. had laid his coat over his arm and had stood up. Immediately, from outside the door, there was a cry of ‘He’s standing up now!’. “Are you leaving already?” asked the painter, who had also stood up. “It must be the air that’s driving you out. I’m very sorry about that. There’s still a lot I need to tell you. I had to put everything very briefly but I hope at least it was all clear.” “Oh yes,” said K., whose head was aching from the effort of listening. Despite this affirmation the painter summed it all up once more, as if he wanted to give K. something to console him on his way home. “Both have in common that they prevent the defendant being convicted,” he said. “But they also prevent his being properly acquitted,” said K. quietly, as if ashamed to acknowledge it. “You’ve got it, in essence,” said the painter quickly. K. placed his hand on his winter overcoat but could not bring himself to put it on. Most of all he would have liked to pack everything together and run out to the fresh air. Not even the girls could induce him to put his coat on, even though they were already loudly telling each other that he was doing so. The painter still had to interpret K.’s mood in some way, so he said, “I expect you’ve deliberately avoided deciding between my suggestions yet. That’s good. I would even have advised against making a decision straight away. There’s no more than a hair’s breadth of difference between the advantages and disadvantages. Everything has to be carefully weighed up. But the most important thing is you shouldn’t lose too much time.” “I’ll come back here again soon,” said K., who had suddenly decided to put his frock coat on, threw his overcoat over his shoulder and hurried over to the door behind which the girls now began to scream. K. thought he could even see the screaming girls through the door. “Well, you’ll have to keep your word,” said the painter, who had not followed him, “otherwise I’ll to the bank to ask about it myself.” “Will you open this door for me,” said K. pulling at the handle which, as he noticed from the resistance, was being held tightly by the girls on the other side. “Do you want to be bothered by the girls?” asked the painter. “It’s better if you use the other way out,” he said, pointing to the door behind the bed. K. agreed to this and jumped back to the bed. But instead of opening that door the painter crawled under the bed and from underneath it asked K., “Just a moment more, would you not like to see a picture I could sell to you?” K. did not want to be impolite, the painter really had taken his side and promised to help him more in the future, and because of K.’s forgetfulness there had been no mention of any payment for the painter’s help, so K. could not turn him down now and allowed him to show him the picture, even though he was quivering with impatience to get out of the studio. From under the bed, the painter withdrew a pile of unframed paintings. They were so covered in dust that when the painter tried to blow it off the one on top the dust swirled around in front of K.’s eyes, robbing him of breath for some time. “Moorland landscape,” said the painter passing the picture to K. It showed two sickly trees, well separated from each other in dark grass. In the background there was a multi-coloured sunset. “That’s nice,” said K. “I’ll buy it.” K. expressed himself in this curt way without any thought, so he was glad when the painter did not take this amiss and picked up a second painting from the floor. “This is a counterpart to the first picture,” said the painter. Perhaps it had been intended as a counterpart, but there was not the slightest difference to be seen between it and the first picture, there were the trees, there the grass and there the sunset. But this was of little importance to K. “They are beautiful landscapes,” he said, “I’ll buy them both and hang them in my office.” “You seem to like this subject,” said the painter, picking up a third painting, “good job I’ve still got another, similar picture here.” The picture though, was not similar, rather it was exactly the same moorland landscape. The painter was fully exploiting this opportunity to sell off his old pictures. “I’ll take this one too,” said K. “How much do the three paintings cost?” “We can talk about that next time,” said the painter. “You’re in a hurry now, and we’ll still be in contact. And besides, I’m glad you like the paintings, I’ll give you all the paintings I’ve got down here. They’re all moorland landscapes, I’ve painted a lot of moorland landscapes. A lot of people don’t like that sort of picture because they’re too gloomy, but there are others, and you’re one of them, who love gloomy themes.” But K. was not in the mood to hear about the professional experiences of this painter cum beggar. “Wrap them all up!” he called out, interrupting the painter as he was speaking, “my servant will come to fetch them in the morning.” “There’s no need for that,” said the painter. “I expect I can find a porter for you who can go with you now.” And, at last, he leant over the bed and unlocked the door. “Just step on the bed, don’t worry about that,” said the painter, “that’s what everyone does who comes in here.” Even without this invitation, K. had shown no compunction in already placing his foot in the middle of the bed covers, then he looked out through the open door and drew his foot back again. “What is that?” he asked the painter. “What are you so surprised at?” he asked, surprised in his turn. “Those are court offices. Didn’t you know there are court offices here? There are court offices in almost every attic, why should this building be any different? Even my studio is actually one of the court offices but the court put it at my disposal.” It was not so much finding court offices even here that shocked K., he was mainly shocked at himself, at his own na•vety in court matters. It seemed to him that one of the most basic rules governing how a defendant should behave was always to be prepared, never allow surprises, never to look, unsuspecting, to the right when the judge stood beside him to his left and this was the very basic rule that he was continually violating. A long corridor extended in from of him, air blew in from it which, compared with the air in the studio, was refreshing. There were benches set along each side of the corridor just as in the waiting area for the office he went to himself. There seemed to be precise rules governing how offices should be equipped. There did not seem to be many people visiting the offices that day. There was a man there, half sitting, half laying, his face was buried in his arm on the bench and he seemed to be sleeping; another man was standing in the half-dark at the end of the corridor. K. now climbed over the bed, the painter followed him with the pictures. They soon came across a servant of the court K. was now able to recognise all the servants of the court from the gold buttons they wore on their civilian clothes below the normal buttons and the painter instructed him to go with K. carrying the pictures. K. staggered more than he walked, his handkerchief pressed over his mouth. They had nearly reached the exit when the girls stormed in on them, so K. had not been able to avoid them. They had clearly seen that the second door of the studio had been opened and had gone around to impose themselves on him from this side. “I can’t come with you any further!” called out the painter with a laugh as the girls pressed in. “Goodbye, and don’t hesitate too long!” K. did not even look round at him. Once on the street he took the first cab he came across. He now had to get rid of the servant, whose gold button continually caught his eye even if it caught no-one else’s. As a servant, the servant of the court was going to sit on the coach-box. But K. chased him down from there. It was already well into the afternoon when K. arrived in front of the bank. He would have liked to leave the pictures in the cab but feared there might be some occasion when he would have to let the painter see he still had them. So he had the pictures taken to his office and locked them in the lowest drawer of his desk so that he could at least keep them safe from the deputy director’s view for the next few days.
起初，K. 对这种井然有序的解释感到惊讶，但随后，他像画家一样平静地说：“我认为你自相矛盾。” “怎么样？”画家向后靠了靠，微笑着耐心地问道。这个微笑让K感觉自己似乎不是在审视画家的文字，而是在寻找法庭本身程序中的不一致之处。尽管如此，他仍毫不掩饰地说道：“你刚才说不能向法庭提供合理的证据，后来你又把这限制在公开法庭上，现在你竟然说一个无辜的人在法庭上不需要任何帮助。这就产生了矛盾。此外，您之前说过，法官可以受到个人影响，但现在您坚持认为，绝对无罪释放，正如您所说的那样，永远不可能通过个人影响来实现。这就带来了第二个矛盾。” “要消除这些矛盾是很容易的。”画家说。 “我们在这里谈论两件不同的事情，一个是法律中规定的内容，一个是我从自己的经验中了解到的内容，你不应该将两者混淆。我从未见过书面的规定，但法律当然一方面规定无辜者将被释放，但另一方面却没有规定法官可以受到影响。但根据我的经验，情况恰恰相反。我不知道有任何绝对无罪释放的案例，但我确实知道很多时候法官受到了影响。当然，我所知道的所有案件中都可能没有无辜者。但这有可能吗？这么多案件中没有一个无辜的被告？ 当我还是个孩子的时候，我常常在家里仔细听父亲给我们讲述法庭案件，来到他工作室的法官们谈论法庭，在我们的圈子里没有人谈论其他事情；我几乎没有机会亲自上法庭，但总是尽可能地利用它，我在他们发展的重要阶段听取了无数的审判，我尽可能地密切关注他们，并且我不得不说，我从未见过任何人被无罪释放。” “所以。没有一次无罪释放。”K. 说道，仿佛在自言自语，自言自语。 “这证实了我对法庭已有的印象。所以从这方面来说也没有任何意义。他们可以用一个刽子手取代整个法庭。” “你别一概而论，”画家不满地说，“我只是说我自己的经历。” “好了，够了，”K 说，“或者你听说过之前发生过无罪释放的情况吗？” “他们说早些时候已经有一些人被无罪释放了，”画家回答道，“但很难确定这一点。法院不公开最终的结论，连法官也不被允许知道，所以我们所知道的这些早期案件都只是传说。但其中大多数确实涉及绝对无罪，你可以相信这一点，但无法证明。另一方面，你也不应该忘记它们，我确信它们有一定的真实性，而且它们非常美丽，我自己画了几幅画来描绘这些传说。” “我的评估不会仅仅因为传说而改变，”K 说，“我认为不可能在法庭上引用这些传说，不是吗？”画家笑了。 “不，你不能在法庭上引用它们，”他说。 “那么谈论它们就没有意义了，”K 说。，他想暂时接受画家告诉他的任何事情，即使他认为这不太可能或与其他人告诉他的内容相矛盾。他现在没有时间去检验画家所说的一切的真实性，甚至去反驳它，如果画家能以任何方式帮助他，即使他的帮助不是决定性的，他也已经尽力了。结果，他说：“所以我们不要再关注绝对无罪，但你提到了另外两种可能性。” “明显无罪释放和缓刑。它们是唯一的可能性，”画家说。 “但是在我们谈论它们之前，你不想把外套脱掉吗？你一定很热。” “是的，”K说，在此之前他只注意画家的解释，但现在当他看到炎热的天气时，他的额头开始冒汗。 “这几乎难以忍受。”画家点点头，似乎很理解K的不舒服。 “我们可以不开窗户吗？” K问道。“不，”画家说。 “这只是一块固定的玻璃，打不开。” K现在意识到，一直以来他一直希望画家能突然走到窗户前，把它拉开。他甚至已经做好了迎接他张开嘴呼吸的雾气的准备。一想到自己在这里与空气完全隔绝，他就感到头晕目眩。他轻轻敲了敲身边的床罩，声音微弱：“这样很不方便，也不健康。” “哦，不，”画家为他的窗户辩护说，“因为它无法打开，所以这个房间比双层玻璃窗能更好地保留热量，即使它只是一块玻璃。 房间里没有太多通风的必要，因为木头的缝隙有很多通风，但当我确实想要时，我可以打开其中一扇门，甚至两扇门。” K. 听了这个解释，稍微松了口气，环顾四周，想看看第二扇门在哪里。画家见他这样做，就说：“它在你后面，我得把它藏在床后面。”这时K.才看到墙上的小门。 “这里对于工作室来说真的太小了，”画家说道，仿佛他想预料到 K. 会提出反对意见。 “我必须尽我所能地安排事情。门前显然是一个非常不适合放床的地方。比如我现在画的法官来的时候，他总是从床边的门进来，我什至给了他一把这扇门的钥匙，这样当我不在的时候，他就可以在画室等我。家。虽然现在他通常一大早在我还在睡觉的时候就来了。当然，无论我睡得有多熟，当我听到床边的门打开时，它总是会把我吵醒。如果你早上听到他爬过我的床时我咒骂他的声音，你就会失去对法官的所有尊重。我想我可以把钥匙从他身上拿走，但这只会让事情变得更糟。只需要一点点力气，就能把这里的任何一扇门从铰链上折断。”画家说话的时候，K.一直在考虑要不要把外套脱掉，但他终于意识到，如果不脱掉，他就很难再待在这里了，于是他脱掉了外套。礼服外套放在膝盖上，以便谈话结束后他可以重新穿上它。他刚做完这一切，其中一个女孩就喊道：“现在他脱掉了外套！”并且可以听到他们都挤在木板的缝隙处，想亲眼目睹这一奇观。 “女孩们以为我要画你的肖像，”画家说，“所以你才脱掉外套。” “我明白了，”K说，对此只是感到有点好笑，因为尽管他现在穿着衬衫坐着，但他感觉比以前好不了多少。他有些恼怒地问道：“你说另外两种可能性是什么？”他已经忘记了所使用的术语。 “显然是无罪释放和缓刑，”画家说。 “这取决于你选择哪一个。如果我帮你的话，你可以得到其中一个，但当然需要一些努力，它们之间的区别是，表面无罪需要集中精力一段时间，而延期则需要更少的努力，但必须持续。现在看来，显然是无罪释放。如果这就是你想要的，我会在一张纸上写下你无罪的声明。这种断言的文本是我父亲传给我的，是无懈可击的。我将这一主张转告给我认识的法官。所以我将从我目前正在画的那幅画开始，并在他今晚来坐时向他提出这一主张。我会把这个断言摆在他面前，向他解释你是无辜的，并向他提供我个人的保证。这不仅仅是一种表面的保证，而是真正的保证，并且具有约束力。”画家的眼里似乎流露出某种责备，K.想把这种责任强加给他。 “那真是太好了，”K 说，“那么法官会相信你，但仍然不会宣布绝对无罪吗？” “就像我刚才说的，”画家回答道。 “无论如何，并不完全确定所有评委都会相信我，例如，他们中的许多人可能希望我带你亲自去见他们。那么你也必须一起来。但至少，如果发生这种情况，事情就成功了一半，尤其是我会提前教你如何与相关法官合作，当然。不过，还会发生的情况是，有些法官会提前拒绝我，这更糟糕。我当然会做出几次尝试，但我们仍然必须忘记它们，但至少我们有能力这样做，因为没有一个法官可以做出决定性的裁决。然后，当我在这份文件上得到足够多的法官签名后，我会将其交给与您的案件有关的法官。我什至可能已经有了他的签名，在这种情况下，事情会比其他情况发展得更快一些。但此后通常不会有太多的阻碍，这是被告最有信心的时候。奇怪的是，但事实是，人们在这段时间比被无罪释放后更有信心。现在不需要特别努力。当他有证明被告无罪的文件并得到其他几位法官的保证时，法官就可以毫无顾虑地宣告你无罪，尽管仍然需要办理一些手续，但毫无疑问，这就是他作为一名法官会做的事情。对我和其他几个熟人有利。然而，你走出球场，你就自由了。” “那么，我就自由了，”K. 犹豫地说。 “是的，”画家说，“但只是表面上的自由，或者更好地说，暂时的自由，作为最低级的法官，我认识的那些人，他们没有权利做出最终的无罪释放。 只有最高法官才能在法庭上做到这一点，这对你、我和我们所有人来说都是力所能及的。我们不知道那里的情况如何，顺便说一句，我们也不想知道。无罪释放的权利是一项重大特权，我们的法官没有这种权利，但他们确实有权将人们从起诉书中释放出来。也就是说，如果这样释放了，那么罪名就暂时撤销了，但罪名还悬在他们头上，只要上级一声令下，罪名就可以恢复。由于我与法院有如此良好的联系，我还可以告诉您在法院办公室的指示中如何以肤浅的方式描述绝对无罪和表面无罪之间的区别。如果绝对无罪，所有诉讼程序都应该停止，一切都从程序中消失，不仅是起诉书，还有审判，甚至无罪释放都消失了，一切都消失了。如果明显无罪释放，情况就不同了。当这种情况发生时，除了证明你无罪、无罪释放以及无罪释放的理由更加充分之外，一切都没有改变。除此之外，诉讼程序照常进行，法院办公室继续工作，案件向上级法院传递，再向下级法院传递，如此往复，有时快，有时慢，来来回回。 。在这种情况发生时，不可能确切地知道发生了什么。从外部看来，有时似乎一切都早已被遗忘，文件已经丢失，无罪释放已经完成。熟悉法庭的人都不会相信这一点。任何文件都不会丢失，法庭也不会忘记任何事情。 有一天，没有人想到某个法官或其他人会拿起这些文件并仔细查看它们，他注意到这一特定案件仍在进行中，并下令立即逮捕被告。我在这里一直在谈论，好像在表面上无罪释放和重新逮捕之间存在很长的延迟，这是很有可能的，我确实知道类似的案件，但被告在被无罪释放后回家并找到某人的可能性也一样在那里等着重新逮捕他。那么，当然，他作为自由人的生命就结束了。” “审判会重新开始吗？” K. 难以置信地问道。 “审判总是会重新开始，”画家说，“但是，和以前一样，有可能获得明显的无罪释放。被告必须再次鼓起全力，决不能放弃。”画家说出这最后一句话，可能是因为肩膀有些下垂的K.给他留下了这样的印象。 “但是要获得第二次无罪释放，”K.问道，仿佛期待着画家进一步的揭露，“这不是比第一次更难吗？” “就这一点而言，”画家回答道，“没有什么可以肯定的。你的意思是，第二次逮捕会对法官以及他对被告的判决产生不利影响吗？事实并非如此。当无罪释放通过时，法官已经意识到可能会再次被捕。所以当它发生时，几乎没有任何影响。但是，还有无数其他原因导致法官的情绪和他们在案件中的法律敏锐度可能会发生变化，因此，争取第二次无罪释放的努力必须适应新的条件，并且通常与第一次无罪释放一样积极。” “但是第二次无罪释放将再次不是最终的，”K. 摇着头说道。 “当然不是，”画家说，“第二次无罪释放之后是第三次逮捕，第三次无罪释放之后是第四次逮捕，依此类推。这就是“明显无罪释放”一词的含义。” K.沉默了。 “你显然不认为明显的无罪释放有多大好处，”画家说，“也许延期更适合你。需要我解释一下什么是延期吗？” K.点点头。画家向后靠着，躺在椅子上，他的睡衣敞开着，他把手伸进去，抚摸着他的胸部和两侧。 “延期，”画家茫然地在自己面前看了一会儿，似乎在寻找一个完全恰当的解释，“延期意味着将进程永久地保持在最初的阶段。为此，被告和帮助他的人需要与法庭保持持续的个人联系，特别是那些帮助他的人。我再说一遍，这并不需要像获得表面无罪释放那样多的努力，但可能需要更多的关注。你决不能让审判离开你的视线，你必须定期去看合适的法官，当有特别的事情发生时，无论你做什么，你都必须尽力与他保持友好；如果你个人不认识法官，你就必须通过你认识的法官来影响他，而且你必须在不放弃直接讨论的情况下做到这一点。只要您不做任何这些事情，您就可以合理地确定试验不会通过第一阶段。审判并未停止，但被告几乎肯定会避免被定罪，就像他被无罪释放一样。 与表面无罪释放相比，缓刑的优点是被告的未来不确定性较小，他不会受到突然再次被捕的冲击，并且不需要担心在其他一切都已完成的情况下获得表面无罪释放所涉及的努力和压力。在他的一生中，这将是最困难的。不过，延期也有其自身的某些缺点，并且不应低估它们。我的意思并不是说被告永远没有自由，他也从来没有获得过明显无罪释放的真正意义上的自由。还有另一个缺点。除非给出一些至少表面上的理由，否则无法阻止诉讼程序继续进行。因此，从外部看，某些事情似乎正在发生。这意味着必须不时遵守各种禁令，必须讯问被告，必须进行调查等等。试验被人为地限制在一个小圆圈内，并且必须在其中不断旋转。当然，这会给被告带来一定的不愉快，尽管你不应该想象他们有那么糟糕。所有这些都是为了表演，比如审讯，它们只是很短，如果你没有时间或者不想去，你可以提供一个借口，有一些法官你可以即使提前很长时间把禁令放在一起，本质上也意味着，作为被告，你必须时不时地向法官汇报。”就在画家说完最后一句话的时候，K.已经把外套披在手臂上，站了起来。随即，门外传来一声“他站起来了！”的叫喊声。 “你已经走了吗？“画家问道，他也站了起来。 “一定是空气把你赶出去了。对此我感到非常抱歉。我还有很多事要告诉你。我必须把一切都说得非常简短，但我希望至少一切都清楚了。” “哦，是的，”K. 说，他的头因为费力倾听而感到疼痛。尽管得到了这样的肯定，画家还是再次总结了这一切，仿佛他想给 K. 一些东西来安慰他回家的路。 “两者的共同点是防止被告被定罪，”他说。 “但他们也阻止他被正式无罪释放，”K. 平静地说，仿佛羞于承认这一点。 “本质上，你已经明白了，”画家很快说道。 K.把手放在冬天的大衣上，但无法穿上。最重要的是，他想把所有东西都收拾好，跑出去呼吸新鲜空气。就连女孩们也无法诱导他穿上外套，尽管她们已经大声告诉对方他正在这样做。画家还得以某种方式解读K.的心情，所以他说：“我想你还刻意回避在我的建议中做出选择。那挺好的。我什至会建议不要立即做出决定。优点和缺点不过是毫厘之差。一切都必须仔细权衡。但最重要的是你不应该浪费太多时间。” “我很快就会再回到这里，”K.突然决定穿上礼服大衣，把大衣披在肩上，急忙跑到门边，门后女孩们开始尖叫。 K.觉得他甚至可以透过门看到尖叫的女孩们。 “好吧，你得遵守诺言，”画家没有跟着他说，“不然我亲自去银行问问。” “你能帮我打开这扇门吗？”K 拉着门把手，他从阻力中注意到，门把手被​​另一边的女孩紧紧地握住。 “你想被女孩子打扰吗？”画家问道。 “最好从另一条路出去，”他指着床后面的门说。 K. 同意了，然后跳回床上。但画家并没有打开那扇门，而是爬到了床底下，从下面问 K：“再等一下，你不想看看我可以卖给你的一幅画吗？” K.不想失礼，画家确实站在了他这边，并承诺以后会更多地帮助他，而且由于K.的健忘，没有提及任何报酬，所以K.现在无法拒绝他，允许他给他看照片，尽管他因为不耐烦而颤抖着想要走出工作室。画家从床底下拿出一堆没有装框的画作。它们沾满了灰尘，以至于当画家试图把上面的灰尘吹掉时，灰尘在K.的眼前旋转，让他有一段时间无法呼吸。 “荒野风景。”画家把画递给 K 说。画上有两棵病弱的树，在深色的草丛中彼此相距甚远。背景是五彩斑斓的夕阳。 “太好了，”K 说，“我就买它。” K.不假思索地用这种简短的方式表达了自己的意思，所以当画家没有误会并从地板上拿起第二幅画时，他很高兴。 “这与第一幅画相对应，”画家说。 也许是有意为之，但它和第一张照片没有丝毫区别，有树，有草，有日落。但这对K来说并不重要。“它们都是美丽的风景，”他说，“我会把它们都买下来挂在我的办公室里。” “你似乎很喜欢这个题材，”画家拿起第三幅画说道，“干得好，我这里还有另一幅类似的画。”不过，这幅画并不相似，而是一模一样的荒原景观。画家充分利用这个机会变卖他的旧画。 “我也想要这一幅，”K说，“这三幅画多少钱？” “我们下次可以讨论这个问题，”画家说。 “你现在很着急，我们仍然会保持联系。另外，我很高兴你喜欢这些画，我会把我在这里的所有画都给你。都是荒野风景，我画了很多荒野风景。很多人不喜欢这类照片，因为它们太阴郁了，但还有其他人，你就是其中之一，喜欢阴郁的主题。”但K.并没有心情听这位画家兼乞丐的职业经历。 “把他们都包起来！”他打断了画家的话，大声喊道：“我的仆人明天早上就会来把它们拿来。” “没有必要，”画家说。 “我希望我现在能为你找到一个可以和你一起去的搬运工。”最后，他靠在床边，打开了门。 “只要踩在床上就可以了，不用担心，”画家说，“每个来这里的人都会这么做。”即使没有这个邀请，K. 他毫无悔意地把脚放在了床罩的中间，然后他透过敞开的门往外看，又把脚收回来。 “那是什么？”他问画家。 “你有什么好惊讶的？”他问道，轮到他感到惊讶了。 “那些是法院办公室。你不知道这里有法院吗？几乎每个阁楼都有法院办公室，为什么这座大楼会有什么不同呢？甚至我的工作室实际上也是法院办公室之一，但法院将其交给我使用。”令K感到震惊的并不是在这里找到法院办公室，而是他主要对自己感到震惊，对自己在法庭事务上的天真感到震惊。在他看来，指导被告行为的最基本规则之一就是始终做好准备，绝不允许出现意外，当法官站在他左边时，绝不毫无戒心地向右看，而这正是最重要的。他不断违反的基本规则。一条长长的走廊从他的身前延伸出来，空气从里面吹进来，与画室里的空气相比，显得格外清新。走廊两边都设置了长凳，就像他自己去办公室的等候区一样。似乎有明确的规则来管理办公室的装备。那天去办公室的人似乎并不多。那里有一个人，半坐半躺，脸埋在长凳上的手臂里，似乎正在睡觉；走廊尽头的半明半暗中还站着另一个男人。 K.现在爬到床上，画家拿着画跟着他。他们很快就遇到了宫廷的仆人K。 现在，他能够通过便服上普通纽扣下方的金色纽扣认出宫廷里的所有​​仆人，画家指示他带着图画和 K. 一起去。 K. 走路时摇摇晃晃，用手帕捂着嘴。快到出口时，女孩们冲了过来，K. 没能避开他们。他们清楚地看到工作室的第二扇门已经打开，并且从这边绕到了他的面前。 “我不能再陪你了！”当女孩们挤进来时，画家笑着喊道。“再见，不要犹豫太久！” K.甚至没有回头看他一眼。一到街上，他就搭上了他遇到的第一辆出租车。现在他必须摆脱那个仆人，他的金纽扣不断引起他的注意，即使它没有引起其他人的注意。作为仆人，宫廷的仆人要坐在马车车厢上。但K.从那里把他追了下去。当K.到达银行门前时，已经是下午了。他本想把这些画留在出租车里，但担心有时他不得不让画家知道他还留着它们。于是他让人把照片带到办公室，锁在办公桌最下面的抽屉里，这样至少可以在接下来的几天里让副主任看不到它们。

Chapter Eight
第八章

Block, the businessman Dismissing the lawyer
商人布洛克解雇了律师

K. had at last made the decision to withdraw his defence from the lawyer. It was impossible to remove his doubts as to whether this was the right decision, but this was outweighed by his belief in its necessity. This decision, on the day he intended to go to see the lawyer, took a lot of the strength he needed for his work, he worked exceptionally slowly, he had to remain in his office a long time, and it was already past ten o’clock when he finally stood in front of the lawyer’s front door. Even before he rang he considered whether it might not be better to give the lawyer notice by letter or telephone, a personal conversation would certainly be very difficult. Nonetheless, K. did not actually want to do without it, if he gave notice by any other means it would be received in silence or with a few formulated words, and unless Leni could discover anything K. would never learn how the lawyer had taken his dismissal and what its consequences might be, in the lawyer’s not unimportant opinion. But sitting in front of him and taken by surprise by his dismissal, K. would be able easily to infer everything he wanted from the lawyer’s face and behaviour, even if he could not be induced to say very much. It was not even out of the question that K. might, after all, be persuaded that it would be best to leave his defence to the lawyer and withdraw his dismissal.
K.最终决定撤回律师的辩护。他对这是否是正确的决定的怀疑是不可能消除的，但他对其必要性的信念压倒了这一点。这个决定，在他打算去见律师的那天，耗费了他工作所需的大量力气，他工作起来异常缓慢，要在办公室待很长时间，而且时间已经十点多了。十点钟，他终于站在了律师的前门前。甚至在打电话之前，他就考虑过通过信件或电话通知律师是否更好，因为私人谈话肯定会非常困难。尽管如此，K.实际上并不想没有它，如果他通过任何其他方式发出通知，人们会默默地或用几句话表达出来，除非莱妮能发现任何事情，否则K.永远不会知道律师是如何采取行动的。在律师看来，他被解雇及其可能产生的后果并非不重要。但坐在他面前，对他被解雇感到惊讶，K. 可以很容易地从律师的表情和行为中推断出他想要的一切，即使他无法被诱导说太多。毕竟，K. 可能会被说服，认为最好将他的辩护留给律师并撤回他的驳回，这甚至不是不可能的。

As usual, there was at first no response to K.’s ring at the door. “Leni could be a bit quicker,” thought K. But he could at least be glad there was nobody else interfering as usually happened, be it the man in his nightshirt or anyone else who might bother him. As K. pressed on the button for the second time he looked back at the other door, but this time it, too, remained closed. At last, two eyes appeared at the spy-hatch in the lawyer’s door, although they weren’t Leni’s eyes. Someone unlocked the door, but kept himself pressed against it as he called back inside, “It’s him!”, and only then did he open the door properly. K. pushed against the door, as behind him he could already hear the key being hurriedly turned in the lock of the door to the other flat. When the door in front of him finally opened, he stormed straight into the hallway. Through the corridor which led between the rooms he saw Leni, to whom the warning cry of the door opener had been directed, still running away in her nightshirt . He looked at her for a moment and then looked round at the person who had opened the door. It was a small, wizened man with a full beard, he held a candle in his hand. “Do you work here?” asked K. “No,” answered the man, “I don’t belong here at all, the lawyer is only representing me, I’m here on legal business.” “Without your coat?” asked K., indicating the man’s deficiency of dress with a gesture of his hand. “Oh, do forgive me!” said the man, and he looked at himself in the light of the candle he was holding as if he had not known about his appearance until then. “Is Leni your lover?” asked K. curtly. He had set his legs slightly apart, his hands, in which he held his hat, were behind his back. Merely by being in possession of a thick overcoat he felt his advantage over this thin little man. “Oh God,” he said and, shocked, raised one hand in front of his face as if in defence, “no, no, what can you be thinking?” “You look honest enough,” said K. with a smile, “but come along anyway.” K. indicated with his hat which way the man was to go and let him go ahead of him. “What is you name then?” asked K. on the way. “Block. I’m a businessman,” said the small man, twisting himself round as he thus introduced himself, although K. did not allow him to stop moving. “Is that your real name?” asked K. “Of course it is,” was the man’s reply, “why do you doubt it?” “I thought you might have some reason to keep your name secret,” said K. He felt himself as much at liberty as is normally only felt in foreign parts when speaking with people of lower standing, keeping everything about himself to himself, speaking only casually about the interests of the other, able to raise him to a level above one’s own, but also able, at will, to let him drop again. K. stopped at the door of the lawyer’s office, opened it and, to the businessman who had obediently gone ahead, called, “Not so fast! Bring some light here!” K. thought Leni might have hidden in here, he let the businessman search in every corner, but the room was empty. In front of the picture of the judge K. took hold of the businessman’s braces to stop him moving on. “Do you know him?” he asked, pointing upwards with his finger. The businessman lifted the candle, blinked as he looked up and said, “It’s a judge.” “An important judge?” asked K., and stood to the side and in front of the businessman so that he could observe what impression the picture had on him. The businessman was looking up in admiration. “He’s an important judge.” “You don’t have much insight,” said K. “He is the lowest of the lowest examining judges.” “I remember now,” said the businessman as he lowered the candle, “that’s what I’ve already been told.” “Well of course you have,” called out K., “I’d forgotten about it, of course you would already have been told.” “But why, why?” asked the businessman as he moved forwards towards the door, propelled by the hands of K. Outside in the corridor K. said, “You know where Leni’s hidden, do you?” “Hidden?” said the businessman, “No, but she might be in the kitchen cooking soup for the lawyer.” “Why didn’t you say that immediately?” asked K. “I was going to take you there, but you called me back again,” answered the businessman, as if confused by the contradictory commands. “You think you’re very clever, don’t you,” said K, “now take me there!” K. had never been in the kitchen, it was surprisingly big and very well equipped. The stove alone was three times bigger than normal stoves, but it was not possible to see any detail beyond this as the kitchen was at the time illuminated by no more than a small lamp hanging by the entrance. At the stove stood Leni, in a white apron as always, breaking eggs into a pot standing on a spirit lamp. “Good evening, Josef,” she said with a glance sideways. “Good evening,” said K., pointing with one hand to a chair in a corner which the businessman was to sit on, and he did indeed sit down on it. K. however went very close behind Leni’s back, leant over her shoulder and asked, “Who is this man?” Leni put one hand around K. as she stirred the soup with the other, she drew him forward toward herself and said, “He’s a pitiful character, a poor businessman by the name of Block. Just look at him.” The two of them looked back over their shoulders. The businessman was sitting on the chair that K. had directed him to, he had extinguished the candle whose light was no longer needed and pressed on the wick with his fingers to stop the smoke. “You were in your nightshirt,” said K., putting his hand on her head and turning it back towards the stove. She was silent. “Is he your lover?” asked K. She was about to take hold of the pot of soup, but K. took both her hands and said, “Answer me!” She said, “Come into the office, I’ll explain everything to you.” “No,” said K., “I want you to explain it here.” She put her arms around him and wanted to kiss him. K., though, pushed her away and said, “I don’t want you to kiss me now.” “Josef,” said Leni, looking at K. imploringly but frankly in the eyes, “you’re not going to be jealous of Mr. Block now, are you? Rudi,” she then said, turning to the businessman, “help me out will you, I’m being suspected of something, you can see that, leave the candle alone.” It had looked as though Mr. Block had not been paying attention but he had been following closely. “I don’t even know why you might be jealous,” he said ingenuously. “Nor do I, actually,” said K., looking at the businessman with a smile. Leni laughed out loud and while K. was not paying attention took the opportunity of embracing him and whispering, “Leave him alone, now, you can see what sort of person he is. I’ve been helping him a little bit because he’s an important client of the lawyer’s, and no other reason. And what about you? Do you want to speak to the lawyer at this time of day? He’s very unwell today, but if you want I’ll tell him you’re here. But you can certainly spend the night with me. It’s so long since you were last here, even the lawyer has been asking about you. Don’t neglect your case! And I’ve got some things to tell you that I’ve learned about. But now, before anything else, take your coat off!” She helped him off with his coat, took the hat off his head, ran with the things into the hallway to hang them up, then she ran back and saw to the soup. “Do you want me to tell him you’re here straight away or take him his soup first?” “Tell him I’m here first,” said K. He was in a bad mood, he had originally intended a detailed discussion of his business with Leni, especially the question of his giving the lawyer notice, but now he no longer wanted to because of the presence of the businessman. Now he considered his affair too important to let this little businessman take part in it and perhaps change some of his decisions, and so he called Leni back even though she was already on her way to the lawyer. “Bring him his soup first,” he said, “I want him to get his strength up for the discussion with me, he’ll need it.” “You’re a client of the lawyer’s too, aren’t you,” said the businessman quietly from his corner as if he were trying to find this out. It was not, however, taken well. “What business is that of yours?” said K., and Leni said, “Will you be quiet. I’ll take him his soup first then, shall I?” And she poured the soup into a dish. “The only worry then is that he might go to sleep soon after he’s eaten.” “What I’ve got to say to him will keep him awake,” said K., who still wanted to intimate that he intended some important negotiations with the lawyer, he wanted Leni to ask him what it was and only then to ask her advice. But instead, she just promptly carried out the order he had given her. When she went over to him with the dish she deliberately brushed against him and whispered, “I’ll tell him you’re here as soon as he’s eaten the soup so that I can get you back as soon as possible.” “Just go,” said K., “just go.” “Be a bit more friendly,” she said and, still holding the dish, turned completely round once more in the doorway.
和往常一样，K.在门口按响门铃，一开始没有任何反应。 “莱尼可以再快一点，”K想。但他至少可以庆幸没有其他人像往常一样干涉，无论是穿着睡衣的男人还是其他任何可能打扰他的人。当K第二次按下按钮时，他回头看了看另一扇门，但这一次它也仍然关着。最后，有两只眼睛出现在律师门的间谍舱口处，虽然那不是莱妮的眼睛。有人打开门锁，但他还是把自己按在门上，向里面喊道：“是他！”这才把门正常打开。 K.推着门，在他身后，他已经能听到钥匙在另一间公寓的门锁中匆匆转动的声音。当他面前的门终于打开时，他径直冲进了走廊。穿过房间之间的走廊，他看到莱妮，开门器的警告声就是针对她的，她仍然穿着睡衣逃跑。他看了她一会儿，然后转头看向开门的人。那是一个身材矮小、干瘪的男人，留着大胡子，手里拿着一支蜡烛。 “你在这工作吗？” “不，”那人回答道，“我根本不属于这里，律师只是代表我，我来这里是为了法律事务。” “没有穿外套吗？” K.问道，并用手势表明了该男子衣着的缺陷。 “哦，请原谅我！”那人说道，他在手中的蜡烛光下看着自己，仿佛在那之前他才知道自己的样子。 “莱妮是你的情人吗？” K. 简短地问道。他双腿稍微分开，拿着帽子的手放在背后。 仅仅因为拥有一件厚大衣，他就觉得自己比这个瘦小个子更有优势。 “天哪，”他震惊地举起一只手挡在脸前，仿佛在辩护，“不，不，你在想什么？” “你看上去很诚实，”K. 微笑着说，“不过还是跟来吧。” K. 用帽子指示那个人要走哪条路，让他走在前面。 “那你叫什么名字？” K.在路上问道。 “堵塞。我是个商人。”小个子男人一边扭身一边介绍自己，尽管 K. 并没有让他停下来。 “这是你的真名吗？” K问。“当然是这样，”那人回答道，“你为什么怀疑呢？” “我想你可能有一些理由保守你的名字，”K说。他觉得自己很自由，就像通常只有在异国他乡与地位较低的人交谈时才能感受到的那样，他把自己的一切都保密，只说话随意考虑对方的利益，可以把他提升到自己之上，也可以随意让他下降。 K.在律师事务所门口停下来，打开门，对乖乖走在前面的商人喊道：“别这么快！给这里带来一些光！” K.以为莱妮可能藏在这里，他让商人搜遍每个角落，但房间里空无一人。在法官的照片前，K.抓住商人的牙套，阻止他继续前进。 “你认识他吗？”他用手指向上指着问道。商人举起蜡烛，抬头眨了眨眼睛，说道：“是法官。” “重要的法官？” K.问道，并站在商人面前，以便观察这张照片给他留下的印象。商人抬起头，露出钦佩的目光。 “他是一位重要的法官。” “你没有太多的洞察力，”K说，“他是最低级预审法官中最低级的。” “我现在想起来了，”商人一边说，一边放下蜡烛，“我已经被告知了。” “当然，你已经知道了，”K喊道，“我已经忘记了，当然，你已经被告知了。” “但是为什么，为什么？” ”商人一边问道，一边在K的手的推动下朝门口走去。外面的走廊上，K说道：“你知道莱妮藏在哪里吗？ “隐？”商人说：“没有，但她可能在厨房里给律师煮汤。” “你为什么不立即说？” K问道。“我本来要带你去那里的，但你又叫我回来了。”商人回答道，似乎对这些相互矛盾的命令感到困惑。 “你以为你很聪明，不是吗？”K说，“现在带我去吧！” K.从来没有去过厨房，厨房大得出奇，而且设备齐全。仅炉子就比普通炉子大三倍，但无法看到除此之外的任何细节，因为当时厨房的照明只不过是入口处悬挂的一盏小灯。莱妮站在炉边，一如既往地系着白色围裙，正在把鸡蛋打进放在酒精灯上的锅里。 “晚上好，约瑟夫，”她斜眼看了一眼说道。 “晚上好。”K. 用一只手指着角落里的一把椅子，商人确实坐了下来。 K.却走到莱妮的背后，靠在她的肩膀上问道：“这个男人是谁？”莱妮用一只手搂住K，用另一只手搅拌汤，把他拉到自己面前，说道：“他是个可怜的人，一个可怜的商人，名叫布洛克。只要看看他。” 两人回头看了一眼。商人坐在K.指点的椅子上，将不再需要的蜡烛熄灭，并用手指压住灯芯，止住了烟雾。 “你穿着睡衣，”K. 说着，把手放在她的头上，然后又转向炉子。她沉默了。 “他是你的爱人吗？” K问道，她正要接起汤锅，K却拉住了她的双手，说道：“回答我！”她说：“到办公室来，我向你解释一切。” “不，”K 说，“我希望你在这里解释一下。”她张开双臂搂住他，想要亲吻他。 K.却把她推开，说道：“我现在不想让你吻我。” “约瑟夫，”莱妮说道，眼神恳求但坦率地看着K，“你现在不会嫉妒布洛克先生了，是吗？鲁迪，”她转向商人说道，“帮帮我吧，我被怀疑有什么事情，你可以看到，别管蜡烛了。”布洛克先生看起来好像没有注意到，但他一直在密切关注。 “我什至不知道你为什么会嫉妒，”他坦率地说。 “实际上我也不知道，”K. 微笑着看着商人说道。莱妮哈哈大笑，趁K.不注意的机会，抱住了他，低声说道：“别管他，现在你就知道他是一个什么样的人了。”我一直在帮助他，因为他是律师的重要客户，没有其他原因。那你呢？您想在这个时间与律师交谈吗？他今天身体不太舒服，但如果你愿意的话我可以告诉他你在这里。但你当然可以和我一起过夜。 你上次来这里已经很久了，连律师都在打听你的情况。不要忽视你的情况！我有一些我了解到的事情要告诉你。但现在，先把外套脱掉！”她帮他脱下外套，摘下他头上的帽子，带着东西跑到走廊上把它们挂起来，然后她跑回来照顾汤。 “你想让我告诉他你马上就到了，还是先给他喝汤？” “先告诉他我来了。”K说道。他心情不好，本来还想和莱妮详细讨论一下自己的事情，尤其是通知律师的问题，但现在他已经不想了。因为商人的存在。现在他认为自己的事情太重要了，不能让这个小商人参与其中，甚至可能改变他的一些决定，所以他给莱妮回了电话，尽管她已经在去找律师的路上了。 “先把汤给他端来，”他说，“我想让他恢复体力来跟我讨论，他需要它。” “你也是律师的委托人，不是吗？”商人在他的角落里小声说道，好像他想弄清楚这一点。然而，它并没有得到很好的对待。 “关你什么事？” K. 说，莱妮说：“你能安静点吗？那我先给他喝汤，可以吗？”她把汤倒进盘子里。 “唯一担心的是他吃完饭后可能很快就会睡着。” “我要对他说的话会让他保持清醒，”K. 说，他仍然想暗示他打算与律师进行一些重要的谈判，他希望莱妮先问他是什么，然后再问她。建议。但她只是迅速执行了他给她的命令。 当她端着菜走到他面前时，她故意蹭着他，小声说道：“等他喝完汤我就告诉他你来了，这样我就能尽快把你接回来。” “走吧，”K说，“走吧。” “友好一点，”她说着，手里还拿着盘子，在门口再次彻底转过身来。

K. watched her as she went; the decision had finally been made that the lawyer was to be dismissed, it was probably better that he had not been able to discuss the matter any more with Leni beforehand; she hardly understood the complexity of the matter, she would certainly have advised him against it and perhaps would even have prevented him from dismissing the lawyer this time, he would have remained in doubt and unease and eventually have carried out his decision after a while anyway as this decision was something he could not avoid. The sooner it was carried out the more harm would be avoided. And moreover, perhaps the businessman had something to say on the matter.
K.一边走一边看着她。既然决定解雇律师，他最好不能事先和莱妮再讨论这件事；她几乎不明白事情的复杂性，她肯定会建议他不要这样做，甚至可能会阻止他这次解雇律师，他会一直保持怀疑和不安，无论如何，最终会在一段时间后执行他的决定因为这个决定是他无法避免的。越早实施，就能避免更多的伤害。而且，也许这位商人对此事还有话要说。

K. turned round, the businessman hardly noticed it as he was about to stand up. “Stay where you are,” said K. and pulled up a chair beside him. “Have you been a client of the lawyer’s for a long time?” asked K. “Yes,” said the businessman, “a very long time.” “How many years has he been representing you so far, then?” asked K. “I don’t know how you mean,” said the businessman, “he’s been my business lawyer I buy and sell cereals he’s been my business lawyer since I took the business over, and that’s about twenty years now, but perhaps you mean my own trial and he’s been representing me in that since it started, and that’s been more than five years. Yes, well over five years,” he then added, pulling out an old briefcase, “I’ve got everything written down; I can tell you the exact dates if you like. It’s so hard to remember everything. Probably, my trial’s been going on much longer than that, it started soon after the death of my wife, and that’s been more than five and a half years now.” K. moved in closer to him. “So the lawyer takes on ordinary legal business, does he?” he asked. This combination of criminal and commercial business seemed surprisingly reassuring for K. “Oh yes,” said the businessman, and then he whispered, “They even say he’s more efficient in jurisprudence than he is in other matters.” But then he seemed to regret saying this, and he laid a hand on K.’s shoulder and said, “Please don’t betray me to him, will you.” K. patted his thigh to reassure him and said, “No, I don’t betray people.” “He can be so vindictive, you see,” said the businessman. “I’m sure he won’t do anything against such a faithful client as you,” said K. “Oh, he might do,” said the businessman, “when he gets cross it doesn’t matter who it is, and anyway, I’m not really faithful to him.” “How’s that then?” asked K. “I’m not sure I should tell you about it,” said the businessman hesitantly. “I think it’ll be alright,” said K. “Well then,” said the businessman, “I’ll tell you about some of it, but you’ll have to tell me a secret too, then we can support each other with the lawyer.” “You are very careful,” said K., “but I’ll tell you a secret that will set your mind completely at ease. Now tell me, in what way have you been unfaithful to the lawyer?” “I’ve …” said the businessman hesitantly, and in a tone as if he were confessing something dishonourable, “I’ve taken on other lawyers besides him.” “That’s not so serious,” said K., a little disappointed. “It is, here,” said the businessman, who had had some difficulty breathing since making his confession but who now, after hearing K.’s comment, began to feel more trust for him. “That’s not allowed. And it’s allowed least of all to take on petty lawyers when you’ve already got a proper one. And that’s just what I have done, besides him I’ve got five petty lawyers.” “Five!” exclaimed K., astonished at this number, “Five lawyers besides this one?” The businessman nodded. “I’m even negotiating with a sixth one.” “But why do you need so many lawyers?” asked K. “I need all of them,” said the businessman. “Would you mind explaining that to me?” asked K. “I’d be glad to,” said the businessman. “Most of all, I don’t want to lose my case, well that’s obvious. So that means I mustn’t neglect anything that might be of use to me; even if there’s very little hope of a particular thing being of any use I can’t just throw it away. So everything I have I’ve put to use in my case. I’ve taken all the money out of my business, for example, the offices for my business used to occupy nearly a whole floor, but now all I need is a little room at the back where I work with one apprentice. It wasn’t just using up the money that caused the difficulty, of course, it was much more to do with me not working at the business as much as I used to. If you want to do something about your trial you don’t have much time for anything else.” “So you’re also working at the court yourself?” asked K. “That’s just what I want to learn more about.” “I can’t tell you very much about that,” said the businessman, “at first I tried to do that too but I soon had to give it up again. It wears you out too much, and it’s really not much use. And it turned out to be quite impossible to work there yourself and to negotiate, at least for me it was. It’s a heavy strain there just sitting and waiting. You know yourself what the air is like in those offices.” “How do you know I’ve been there, then?” asked K. “I was in the waiting room myself when you went through.” “What a coincidence that is!” exclaimed K., totally engrossed and forgetting how ridiculous the businessman had seemed to him earlier. “So you saw me! You were in the waiting room when I went through. Yes, I did go through it one time.” “It isn’t such a big coincidence,” said the businessman, “I’m there nearly every day.” “I expect I’ll have to go there quite often myself now,” said K., “although I can hardly expect to be shown the same respect as I was then. They all stood up for me. They must have thought I was a judge.” “No,” said the businessman, “we were greeting the servant of the court. We knew you were a defendant. That sort of news spreads very quickly.” “So you already knew about that,” said K., “the way I behaved must have seemed very arrogant to you. Did you criticise me for it afterwards?” “No,” said the businessman, “quite the opposite. That was just stupidity.” “What do you mean, ‘stupidity’?” asked K. “Why are you asking about it?” said the businessman in some irritation. “You still don’t seem to know the people there and you might take it wrong. Don’t forget in proceedings like this there are always lots of different things coming up to talk about, things that you just can’t understand with reason alone, you just get too tired and distracted for most things and so, instead, people rely on superstition. I’m talking about the others, but I’m no better myself. One of these superstitions, for example, is that you can learn a lot about the outcome of a defendant’s case by looking at his face, especially the shape of his lips. There are lots who believe that, and they said they could see from the shape of your lips that you’d definitely be found guilty very soon. I repeat that all this is just a ridiculous superstition, and in most cases it’s completely disproved by the facts, but when you live in that society it’s hard to hold yourself back from beliefs like that. Just think how much effect that superstition can have. You spoke to one of them there, didn’t you? He was hardly able to give you an answer. There are lots of things there that can make you confused, of course, but one of them, for him, was the appearance of your lips. He told us all later he thought he could see something in your lips that meant he’d be convicted himself.” “On my lips?” asked K., pulling out a pocket mirror and examining himself. “I can see nothing special about my lips. Can you?” “Nor can I,” said the businessman, “nothing at all.” “These people are so superstitious!” exclaimed K. “Isn’t that what I just told you?” asked the businessman. “Do you then have that much contact with each other, exchanging each other’s opinions?” said K. “I’ve kept myself completely apart so far.” “They don’t normally have much contact with each other,” said the businessman, “that would be impossible, there are so many of them. And they don’t have much in common either. If a group of them ever thinks they have found something in common it soon turns out they were mistaken. There’s nothing you can do as a group where the court’s concerned. Each case is examined separately, the court is very painstaking. So there’s nothing to be achieved by forming into a group, only sometimes an individual will achieve something in secret; and it’s only when that’s been done the others learn about it; nobody knows how it was done. So there’s no sense of togetherness, you meet people now and then in the waiting rooms, but we don’t talk much there. The superstitious beliefs were established a long time ago and they spread all by themselves.” “I saw those gentlemen in the waiting room,” said K., “it seemed so pointless for them to be waiting in that way.” “Waiting is not pointless,” said the businessman, “it’s only pointless if you try and interfere yourself. I told you just now I’ve got five lawyers besides this one. You might think I thought it myself at first you might think I could leave the whole thing entirely up to them now. That would be entirely wrong. I can leave it up to them less than when I had just the one. Maybe you don’t understand that, do you?” “No,” said K., and to slow the businessman down, who had been speaking too fast, he laid his hand on the businessman’s to reassure him, “but I’d like just to ask you to speak a little more slowly, these are many very important things for me, and I can’t follow exactly what you’re saying.” “You’re quite right to remind me of that,” said the businessman, “you’re new to all this, a junior. Your trial is six months old, isn’t it? Yes, I’ve heard about it. Such a new case! But I’ve already thought all these things through countless times, to me they’re the most obvious things in the world.” “You must be glad your trial has already progressed so far, are you?” asked K., he did not wish to ask directly how the businessman’s affairs stood, but received no clear answer anyway. “Yes, I’ve been working at my trial for five years now,” said the businessman as his head sank, “that’s no small achievement.” Then he was silent for a while. K. listened to hear whether Leni was on her way back. On the one hand he did not want her to come back too soon as he still had many questions to ask and did not want her to find him in this intimate discussion with the businessman, but on the other hand it irritated him that she stayed so long with the lawyer when K. was there, much longer than she needed to give him his soup. “I still remember it exactly,” the businessman began again, and K. immediately gave him his full attention, “when my case was as old as yours is now. I only had this one lawyer at that time but I wasn’t very satisfied with him.” Now I’ll find out everything, thought K., nodding vigorously as if he could thereby encourage the businessman to say everything worth knowing. “My case,” the businessman continued, “didn’t move on at all, there were some hearings that took place and I went to every one of them, collected materials, handed all my business books to the court which I later found was entirely unnecessary I ran back and forth to the lawyer, and he submitted various documents to the court too …” “Various documents?” asked K. “Yes, that’s right,” said the businessman. “That’s very important for me,” said K., “in my case he’s still working on the first set of documents. He still hasn’t done anything. I see now that he’s been neglecting me quite disgracefully.” “There can be lots of good reasons why the first documents still aren’t ready,” said the businessman, “and anyway, it turned out later on that the ones he submitted for me were entirely worthless. I even read one of them myself, one of the officials at the court was very helpful. It was very learned, but it didn’t actually say anything. Most of all, there was lots of Latin, which I can’t understand, then pages and pages of general appeals to the court, then lots of flattery for particular officials, they weren’t named, these officials, but anyone familiar with the court must have been able to guess who they were, then there was self-praise by the lawyer where he humiliated himself to the court in a way that was downright dog-like, and then endless investigations of cases from the past which were supposed to be similar to mine. Although, as far as I was able to follow them, these investigations had been carried out very carefully. Now, I don’t mean to criticise the lawyer’s work with all of this, and the document I read was only one of many, but even so, and this is something I will say, at that time I couldn’t see any progress in my trial at all.” “And what sort of progress had you been hoping for?” asked K. “That’s a very sensible question,” said the businessman with a smile, “it’s only very rare that you see any progress in these proceedings at all. But I didn’t know that then. I’m a businessman, much more in those days than now, I wanted to see some tangible progress, it should have all been moving to some conclusion or at least should have been moving on in some way according to the rules. Instead of which there were just more hearings, and most of them went through the same things anyway; I had all the answers off pat like in a church service; there were messengers from the court coming to me at work several times a week, or they came to me at home or anywhere else they could find me; and that was very disturbing of course (but at least now things are better in that respect, it’s much less disturbing when they contact you by telephone), and rumours about my trial even started to spread among some of the people I do business with, and especially my relations, so I was being made to suffer in many different ways but there was still not the slightest sign that even the first hearing would take place soon. So I went to the lawyer and complained about it. He explained it all to me at length, but refused to do anything I asked for, no-one has any influence on the way the trial proceeds, he said, to try and insist on it in any of the documents submitted like I was asking was simply unheard of and would do harm to both him and me. I thought to myself: What this lawyer can’t or won’t do another lawyer will. So I looked round for other lawyers. And before you say anything: none of them asked for a definite date for the main trial and none of them got one, and anyway, apart form one exception which I’ll talk about in a minute, it really is impossible, that’s one thing this lawyer didn’t mislead me about; but besides, I had no reason to regret turning to other lawyers. Perhaps you’ve already heard how Dr. Huld talks about the petty lawyers, he probably made them sound very contemptible to you, and he’s right, they are contemptible. But when he talks about them and compares them with himself and his colleagues there’s a small error running through what he says, and, just for your interest, I’ll tell you about it. When he talks about the lawyers he mixes with he sets them apart by calling them the ‘great lawyers’. That’s wrong, anyone can call himself ‘great’ if he wants to, of course, but in this case only the usage of the court can make that distinction. You see, the court says that besides the petty lawyers there are also minor lawyers and great lawyers. This one and his colleagues are only minor lawyers, and the difference in rank between them and the great lawyers, who I’ve only ever heard about and never seen, is incomparably greater than between the minor lawyers and the despised petty lawyers.” “The great lawyers?” asked K. “Who are they then? How do you contact them?” “You’ve never heard about them, then?” said the businessman. “There’s hardly anyone who’s been accused who doesn’t spend a lot of time dreaming about the great lawyers once he’s heard about them. It’s best if you don’t let yourself be misled in that way. I don’t know who the great lawyers are, and there’s probably no way of contacting them. I don’t know of any case I can talk about with certainty where they’ve taken any part. They do defend a lot of people, but you can’t get hold of them by your own efforts, they only defend those who they want to defend. And I don’t suppose they ever take on cases that haven’t already got past the lower courts. Anyway, it’s best not to think about them, as if you do it makes the discussions with the other lawyers, all their advice and all that they do manage to achieve, seem so unpleasant and useless, I had that experience myself, just wanted to throw everything away and lay at home in bed and hear nothing more about it. But that, of course, would be the stupidest thing you could do, and you wouldn’t be left in peace in bed for very long either.” “So you weren’t thinking about the great lawyers at that time?” asked K. “Not for very long,” said the businessman, and smiled again, “you can’t forget about them entirely, I’m afraid, especially in the night when these thoughts come so easily. But I wanted immediate results in those days, so I went to the petty lawyers.”
K.转过身来，商人几乎没有注意到，他正要站起来。 “呆在原地，”K. 说着拉过一把椅子到他旁边。 “你是律师的客户很久了吗？” K问道。“是的，”商人说，“很长一段时间了。” “那他代表你工作了多少年了？” “我不明白你的意思，”商人说，“他一直是我的商业律师，我买卖谷物，自从我接手公司以来，他一直是我的商业律师，现在大约有二十年了，但也许你指的是我自己的审判，从审判开始以来他就一直代表我，已经五年多了。是的，已经五年多了，”他接着拿出一个旧公文包补充道，“我已经把一切都写下来了；如果您愿意，我可以告诉您确切的日期。记住一切真是太难了。也许，我的审判持续的时间比这要长得多，它是在我妻子去世后不久开始的，到现在已经五年半多了。” K.离他更近了。 “那么律师从事的是普通的法律业务，是吗？”他问。这种犯罪和商业业务的结合似乎出人意料地让 K 放心。“哦，是的，”商人说，然后他低声说道，“他们甚至说他在法学方面比在其他事务上更有效率。”但随后他似乎后悔说了这句话，他把手放在K.的肩膀上说：“请不要向他出卖我，好吗？” K.拍拍大腿安抚道：“不，我不会背叛人。” “你看，他的报复心是如此之大，”这位商人说。 “我确信他不会对像你这样忠实的客户采取任何行动，”K 说。 “哦，他可能会这么做，”商人说，“当他生气时，不管是谁，反正我对他并不忠诚。” “那怎么样？” “我不确定是否应该告诉你这件事，”商人犹豫地说。 “我想没关系，”K说。“那么，”商人说，“我会告诉你其中一些，但你也必须告诉我一个秘密，然后我们就可以支持每个人了。”其他与律师。” “你很小心，”K说，“但我会告诉你一个秘密，让你放心。现在告诉我，你在哪些方面对律师不忠？” “我……”商人吞吞吐吐地说，语气像是在承认一些不光彩的事情，“除了他之外，我还聘请了其他律师。” “事情没那么严重，”K 有点失望地说。 “就是这里，”这位商人说，自坦白以来，他一直呼吸困难，但现在，在听到 K. 的评论后，他开始对他更加信任。 “这是不允许的。当你已经有了合适的律师时，最不应该聘请小律师。我就是这么做的，除了他之外，我还有五个小律师。” “五！” K. 对这个数字感到惊讶，大声说道：“除了这位律师之外，还有五位律师？”商人点点头。 “我什至正在与第六个进行谈判。” “但是为什么需要这么多律师呢？” K问道。“我需要所有这些，”商人说。 “你介意向我解释一下吗？” K 问。“我很乐意，”商人说。 “最重要的是，我不想输掉官司，这是显而易见的。所以这意味着我不能忽视任何可能对我有用的事情；即使某件东西有任何用处的希望很小，我也不能就扔掉它。所以我已经把我拥有的一切都用在了我的案例上。 我把生意上的钱都拿走了，比如说，以前我生意的办公室几乎占据了一整层楼，但现在我只需要后面的一个小房间，我和一个学徒一起工作。当然，造成困难的不仅仅是用完钱，更多的是因为我不再像以前那样在公司工作。如果你想在审判中做点什么，你就没有太多时间做其他事情。” “所以你自己也在法庭工作？” K 问道。“这正是我想了解更多的内容。” “关于这一点我不能告诉你太多，”这位商人说，“一开始我也尝试这样做，但很快我又不得不放弃了。它让你太累了，而且真的没有多大用处。事实证明，自己在那里工作并进行谈判是完全不可能的，至少对我来说是这样。坐在那儿等待是一种沉重的压力。你自己知道那些办公室的空气是什么样的。” “那你怎么知道我去过那里？” K问道。“你经过的时候我正在候诊室里。” “这真是巧合啊！” “K.全神贯注地喊道，忘记了早些时候在他看来这个商人是多么可笑。 “所以你看到了我！我经过的时候你在候诊室。是的，我确实经历过一次。” “这并不是什么大巧合，”这位商人说，“我几乎每天都在那里。” “我预计我现在必须经常亲自去那里，”K. 说，“尽管我很难指望得到像当时那样的尊重。他们都站出来支持我。他们肯定以为我是法官。” “不，”商人说，“我们是在迎接宫廷的仆人。我们知道你是被告。这种消息传播得很快。” “所以你已经知道了，”K 说。” “我的行为方式在你看来一定很傲慢。后来你有批评过我吗？” “不，”商人说，“恰恰相反。那只是愚蠢的行为。” “你说‘愚蠢’是什么意思？” K问道。“你为什么问这个？”商人有些恼怒的说道。 “你似乎仍然不了解那里的人，你可能会误解。不要忘记，在这样的程序中，总是有很多不同的事情需要讨论，这些事情你无法仅凭理性来理解，你只是对大多数事情感到太累和分心，所以，相反，人们依赖关于迷信。我说的是其他人，但我自己也好不了多少。例如，这些迷信之一是，通过观察被告的脸，尤其是嘴唇的形状，您可以了解很多有关被告案件结果的信息。有很多人相信这一点，他们说从你嘴唇的形状可以看出你很快就会被判有罪。我再说一遍，这一切只是一种可笑的迷信，而且在大多数情况下它完全被事实所反驳，但当你生活在那个社会中时，你很难不去相信这样的信念。试想一下，这种迷信能产生多大的影响。你在那里和其中一位交谈过，不是吗？他几乎无法给你答案。当然，有很多事情会让你感到困惑，但对他来说，其中之一就是你嘴唇的外观。后来他告诉我们，他认为他能在你的嘴唇上看到一些东西，这意味着他自己也会被定罪。” “在我的嘴唇上？” K.一边问道，一边掏出一面小镜子审视自己。 “我看不出我的嘴唇有什么特别的地方。你可以吗？” “我也不能，”商人说，“什么也做不了。” “这些人太迷信了！”K惊呼道。“这不是我刚刚告诉你的吗？商人问道。 “那你们有那么频繁的接触，交换意见吗？” K说，“到目前为止，我一直完全与自己保持距离。” “他们平时接触不多，”商人说，“那是不可能的，人太多了。而且他们也没有太多共同点。如果他们中的一群人认为他们找到了一些共同点，那么很快就会发现他们错了。对于法庭而言，作为一个团体，你无能为力。每个案件都单独审理，法庭非常煞费苦心。所以结成一个团体是没有什么成就的，只是有时候一个人会暗中有所成就；只有当这件事完成后，其他人才会知道；没有人知道它是如何完成的。所以没有团聚的感觉，你偶尔会在候诊室遇到人，但我们在那里交谈不多。迷信是很早以前就建立起来的，而且都是自行传播的。” “我在候诊室里看到了那些先生，”K. 说，“他们这样等待似乎毫无意义。” “等待并不是没有意义的，”商人说，“只有你试图干扰自己，等待才是没有意义的。我刚才告诉你，除了这位之外，我还有五位律师。你可能会认为我一开始就是这么想的，你可能会认为我现在可以把整个事情完全交给他们了。那是完全错误的。与我只有一个人时相比，我可以更少地把这件事留给他们。也许你不明白这一点，是吗？” “不，”K说。”，为了让说话太快的商人放慢速度，他把手放在商人的手上安抚他，“但我只是想请你说慢一点，这些对于很多人来说都是非常重要的事情。我，我不能完全听懂你所说的。” “你提醒我这一点是对的，”商人说，“你对这一切都是新手，一个新人。你的审判已经过去六个月了，不是吗？是的，我听说过。这么新的案例！但我已经无数次地思考过这些事情，对我来说，它们是世界上最明显的事情。” “你一定很高兴你的审判已经取得了进展，是吗？” K.问道，他不想直接询问商人的事情进展如何，但无论如何都没有得到明确的答复。 “是的，我的试验工作已经五年了，”商人低下头说道，“这是一个不小的成就。”然后他沉默了一会儿。 K. 听着莱妮是否在回来的路上。一方面，他不想让她太早回来，因为他还有很多问题要问，也不想让她在与商人的亲密讨论中找到他，但另一方面，她留下来却让他很恼火。当K.在场时，她和律师待了很长时间，比她给他喝汤所需的时间要长得多。 “我还记得很清楚，”商人又开始说道，K.立即全神贯注地听着他，“当时我的箱子和你现在的箱子一样古老。当时我只有这一位律师，但我对他不是很满意。”现在我会查出一切，K.想道，用力地点点头，仿佛他可以借此鼓励商人说出一切值得知道的事情。 “我的案子，”这位商人继续说道，“根本没有进展，举行了一些听证会，我去了每一场听证会，收集了材料，将我所有的商业书籍交给了法庭，后来我发现这些书籍是完全没必要我来回跑去找律师，他也向法院提交了各种文件……” “各种文件？ “是的，没错，”商人说。 “这对我来说非常重要，”K. 说，“就我而言，他仍在处理第一组文件。他仍然什么也没做。我现在发现他一直在无耻地忽视我。” “第一份文件还没有准备好可能有很多充分的理由，”这位商人说，“无论如何，后来发现他为我提交的文件完全没有价值。我什至自己读过其中一篇，法庭的一位官员非常有帮助。很有学问，但实际上什么也没说。最重要的是，有很多拉丁语，我听不懂，然后是一页又一页向法院提出的一般性上诉，然后是对特定官员的大量奉承，他们没有被点名，这些官员，但任何熟悉该法律的人都知道。法庭一定能猜出他们是谁，然后是律师的自我吹捧，在法庭上以一种彻头彻尾的狗一样的方式羞辱自己，然后是对过去案件的无休止的调查，这些案件本来应该是和我的类似。不过，就我所能追踪的范围而言，这些调查进行得非常仔细。现在，我并不是想用这一切来批评律师的工作，我读到的文件只是其中之一，但即便如此，这就是我要说的，当时我看不到任何进展在我的审判中。” “你希望取得什么样的进展？ “这是一个非常明智的问题，”商人微笑着说，“你很少看到这些诉讼有任何进展。但当时我还不知道。我是一名商人，那时候比现在更多，我希望看到一些切实的进展，一切都应该得出某种结论，或者至少应该按照规则以某种方式继续前进。但取而代之的是更多的听证会，而且大多数听证会都经历了同样的事情；我就像在教堂礼拜中一样得到了所有的答案；宫廷的使者每周都会来找我几次，或者他们会到我家或任何他们能找到我的地方来找我。这当然非常令人不安（但至少现在在这方面情况好多了，当他们通过电话联系你时，你的不安要少得多），关于我的审判的谣言甚至开始在与我做生意的一些人中传播，尤其是我的亲戚，所以我在很多方面都受到了痛苦，但仍然没有丝毫迹象表明，甚至第一次听证会很快就会举行。于是我就去找律师投诉了。他向我详细解释了这一切，但拒绝做我要求的任何事情，没有人对审判的进行方式有任何影响，他说，尝试并在像我要求的那样提交的任何文件中坚持这一点这是闻所未闻的，而且会对他和我都造成伤害。我心想：这个律师不能做或不会做的事，另一个律师会做。于是我四处寻找其他律师。 在你说什么之前：他们都没有要求确定主要审判的具体日期，也没有人得到一个确定的日期，无论如何，除了我将在一分钟内讨论的一个例外之外，这确实是不可能的，这是一回事这位律师没有误导我；但除此之外，我没有理由后悔求助于其他律师。也许你已经听过胡尔德博士如何谈论那些小律师，他可能让你觉得他们非常可鄙，他是对的，他们是可鄙的。但是，当他谈论它们并将它们与他自己和同事进行比较时，他所说的有一个小错误，为了您的兴趣，我将告诉您这一点。当他谈到与他交往的律师时，他称他们为“伟大的律师”，从而将他们区分开来。这是错误的，当然，如果他愿意，任何人都可以称自己为“伟大”，但在这种情况下，只有法院的使用才能做出这种区分。你看，法院说，除了小律师之外，还有小律师和大律师。这位和他的同事都只是小律师，和我只听说过、没见过的大律师之间的等级差距，比小律师和被人鄙视的小律师之间的等级差距要大得多。” “伟大的律师？” K问道。“那他们是谁？你怎么联系他们？” “那么你从来没有听说过他们？”商人说道。 “几乎所有被指控的人在听说过这些伟大的律师后，都会花很多时间去想象他们。最好不要让自己被这种方式误导。我不知道谁是伟大的律师，而且可能没有办法联系他们。我不知道有哪些案例是我可以肯定地谈论他们参与的。 他们确实保护了很多人，但是你靠自己的努力是抓不到他们的，他们只保护那些他们想保护的人。我认为他们不会受理尚未通过下级法院审理的案件。不管怎样，最好不要去想它们，就好像你这样做了，会让与其他律师的讨论、他们所有的建议以及他们所做的一切都变得如此令人不愉快和无用，我自己也有过这样的经历，只是想把所有东西都扔掉，躺在家里的床上，再也听不到任何关于这件事的消息了。但这当然是你能做的最愚蠢的事情，而且你也不会在床上安静太久。” “所以你当时没有想到那些伟大的律师？” “不会太久，”商人说，又笑了，“恐怕你不可能完全忘记它们，尤其是在晚上，这些想法很容易出现。但当时我想要立竿见影的结果，所以我去找了小律师。”

“Well look at you two sat huddled together!” called Leni as she came back with the dish and stood in the doorway. They were indeed sat close together, if either of them turned his head even slightly it would have knocked against the other’s, the businessman was not only very small but also sat hunched down, so that K. was also forced to bend down low if he wanted to hear everything. “Not quite yet!” called out K., to turn Leni away, his hand, still resting on the businessman’s hand, twitching with impatience. “He wanted me to tell him about my trial,” said the businessman to Leni. “Carry on, then, carry on,” she said. She spoke to the businessman with affection but, at the same time, with condescension. K. did not like that, he had begun to learn that the man was of some value after all, he had experience at least, and he was willing to share it. Leni was probably wrong about him. He watched her in irritation as Leni now took the candle from the businessman’s hand which he had been holding on to all this time wiped his hand with her apron and then knelt beside him to scratch off some wax that had dripped from the candle onto his trousers. “You were about to tell me about the petty lawyers,” said K., shoving Leni’s hand away with no further comment. “What’s wrong with you today?” asked Leni, tapped him gently and carried on with what she had been doing. “Yes, the petty lawyers,” said the businessman, putting his hand to his brow as if thinking hard. K. wanted to help him and said, “You wanted immediate results and so went to the petty lawyers.” “Yes, that’s right,” said the businessman, but did not continue with what he’d been saying. “Maybe he doesn’t want to speak about it in front of Leni,” thought K., suppressing his impatience to hear the rest straight away, and stopped trying to press him.
“瞧瞧你们两个挤在一起！”当莱妮端着菜回来站在门口时，她喊道。他们确实坐得很近，只要稍一转头，就会撞到对方的头，那商人不仅个子很小，而且还弓着背坐着，让K.也被迫低下身子。想听听一切。 “还没到呢！” K大声叫道，要把莱妮推开，他的手仍然放在商人的手上，不耐烦地抽搐着。 “他想让我告诉他我的审判情况，”商人对莱妮说。 “那么，继续，继续，”她说。她对这位商人充满感情，但同时又带着居高临下的态度。 K.不喜欢这样，他开始了解到这个人毕竟还是有一定价值的，至少他有经验，而且他愿意分享。莱妮可能对他的看法是错误的。他恼怒地看着她，莱妮从商人手里接过蜡烛，而商人一直握着他的手，用围裙擦了擦他的手，然后跪在他身边，刮掉从蜡烛上滴到他裤子上的蜡。 。 “你正要告诉我那些小律师的事，”K.说着，推开了莱妮的手，没有再发表任何评论。 “你今天怎么了？”莱妮问道，轻轻拍了拍他，然后继续做她一直在做的事情。 “是的，小律师们，”商人说，把手放在额头上，好像在认真思考。 K.想帮助他，说：“你想要立竿见影的结果，所以去找了小律师。” “是的，没错。”商人说道，但没有继续说下去。 “也许他不想在莱妮面前谈论这件事，”K想。，强压住自己想马上听完剩下的话的不耐烦，不再试图逼迫他。

“Have you told him I’m here?” he asked Leni. “Course I have,” she said, “he’s waiting for you. Leave Block alone now, you can talk to Block later, he’ll still be here.” K. still hesitated. “You’ll still be here?” he asked the businessman, wanting to hear the answer from him and not wanting Leni to speak about the businessman as if he weren’t there, he was full of secret resentment towards Leni today. And once more it was only Leni who answered. “He often sleeps here.” “He sleeps here?” exclaimed K., he had thought the businessman would just wait there for him while he quickly settled his business with the lawyer, and then they would leave together to discuss everything thoroughly and undisturbed. “Yes,” said Leni, “not everyone’s like you, Josef, allowed to see the lawyer at any time you like. Do don’t even seem surprised that the lawyer, despite being ill, still receives you at eleven o’clock at night. You take it far too much for granted, what your friends do for you. Well, your friends, or at least I do, we like to do things for you. I don’t want or need any more thanks than that you’re fond of me.” “Fond of you?” thought K. at first, and only then it occurred to him, “Well, yes, I am fond of her.” Nonetheless, what he said, forgetting all the rest, was, “He receives me because I am his client. If I needed anyone else’s help I’d have to beg and show gratitude whenever I do anything.” “He’s really nasty today, isn’t he?” Leni asked the businessman. “Now it’s me who’s not here,” thought K., and nearly lost his temper with the businessman when, with the same rudeness as Leni, he said, “The lawyer also has other reasons to receive him. His case is much more interesting than mine. And it’s only in its early stages too, it probably hasn’t progressed very far so the lawyer still likes to deal with him. That’ll all change later on.” “Yeah, yeah,” said Leni, looking at the businessman and laughing. “He doesn’t half talk!” she said, turning to face K. “You can’t believe a word he says. He’s as talkative as he is sweet. Maybe that’s why the lawyer can’t stand him. At least, he only sees him when he’s in the right mood. I’ve already tried hard to change that but it’s impossible. Just think, there are times when I tell him Block’s here and he doesn’t receive him until three days later. And if Block isn’t on the spot when he’s called then everything’s lost and it all has to start all over again. That’s why I let Block sleep here, it wouldn’t be the first time Dr. Huld has wanted to see him in the night. So now Block is ready for that. Sometimes, when he knows Block is still here, he’ll even change his mind about letting him in to see him.” K. looked questioningly at the businessman. The latter nodded and, although he had spoken quite openly with K. earlier, seemed to be confused with shame as he said, “Yes, later on you become very dependent on your lawyer.” “He’s only pretending to mind,” said Leni. “He likes to sleep here really, he’s often said so.” She went over to a little door and shoved it open. “Do you want to see his bedroom?” she asked. K. went over to the low, windowless room and looked in from the doorway. The room contained a narrow bed which filled it completely, so that to get into the bed you would need to climb over the bedpost. At the head of the bed there was a niche in the wall where, fastidiously tidy, stood a candle, a bottle of ink, and a pen with a bundle of papers which were probably to do with the trial. “You sleep in the maid’s room?” asked K., as he went back to the businessman. “Leni’s let me have it,” answered the businessman, “it has many advantages.” K. looked long at him; his first impression of the businessman had perhaps not been right; he had experience as his trial had already lasted a long time, but he had paid a heavy price for this experience. K. was suddenly unable to bear the sight of the businessman any longer. “Bring him to bed, then!” he called out to Leni, who seemed to understand him. For himself, he wanted to go to the lawyer and, by dismissing him, free himself from not only the lawyer but also from Leni and the businessman. But before he had reached the door the businessman spoke to him gently. “Excuse me, sir,” he said, and K. looked round crossly. “You’ve forgotten your promise,” said the businessman, stretching his hand out to K. imploringly from where he sat. “You were going to tell me a secret.” “That is true,” said K., as he glanced at Leni, who was watching him carefully, to check on her. “So listen; it’s hardly a secret now anyway. I’m going to see the lawyer now to sack him.” “He’s sacking him!” yelled the businessman, and he jumped up from his chair and ran around the kitchen with his arms in the air. He kept on shouting, “He’s sacking his lawyer!” Leni tried to rush at K. but the businessman got in her way so that she shoved him away with her fists. Then, still with her hands balled into fists, she ran after K. who, however, had been given a long start. He was already inside the lawyer’s room by the time Leni caught up with him. He had almost closed the door behind himself, but Leni held the door open with her foot, grabbed his arm and tried to pull him back. But he put such pressure on her wrist that, with a sigh, she was forced to release him. She did not dare go into the room straight away, and K. locked the door with the key.
“你告诉他我在这里了吗？”他问莱妮。 “当然有，”她说，“他在等你。现在别打扰布洛克，你稍后再跟布洛克说话，他还会在这里。” K.仍然犹豫着。 “你还会在这里吗？”他向商人问道，想要听到他的答案，又不想让莱妮像他不在场一样谈论商人，他今天对莱妮充满了暗暗的怨恨。再次只有莱妮回答。 “他经常睡在这里。” “他睡在这里？” “K.”惊呼道，他以为商人会在那里等他，而他很快和律师处理完事情，然后他们就一起离开，不受打扰地彻底讨论一切。 “是的，”莱妮说，“不是每个人都像你一样，约瑟夫，可以随时见律师。即使律师尽管生病了，仍然在晚上十一点接待您，也不要感到惊讶。你把朋友为你所做的一切视为理所当然。好吧，你的朋友们，或者至少我喜欢，我们喜欢为你做事。除了你喜欢我之外，我不想也不需要更多的感谢。” “喜欢你？” K. 起初这么想，直到那时他才想到，“嗯，是的，我喜欢她。”尽管如此，他忘记了其他一切，说的是：“他接待我是因为我是他的客户。如果我需要别人的帮助，无论何时我做任何事，我都必须乞求并表达感激之情。” “他今天真是太糟糕了，不是吗？”莱妮问商人。 “现在我不在这里了，”K想道，当他像莱妮一样粗鲁地说，“律师还有其他理由接待他时，他几乎对商人发脾气了。他的案例比我的有趣得多。 而且也只是处于早期阶段，可能还没有取得多大进展，所以律师还是喜欢和他打交道。以后这一切都会改变。” “是啊，是啊，”莱妮看着商人笑道。 “他不说话！” “她说，转身面对K。“你不能相信他说的每一个字。他很健谈，也很可爱。也许这就是律师无法忍受他的原因。至少，他只有在心情好的时候才能见到他。我已经很努力地想改变这一点，但这是不可能的。想想看，有时候我告诉他布洛克在这里，他直到三天后才接待他。如果布洛克接到电话时不在场，那么一切就都失败了，一切都必须重新开始。这就是为什么我让布洛克睡在这里，这不是赫尔德博士第一次想在晚上见到他。所以现在 Block 已经准备好了。有时，当他知道布洛克还在这里时，他甚至会改变主意，不让他进来见他。” K. 疑惑地看着商人。后者点点头，尽管他之前已经很公开地与 K. 交谈过，但当他说时，他似乎感到羞愧，“是的，后来你变得非常依赖你的律师。” “他只是假装介意，”莱妮说。 “他真的很喜欢睡在这里，他经常这么说。”她走到一扇小门前，把它推开。 “你想看看他的卧室吗？”她问。 K.走到那间低矮、没有窗户的房间，从门口往里看。房间里有一张狭窄的床，完全填满了它，所以要爬上床，你需要爬过床柱。床头的墙上有一个壁龛，壁龛里整齐地放着一支蜡烛、一瓶墨水和一支钢笔，里面放着一捆可能与审判有关的文件。 “你睡在女仆房里吗？” K. 回到商人身边问道。 “莱尼让我拥有了它，”商人回答道，“它有很多优点。” K.久久地看着他。他对这位商人的第一印象也许并不正确。他有经验，因为试炼已经持续了很长一段时间，但他也为此付出了惨重的代价。 K.突然再也无法忍受商人的目光了。 “那就把他抱到床上去吧！”他向莱妮喊道，莱妮似乎明白了他的意思。对于他自己来说，他想去找律师，并通过解雇他，使自己不仅摆脱律师，而且摆脱莱妮和商人。但在他走到门口之前，商人温柔地对他说话。 “对不起，先生，”他说，K. 生气地环顾四周。 “你忘记了你的承诺，”商人说道，从座位上向 K 伸出了手，恳求道。 “你本来打算告诉我一个秘密的。” “确实如此，”K.一边说，一边看了一眼正在仔细观察他的莱妮，想确认一下她的情况。 “所以听着；无论如何，现在这已经不是什么秘密了。我现在要去见律师并解雇他。” “他要解雇他了！”商人喊道，他从椅子上跳起来，高举双臂在厨房里跑来跑去。他继续喊道：“他要解雇他的律师！”莱妮试图冲向K，但商人挡住了她的路，她用拳头把他推开了。然后，她仍然双手握成拳头，追赶着K.，然而K.却已经远远领先了。当莱妮追上他时，他已经在律师的房间里了。他几乎要关上身后的门，但莱妮用脚把门打开，抓住他的手臂，试图把他拉回来。 但他对她手腕施加的压力太大了，她叹了口气，被迫松开了他。她不敢立即进房间，K.用钥匙把门锁上了。

“I’ve been waiting for you a very long time,” said the lawyer from his bed. He had been reading something by the light of a candle but now he laid it onto the bedside table and put his glasses on, looking at K. sharply through them. Instead of apologising K. said, “I’ll be leaving again soon.” As he had not apologised the lawyer ignored what K. said, and replied, “I won’t let you in this late again next time.” “I find that quite acceptable,” said K. The lawyer looked at him quizzically. “Sit down,” he said. “As you wish,” said K., drawing a chair up to the bedside table and sitting down. “It seemed to me that you locked the door,” said the lawyer. “Yes,” said K., “it was because of Leni.” He had no intention of letting anyone off lightly. But the lawyer asked him, “Was she being importunate again?” “Importunate?” asked K. “Yes,” said the lawyer, laughing as he did so, had a fit of coughing and then, once it had passed, began to laugh again. “I’m sure you must have noticed how importunate she can be sometimes,” he said, and patted K.’s hand which K. had rested on the bedside table and which he now snatched back. “You don’t attach much importance to it, then,” said the lawyer when K. was silent, “so much the better. Otherwise I might have needed to apologise to you. It is a peculiarity of Leni’s. I’ve long since forgiven her for it, and I wouldn’t be talking of it now, if you hadn’t locked the door just now. Anyway, perhaps I should at least explain this peculiarity of hers to you, but you seem rather disturbed, the way you’re looking at me, and so that’s why I’ll do it, this peculiarity of hers consists in this; Leni finds most of the accused attractive. She attaches herself to each of them, loves each of them, even seems to be loved by each of them; then she sometimes entertains me by telling me about them when I allow her to. I am not so astonished by all of this as you seem to be. If you look at them in the right way the accused really can be attractive, quite often. But that is a remarkable and to some extent scientific phenomenon. Being indicted does not cause any clear, precisely definable change in a person’s appearance, of course. But it’s not like with other legal matters, most of them remain in their usual way of life and, if they have a good lawyer looking after them, the trial doesn’t get in their way. But there are nonetheless those who have experience in these matters who can look at a crowd, however big, and tell you which among them is facing a charge. How can they do that, you will ask. My answer will not please you. It is simply that those who are facing a charge are the most attractive. It cannot be their guilt that makes them attractive as not all of them are guilty at least that’s what I, as a lawyer, have to say and nor can it be the proper punishment that has made them attractive as not all of them are punished, so it can only be that the proceedings levelled against them take some kind of hold on them. Whatever the reason, some of these attractive people are indeed very attractive. But all of them are attractive, even Block, pitiful worm that he is.” As the lawyer finished what he was saying, K. was fully in control of himself, he had even nodded conspicuously at his last few words in order to confirm to himself the view he had already formed; that the lawyer was trying to confuse him, as he always did, by making general and irrelevant observations, and thus distract him from the main question of what he was actually doing for K.’s trial. The lawyer must have noticed that K. was offering him more resistance than before, as he became silent, giving K. the chance to speak himself, and then, as K. also remained silent, he asked, “Did you have a particular reason for coming to see me today?” “Yes,” said K., putting his hand up to slightly shade his eyes from the light of the candle so that he could see the lawyer better, “I wanted to tell you that I’m withdrawing my representation from you, with immediate effect.” “Do I understand you rightly?” asked the lawyer as he half raised himself in his bed and supported himself with one hand on the pillow. “I think you do,” said K., sitting stiffly upright as if waiting in ambush. “Well we can certainly discuss this plan of yours,” said the lawyer after a pause. “It’s not a plan any more,” said K. “That may be,” said the lawyer, “but we still mustn’t rush anything.” He used the word ‘we’, as if he had no intention of letting K. go free, and as if, even if he could no longer represent him, he could still at least continue as his adviser. “Nothing is being rushed,” said K., standing slowly up and going behind his chair, “everything has been well thought out and probably even for too long. The decision is final.” “Then allow me to say a few words,” said the lawyer, throwing the bed cover to one side and sitting on the edge of the bed. His naked, whitehaired legs shivered in the cold. He asked K. to pass him a blanket from the couch. K. passed him the blanket and said, “You are running the risk of catching cold for no reason.” “The circumstances are important enough,” said the lawyer as he wrapped the bed cover around the top half of his body and then the blanket around his legs. “Your uncle is my friend and in the course of time I’ve become fond of you as well. I admit that quite openly. There’s nothing in that for me to be ashamed of.” It was very unwelcome for K. to hear the old man speak in this touching way, as it forced him to explain himself more fully, which he would rather have avoided, and he was aware that it also confused him even though it could never make him reverse his decision. “Thank you for feeling so friendly toward me,” he said, “and I also realise how deeply involved you’ve been in my case, as deeply as possible for yourself and to bring as much advantage as possible to me. Nonetheless, I have recently come to the conviction that it is not enough. I would naturally never attempt, considering that you are so much older and more experienced than I am, to convince you of my opinion; if I have ever unintentionally done so then I beg your forgiveness, but, as you have just said yourself, the circumstances are important enough and it is my belief that my trial needs to be approached with much more vigour than has so far been the case.” “I see,” said the lawyer, “you’ve become impatient.” “I am not impatient,” said K., with some irritation and he stopped paying so much attention to his choice of words. “When I first came here with my uncle you probably noticed I wasn’t greatly concerned about my case, and if I wasn’t reminded of it by force, as it were, I would forget about it completely. But my uncle insisted I should allow you to represent me and I did so as a favour to him. I could have expected the case to be less of a burden than it had been, as the point of taking on a lawyer is that he should take on some of its weight. But what actually happened was the opposite. Before, the trial was never such a worry for me as it has been since you’ve been representing me. When I was by myself I never did anything about my case, I was hardly aware of it, but then, once there was someone representing me, everything was set for something to happen, I was always, without cease, waiting for you to do something, getting more and more tense, but you did nothing. I did get some information about the court from you that I probably could not have got anywhere else, but that can’t be enough when the trial, supposedly in secret, is getting closer and closer to me.” K. had pushed the chair away and stood erect, his hands in the pockets of his frock coat. “After a certain point in the proceedings,” said the lawyer quietly and calmly, “nothing new of any importance ever happens. So many litigants, at the same stage in their trials, have stood before me just like you are now and spoken in the same way.” “Then these other litigants,” said K., “have all been right, just as I am. That does not show that I’m not.” “I wasn’t trying to show that you were mistaken,” said the lawyer, “but I wanted to add that I expected better judgement from you than from the others, especially as I’ve given you more insight into the workings of the court and my own activities than I normally do. And now I’m forced to accept that, despite everything, you have too little trust in me. You don’t make it easy for me.” How the lawyer was humiliating himself to K.! He was showing no regard for the dignity of his position, which on this point, must have been at its most sensitive. And why did he do that? He did seem to be very busy as a lawyer as well a rich man, neither the loss of income nor the loss of a client could have been of much importance to him in themselves. He was moreover unwell and should have been thinking of passing work on to others. And despite all that he held on tightly to K. Why? Was it something personal for his uncle’s sake, or did he really see K.’s case as one that was exceptional and hoped to be able to distinguish himself with it, either for K.’s sake or and this possibility could never be excluded for his friends at the court? It was not possible to learn anything by looking at him, even though K. was scrutinizing him quite brazenly. It could almost be supposed he was deliberately hiding his thoughts as he waited to see what effect his words would have. But he clearly deemed K.’s silence to be favourable for himself and he continued, “You will have noticed the size of my office, but that I don’t employ any staff to help me. That used to be quite different, there was a time when several young lawyers were working for me but now I work alone. This is partly to do with changes in the way I do business, in that I concentrate nowadays more and more on matters such as your own case, and partly to do with the ever deeper understanding that I acquire from these legal matters. I found that I could never let anyone else deal with this sort of work unless I wanted to harm both the client and the job I had taken on. But the decision to do all the work myself had its obvious result: I was forced to turn almost everyone away who asked me to represent them and could only accept those I was especially interested in well there are enough creatures who leap at every crumb I throw down, and they’re not so very far away. Most importantly, I became ill from over-work. But despite that I don’t regret my decision, quite possibly I should have turned more cases away than I did, but it did turn out to be entirely necessary for me to devote myself fully to the cases I did take on, and the successful results showed that it was worth it. I once read a description of the difference between representing someone in ordinary legal matters and in legal matters of this sort, and the writer expressed it very well. This is what he said: some lawyers lead their clients on a thread until judgement is passed, but there are others who immediately lift their clients onto their shoulders and carry them all the way to the judgement and beyond. That’s just how it is. But it was quite true when I said I never regret all this work. But if, as in your case, they are so fully misunderstood, well, then I come very close to regretting it.” All this talking did more to make K. impatient than to persuade him. From the way the lawyer was speaking, K. thought he could hear what he could expect if he gave in, the delays and excuses would begin again, reports of how the documents were progressing, how the mood of the court officials had improved, as well as all the enormous difficulties in short all that he had heard so many times before would be brought out again even more fully, he would try to mislead K. with hopes that were never specified and to make him suffer with threats that were never clear. He had to put a stop to that, so he said, “What will you undertake on my behalf if you continue to represent me?” The lawyer quietly accepted even this insulting question, and answered, “I should continue with what I’ve already been doing for you.” “That’s just what I thought,” said K., “and now you don’t need to say another word.” “I will make one more attempt,” said the lawyer as if whatever had been making K. so annoyed was affecting him too. “You see, I have the impression that you have not only misjudged the legal assistance I have given you but also that that misjudgement has led you to behave in this way, you seem, although you are the accused, to have been treated too well or, to put it a better way, handled with neglect, with apparent neglect. Even that has its reason; it is often better to be in chains than to be free. But I would like to show you how other defendants are treated, perhaps you will succeed in learning something from it. What I will do is I will call Block in, unlock the door and sit down here beside the bedside table.” “Be glad to,” said K., and did as the lawyer suggested; he was always ready to learn something new. But to make sure of himself for any event he added, “but you do realise that you are no longer to be my lawyer, don’t you?” “Yes,” said the lawyer. “But you can still change your mind today if you want to.” He lay back down in the bed, pulled the quilt up to his chin and turned to face the wall. Then he rang.
“我已经等你很久了，”律师在床上说道。他本来正在烛光下看书，现在他把书放在床头柜上，戴上眼镜，透过眼镜锐利地看着K。 K. 没有道歉，而是说：“我很快就会再次离开。”由于他没有道歉，律师没有理睬K.的话，而是回答道：“下次我不会再这么晚了让你进来了。” “我觉得这是可以接受的，”K说。律师疑惑地看着他。 “坐下，”他说。 “如你所愿，”K.说着，拉过一把椅子到床头柜边坐下。 “在我看来，你把门锁上了，”律师说。 “是的，”K说，“这是因为莱妮。”他并没有轻易放过任何人的意思。但律师却问他：“她是不是又纠缠不休了？” “很重要吗？” K问道。“是的，”律师边说边笑，咳嗽了一阵，咳嗽过后，又开始笑了。 “我相信你一定已经注意到她有时是多么的纠缠不休，”他说，拍了拍K.放在床头柜上的手，现在K.又把手收回了。 “那么，”见K. 沉默不语，律师说道，“那更好了。否则我可能需要向你道歉。这是莱妮的一个特点。我早就原谅她了，如果你刚才没有锁门，我现在也不会谈论这件事。不管怎样，也许我至少应该向你解释一下她的这个特殊之处，但是你看我的方式看起来很不安，所以我才会这样做，她的这个特殊之处就在于；莱妮发现大多数被告都很有吸引力。 她依恋他们每一个人，爱他们每一个人，甚至似乎被他们每一个人所爱；然后，当我允许时，她有时会告诉我这些事情，以此来娱乐我。我并不像你看起来那样对这一切感到惊讶。如果你以正确的方式看待他们，被告往往确实很有吸引力。但这是一个值得注意的现象，并且在某种程度上是科学的现象。当然，被起诉不会导致一个人的外表发生任何明显的、可精确定义的变化。但这与其他法律事务不同，他们中的大多数人都保持着平常的生活方式，如果他们有一个好的律师照顾他们，审判就不会妨碍他们。但仍然有一些在这些问题上有经验的人，他们可以观察人群，无论人数有多大，并告诉你其中哪些人面临指控。你会问，他们怎么能做到这一点。我的回答不会让你满意。很简单，那些面临指控的人是最有吸引力的。不可能是他们的罪行使他们有吸引力，因为并非所有人都有罪，至少我作为一名律师必须这么说，也不可能是适当的惩罚使他们有吸引力，因为并非所有人都受到惩罚，因此，针对他们的诉讼只能对他们产生某种影响。不管出于什么原因，这些有吸引力的人中的一些人确实非常有吸引力。但他们个个都很有吸引力，就连布洛克这个可怜的虫子也不例外。”律师说完后，K. 他完全控制住了自己，甚至在最后几句话中还明显地点了点头，以确认自己已经形成的观点。律师像往常一样，试图通过提出笼统的、无关紧要的意见来迷惑他，从而分散他对主要问题的注意力，即他实际上在为 K. 的审判做什么。律师肯定注意到K.比以前更加抗拒，他变得沉默，给K.自己说话的机会，然后，K.也保持沉默，他问道：“你有什么特殊原因吗？”今天来看我吗？” “是的，”K. 说，他举起手稍微遮挡一下蜡烛的光，这样他就能更清楚地看到律师，“我想告诉你，我将立即撤回我对你的代理。”影响。” “我对你的理解正确吗？”律师在床上半直起身，一只手放在枕头上，问道。 “我想你是这样的，”K说，他笔直地坐着，好像在埋伏。 “好吧，我们当然可以讨论你的这个计划，”律师停顿了一下说道。 “这不再是一个计划了，”K说。“也许是这样，”律师说，“但我们仍然不能操之过急。”他用了“我们”这个词，就好像他无意让K.自由，好像即使他不能再代表他，他至少仍然可以继续担任他的顾问。 “没有什么是仓促的，”K. 慢慢地站起来走到椅子后面，“一切都经过深思熟虑，甚至可能太久了。该决定是最终决定。” “那就让我说几句话吧。”律师一边说着，一边把床罩掀到一边，坐到了床边。他赤裸的白发双腿在寒冷中瑟瑟发抖。他问K。 从沙发上递给他一条毯子。 K.把毯子递给他，说道：“你无缘无故地面临着感冒的危险。” “情况已经足够重要了，”律师一边说，一边用床罩盖住他的上半身，然后用毯子盖住他的腿。 “你叔叔是我的朋友，随着时间的推移，我也开始喜欢你了。我非常公开地承认这一点。我没有什么可感到羞耻的。” K. 听到老人以这种感人的方式说话是非常不受欢迎的，因为这迫使他更充分地解释自己，而他宁愿避免这样做，而且他知道这也让他感到困惑，尽管这永远无法使他感到困惑。他改变了他的决定。 “谢谢你对我如此友好，”他说，“我也意识到你对我的案子的参与程度有多深，尽可能深入地为自己服务，并为我带来尽可能多的好处。尽管如此，我最近确信这还不够。考虑到你比我年长得多、经验丰富，我自然不会试图让你相信我的观点。如果我无意中这样做了，那么我恳求您的原谅，但是，正如您刚才所说，情况已经足够重要了，我相信我的审判需要比迄今为止的情况更加积极地进行”。 “我明白了，”律师说，“你变得不耐烦了。” “我并不不耐烦，”K. 有点恼怒地说，他不再那么注意自己的措辞。 “当我第一次和叔叔来到这里时，你可能注意到我并不太关心我的案子，如果不是强迫我想起这件事，可以说，我会完全忘记它。 但我叔叔坚持我应该让你代表我，我这样做是为了帮他一个忙。我本来可以预期这个案子的负担会比以前减轻，因为聘请律师的目的是他应该承担一些责任。但实际发生的情况却恰恰相反。自从您代表我以来，审判对我来说从未如此令人担忧。当我一个人的时候，我从来没有对我的案子做过任何事情，我几乎没有意识到这一点，但是一旦有人代表我，一切就都注定要发生，我总是不停地等着你做事情变得越来越紧张，但你却什么也没做。我确实从你那里得到了一些关于法庭的信息，这些信息可能是我在其他地方无法得到的，但当秘密审判离我越来越近时，这还不够。” K.把椅子推开，站直了身子，双手插在礼服的口袋里。 “诉讼程序进行到一定程度后，”律师平静而平静地说，“没有发生任何重要的新事情。这么多诉讼当事人，在审判的同一阶段，都像你现在一样站在我面前，用同样的方式说话。” “那么，其他诉讼当事人，”K. 说，“都是对的，就像我一样。这并不表明我不是。” “我并不是想证明你错了，”律师说，“但我想补充一点，我期望你能比其他人做出更好的判断，特别是因为我已经让你更深入地了解了该机构的运作方式。法庭和我自己的活动比我平时做的要多。现在我不得不承认，尽管如此，你对我还是太不信任了。你让我过得并不轻松。”律师在K面前是多么羞辱自己啊！ 他没有表现出对自己地位尊严的尊重，而在这一点上，他的地位一定是最敏感的。他为什么这么做？作为一名律师和一个富人，他似乎确实很忙碌，收入的损失和客户的损失本身对他来说都不重要。而且他身体也不好，应该考虑把工作转给别人。尽管如此，他还是紧紧抓住K。为什么呢？是为了他叔叔的个人利益，还是他真的认为K.的案件是一个特殊的案件，并希望能够通过它脱颖而出，无论是为了K.还是永远不能排除这种可能性为了他在法庭上的朋友？尽管K非常厚颜无耻地打量着他，但通过看他是不可能学到任何东西的。几乎可以认为，他是在刻意隐藏自己的想法，等待着看看自己的话会产生什么效果。但他显然认为K.的沉默对自己有利，他继续说道，“你会注意到我办公室的大小，但我没有雇用任何员工来帮助我。过去情况很不一样，曾经有几位年轻律师为我工作，但现在我一个人工作。这部分是因为我做生意的方式发生了变化，因为我现在越来越关注像你自己的案件这样的事情，部分是因为我从这些法律事务中获得了越来越深刻的理解。我发现我永远不能让其他人处理这种工作，除非我想同时伤害客户和我所承担的工作。 但我自己做所有工作的决定有一个明显的结果：我被迫拒绝了几乎所有要求我代表他们的人，只能接受那些我特别感兴趣的人，而且有足够多的生物会扑向我扔的每一个面包屑下来了，而且距离也不是很远。最重要的是，我因过度劳累而生病了。但尽管如此，我并不后悔我的决定，很可能我应该比我拒绝的案件更多，但事实证明，我完全有必要全身心投入到我所接手的案件中，并且成功了。结果表明这是值得的。我曾经读过一篇关于在普通法律事务中代表某人与在此类法律事务中代表某人之间的区别的描述，作者表达得很好。他是这样说的：有些律师带领客户一直到判决通过，但也有一些律师立即将客户扛在肩上，一路扛到判决及之后。就是这样。但当我说我从不后悔所有这些工作时，这是千真万确的。但如果像你的情况一样，他们被如此完全地误解了，那么我就非常后悔了。”所有这些谈话更多的是让 K. 不耐烦，而不是说服他。从律师说话的方式中，K.认为他能听到如果他屈服的话会发生什么，拖延和借口会再次开始，有关文件进展情况的报告，法院官员的情绪如何改善，以及所有他以前听过很多次的巨大困难都会被更充分地再次展现出来，他会试图用从未具体说明的希望来误导K，并用从未明确的威胁来让他受苦。 他不得不制止，所以他说：“如果你继续代表我，你会为我做什么？”律师甚至平静地接受了这个侮辱性的问题，并回答说：“我应该继续我已经为你做的事情。” “我就是这么想的，”K 说，“现在你不需要再说什么了。” “我会再尝试一次，”律师说道，仿佛让 K. 如此恼火的事情也影响了他。 “你看，我的印象是，你不仅误判了我给你提供的法律援助，而且正是这种误判导致你做出这样的行为，虽然你是被告，但你似乎受到了太好的对待。”或者，换个更好的方式来说，处理时被忽视了，明显被忽视了。即便如此，也是有其道理的。被束缚往往比自由更好。但我想向您展示其他被告是如何对待的，也许您会从中学到一些东西。我要做的就是叫布洛克进来，打开门，然后坐在床头柜旁边。” “很乐意这么做，”K. 说道，并按照律师的建议做了。他总是准备好学习新东西。但为了确保自己应对任何事件，他补充道，“但你确实意识到你不再是我的律师，不是吗？” “是的，”律师说。 “但如果你愿意的话，今天你仍然可以改变主意。”他又躺回床上，把被子拉到下巴处，转身面向墙壁。然后他就响了。

Leni appeared almost the moment he had done so. She looked hurriedly at K. and the lawyer to try and find out what had happened; she seemed to be reassured by the sight of K. sitting calmly at the lawyer’s bed. She smiled and nodded to K., K. looked blankly back at her. “Fetch Block,” said the lawyer. But instead of going to fetch him, Leni just went to the door and called out, “Block! To the lawyer!” Then, probably because the lawyer had turned his face to the wall and was paying no attention, she slipped in behind K.’s chair. From then on, she bothered him by leaning forward over the back of the chair or, albeit very tenderly and carefully, she would run her hands through his hair and over his cheeks. K. eventually tried to stop her by taking hold of one hand, and after some resistance Leni let him keep hold of it. Block came as soon as he was called, but he remained standing in the doorway and seemed to be wondering whether he should enter or not. He raised his eyebrows and lowered his head as if listening to find out whether the order to attend the lawyer would be repeated. K. could have encouraged to enter, but he had decided to make a final break not only with the lawyer but with everything in his home, so he kept himself motionless. Leni was also silent. Block noticed that at least no-one was chasing him away, and, on tiptoe, he entered the room, his face was tense, his hands were clenched behind his back. He left the door open in case he needed to go back again. K. did not even glance at him, he looked instead only at the thick quilt under which the lawyer could not be seen as he had squeezed up very close to the wall. Then his voice was heard: “Block here?” he asked. Block had already crept some way into the room but this question seemed to give him first a shove in the breast and then another in the back, he seemed about to fall but remained standing, deeply bowed, and said, “At your service, sir.” “What do you want?” asked the lawyer, “you’ve come at a bad time.” “Wasn’t I summoned?” asked Block, more to himself than the lawyer. He held his hands in front of himself as protection and would have been ready to run away any moment. “You were summoned,” said the lawyer, “but you have still come at a bad time.” Then, after a pause he added, “You always come at a bad time.” When the lawyer started speaking Block had stopped looking at the bed but stared rather into one of the corners, just listening, as if the light from the speaker were brighter than Block could bear to look at. But it was also difficult for him to listen, as the lawyer was speaking into the wall and speaking quickly and quietly. “Would you like me to go away again, sir?” asked Block. “Well you’re here now,” said the lawyer. “Stay!” It was as if the lawyer had not done as Block had wanted but instead threatened him with a stick, as now Block really began to shake. “I went to see,” said the lawyer, “the third judge yesterday, a friend of mine, and slowly brought the conversation round to the subject of you. Do you want to know what he said?” “Oh, yes please,” said Block. The lawyer did not answer immediately, so Block repeated his request and lowered his head as if about to kneel down. But then K. spoke to him: “What do you think you’re doing?” he shouted. Leni had wanted to stop him from calling out and so he took hold of her other hand. It was not love that made him squeeze it and hold on to it so tightly, she sighed frequently and tried to disengage her hands from him. But Block was punished for K.’s outburst, as the lawyer asked him, “Who is your lawyer?” “You are, sir,” said Block. “And who besides me?” the lawyer asked. “No-one besides you, sir,” said Block. “And let there be no-one besides me,” said the lawyer. Block fully understood what that meant, he glowered at K., shaking his head violently. If these actions had been translated into words they would have been coarse insults. K. had been friendly and willing to discuss his own case with someone like this! “I won’t disturb you any more,” said K., leaning back in his chair. “You can kneel down or creep on all fours, whatever you like. I won’t bother with you any more.” But Block still had some sense of pride, at least where K. was concerned, and he went towards him waving his fists, shouting as loudly as he dared while the lawyer was there. “You shouldn’t speak to me like that, that’s not allowed. Why are you insulting me? Especially here in front of the lawyer, where both of us, you and me, we’re only tolerated because of his charity. You not a better person than me, you’ve been accused of something too, you’re facing a charge too. If, in spite of that, you’re still a gentleman then I’m just as much a gentleman as you are, if not even more so. And I want to be spoken to as a gentleman, especially by you. If you think being allowed to sit there and quietly listen while I creep on all fours as you put it makes you something better than me, then there’s an old legal saying you ought to bear in mind: If you’re under suspicion it better to be moving than still, as if you’re still you can be in the pan of the scales without knowing it and be weighed along with your sins.” K. said nothing. He merely looked in amazement at this distracted being, his eyes completely still. He had gone through such changes in just the last few hours! Was it the trial that was throwing him from side to side in this way and stopped him knowing who was friend and who was foe? Could he not see the lawyer was deliberately humiliating him and had no other purpose today than to show off his power to K., and perhaps even thereby subjugate K.? But if Block was incapable of seeing that, or if he so feared the lawyer that no such insight would even be of any use to him, how was it that he was either so sly or so bold as to lie to the lawyer and conceal from him the fact that he had other lawyers working on his behalf? And how did he dare to attack K., who could betray his secret any time he liked? But he dared even more than this, he went to the lawyer’s bed and began there to make complaints about K. “Dr. Huld, sir,” he said, “did you hear the way this man spoke to me? You can count the length of his trial in hours, and he wants to tell me what to do when I’ve been involved in a legal case for five years. He even insults me. He doesn’t know anything, but he insults me, when I, as far as my weak ability allows, when I’ve made a close study of how to behave with the court, what we ought to do and what the court practices are.” “Don’t let anyone bother you,” said the lawyer, “and do what seems to you to be right.” “I will,” said Block, as if speaking to himself to give himself courage, and with a quick glance to the side he kneeled down close beside the bed. “I’m kneeling now Dr. Huld, sir,” he said. But the lawyer remained silent. With one hand, Block carefully stroked the bed cover. In the silence while he did so, Leni, as she freed herself from K.’s hands, said, “You’re hurting me. Let go of me. I’m going over to Block.” She went over to him and sat on the edge of the bed. Block was very pleased at this and with lively, but silent, gestures he immediately urged her to intercede for him with the lawyer. It was clear that he desperately needed to be told something by the lawyer, although perhaps only so that he could make use of the information with his other lawyers. Leni probably knew very well how the lawyer could be brought round, pointed to his hand and pursed her lips as if making a kiss. Block immediately performed the hand-kiss and, at further urging from Leni, repeated it twice more. But the lawyer continued to be silent. Then Leni leant over the lawyer, as she stretched out, the attractive shape of her body could be seen, and, bent over close to his face, she stroked his long white hair. That now forced him to give an answer. “I’m rather wary of telling him,” said the lawyer, and his head could be seen shaking slightly, perhaps so that he would feel the pressure of Leni’s hand better. Block listened closely with his head lowered, as if by listening he were breaking an order. “What makes you so wary about it?” asked Leni. K. had the feeling he was listening to a contrived dialogue that had been repeated many times, that would be repeated many times more, and that for Block alone it would never lose its freshness. “What has his behaviour been like today?” asked the lawyer instead of an answer. Before Leni said anything she looked down at Block and watched him a short while as he raised his hands towards her and rubbed them together imploringly. Finally she gave a serious nod, turned back to the lawyer and said, “He’s been quiet and industrious.” This was an elderly businessman, a man whose beard was long, and he was begging a young girl to speak on his behalf. Even if there was some plan behind what he did, there was nothing that could reinstate him in the eyes of his fellow man. K. could not understand how the lawyer could have thought this performance would win him over. Even if he had done nothing earlier to make him want to leave then this scene would have done so. It was almost humiliating even for the onlooker. So these were the lawyer’s methods, which K. fortunately had not been exposed to for long, to let the client forget about the whole world and leave him with nothing but the hope of reaching the end of his trial by this deluded means. He was no longer a client, he was the lawyer’s dog. If the lawyer had ordered him to crawl under the bed as if it were a kennel and to bark out from under it, then he would have done so with enthusiasm. K. listened to all of this, testing it and thinking it over as if he had been given the task of closely observing everything spoken here, inform a higher office about it and write a report. “And what has he been doing all day?” asked the lawyer. “I kept him locked in the maid’s room all day,” said Leni, “so that he wouldn’t stop me doing my work. That’s where he usually stays. From time to time I looked in through the spyhole to see was he was doing, and each time he was kneeling on the bed and reading the papers you gave him, propped up on the window sill. That made a good impression on me; as the window only opens onto an air shaft and gives hardly any light. It showed how obedient he is that he was even reading in those conditions.” “I’m pleased to hear it,” said the lawyer. “But did he understand what he was reading?” While this conversation was going on, Block continually moved his lips and was clearly formulating the answers he hoped Leni would give. “Well I can’t give you any certain answer to that of course,” said Leni, “but I could see that he was reading thoroughly. He spent all day reading the same page, running his finger along the lines. Whenever I looked in on him he sighed as if this reading was a lot of work for him. I expect the papers you gave him were very hard to understand.” “Yes,” said the lawyer, “they certainly are that. And I really don’t think he understood anything of them. But they should at least give him some inkling of just how hard a struggle it is and how much work it is for me to defend him. And who am I doing all this hard work for? I’m doing it it’s laughable even to say it I’m doing it for Block. He ought to realise what that means, too. Did he study without a pause?” “Almost without a pause,” answered Leni. “Just the once he asked me for a drink of water, so I gave him a glassful through the window. Then at eight o’clock I let him out and gave him something to eat.” Block glanced sideways at K., as if he were being praised and had to impress K. as well. He now seemed more optimistic, he moved more freely and rocked back and forth on his knees. This made his astonishment all the more obvious when he heard the following words from the lawyer: “You speak well of him,” said the lawyer, “but that’s just what makes it difficult for me. You see, the judge did not speak well of him at all, neither about Block nor about his case.” “Didn’t speak well of him?” asked Leni. “How is that possible?” Block looked at her with such tension he seemed to think that although the judge’s words had been spoken so long before she would be able to change them in his favour. “Not at all,” said the lawyer. “In fact he became quite cross when I started to talk about Block to him. ‘Don’t talk to me about Block,’ he said. ‘He is my client,’ said I. ‘You’re letting him abuse you,’ he said. ‘I don’t think his case is lost yet,’ said I. ‘You’re letting him abuse you,’ he repeated. ‘I don’t think so,’ said I. ‘Block works hard in his case and always knows where it stands. He practically lives with me so that he always knows what’s happening. You don’t always find such enthusiasm as that. He’s not very pleasant personally, I grant you, his manners are terrible and he’s dirty, but as far as the trial’s concerned he’s quite immaculate.’ I said immaculate, but I was deliberately exaggerating. Then he said, ‘Block is sly, that’s all. He’s accumulated plenty of experience and knows how to delay proceedings. But there’s more that he doesn’t know than he does. What do you think he’d say if he learned his trial still hasn’t begun, if you told him they haven’t even rung the bell to announce the start of proceedings?’ Alright Block, alright,” said the lawyer, as at these words Block had begun to raise himself on his trembling knees and clearly wanted to plead for some explanation. It was the first time the lawyer had spoken any clear words directly to Block. He looked down with his tired eyes, half blankly and half at Block, who slowly sank back down on his knees under this gaze. “What the judge said has no meaning for you,” said the lawyer. “You needn’t be frightened at every word. If you do it again I won’t tell you anything else at all. It’s impossible to start a sentence without you looking at me as if you were receiving your final judgement. You should be ashamed of yourself here in front of my client! And you’re destroying the trust he has for me. Just what is it you want? You’re still alive, you’re still under my protection. There’s no point in worrying! Somewhere you’ve read that the final judgement can often come without warning, from anyone at any time. And, in the right circumstances, that’s basically true, but it’s also true that I dislike your anxiety and fear and see that you don’t have the trust in me you should have. Now what have I just said? I repeated something said by one of the judges. You know that there are so many various opinions about the procedure that they form into a great big pile and nobody can make any sense of them. This judge, for instance, sees proceedings as starting at a different point from where I do. A difference of opinion, nothing more. At a certain stage in the proceedings tradition has it that a sign is given by ringing a bell. This judge sees that as the point at which proceedings begin. I can’t set out all the opinions opposed to that view here, and you wouldn’t understand it anyway, suffice it to say that there are many reasons to disagree with him.” Embarrassed, Block ran his fingers through the pile of the carpet, his anxiety about what the judge had said had let him forget his inferior status towards the lawyer for a while, he thought only about himself and turned the judges words round to examine them from all sides. “Block,” said Leni, as if reprimanding him, and, taking hold of the collar of his coat, pulled him up slightly higher. “Leave the carpet alone and listen to what the lawyer is saying.”
几乎在他这样做的同时，莱妮就出现了。她急忙看着K和律师，想弄清楚到底发生了什么事。看到 K. 平静地坐在律师床边，她似乎放心了。她微笑着向K.点点头，K.茫然地回头看着她。 “去拿块，”律师说。但莱妮并没有去接他，而是走到门口喊道：“拦住！给律师！”然后，可能是因为律师把脸转向墙壁，没有注意，她溜到K.的椅子后面。从那时起，她就通过在椅背上向前倾身来打扰他，或者，尽管非常温柔和小心，她会用手梳理他的头发和脸颊。 K.最终试图抓住她的一只手来阻止她，在一番抵抗后莱妮让他握住了它。布洛克一被叫到就来了，但他仍然站在门口，似乎在犹豫要不要进去。他扬起眉毛，低下头，仿佛在听是否会重复去见律师的命令。 K.本可以鼓励他进去，但他决定不仅要与律师，还要与家里的一切彻底决裂，所以他一动不动。莱妮也沉默了。布洛克发现至少没有人追赶他，他踮起脚尖走进房间，脸色紧张，双手在背后握紧。他把门开着，以防他需要再回去。 K.甚至没有看他一眼，只是看着厚厚的被子，因为他挤得很靠近墙壁，所以看不到被子里的律师。然后就听见他的声音：“堵在这里？”他问。 布洛克已经悄悄地走进了房间，但这个问题似乎先是推了他的胸口，然后又推了他的后背，他似乎快要摔倒了，但仍然站着，深深地鞠了一躬，说道：“为您服务，先生。” ”。 “你想要什么？”律师问道：“你来得不是时候。” “我不是被召唤了吗？”布洛克问道，这更多的是自言自语，而不是律师。他双手护在身前，随时准备逃跑。 “你被传唤了，”律师说，“但你来得不是时候。”然后，停顿了一下，他补充道：“你总是来得不合时宜。”当律师开始讲话时，布洛克不再看床，而是盯着一个角落，只是听着，就好像扬声器发出的光亮得布洛克无法忍受。但他也很难听清，因为律师对着墙说话，语速又快又轻。 “先生，您想让我再次离开吗？”布洛克问道。 “好吧，你现在在这里，”律师说。 “停留！”就好像律师没有按照布洛克的意愿去做，而是用棍子威胁他，现在布洛克真的开始动摇了。 “我昨天去见了第三位法官，”律师说，“他是我的一个朋友，慢慢地把话题转到了你的话题上。你想知道他说了什么吗？” “哦，好的，拜托，”布洛克说。律师没有立即回答，布洛克又重复了一遍他的要求，并低下头，仿佛要跪下。但随后 K. 对他说道：“你认为你在做什么？”他喊道。莱妮本来想阻止他叫出声，所以他握住了她的另一只手。 让他紧紧握着的不是爱情，她频频叹息，试图将手从他身上松开。但布洛克因 K. 的爆发而受到惩罚，律师问他：“你的律师是谁？” “是的，先生，”布洛克说。 “除了我之外还有谁呢？”律师问道。 “除了你之外没有人，先生，”布洛克说。 “除了我之外，不要有任何人，”律师说。布洛克完全明白这意味着什么，他怒视着K.，猛烈地摇头。如果这些行为转化为言语，那将是粗俗的侮辱。 K. 一直很友好并且愿意与这样的人讨论他自己的案子！ “我不会再打扰你了，”K.靠在椅子上说道。 “你可以跪下，也可以趴着，随你喜欢。我不会再打扰你了。”但布洛克仍然有一些自豪感，至少对K来说是这样，他挥舞着拳头朝K.走去，当律师在场时，他尽可能大声地喊叫。 “你不应该这样对我说话，这是不允许的。你为什么侮辱我？尤其是在律师面前，我们，你和我，只是因为他的慈善而被容忍。你并不比我更好，你也被指控过一些事情，你也面临着指控。尽管如此，如果你仍然是一位绅士，那么我就和你一样是一位绅士，甚至更加绅士。我希望别人能以绅士的身份与我交谈，尤其是你。 如果你认为被允许坐在那里静静地听我趴着听你说的，这会让你比我更好，那么你应该牢记一句古老的法律谚语：如果你受到怀疑，最好移动而不是静止，就好像你静止不动一样，你可以在不知不觉中处于秤盘上，并与你的罪孽一起被称重。” K.什么也没说。他只是惊讶地看着这个心烦意乱的人，他的眼睛完全静止了。短短几个小时，他就发生了如此大的变化！难道是这场试炼让他左右摇摆，让他无法分清谁是朋友，谁是敌人？难道他看不出律师今天故意羞辱他，除了向K.炫耀他的权力，甚至可能借此征服K.之外没有其他目的吗？但是，如果布洛克看不到这一点，或者如果他非常害怕律师，以至于这种洞察力对他没有任何用处，那么他怎么会如此狡猾或如此大胆地向律师撒谎并向律师隐瞒呢？他有其他律师代表他工作吗？而他又怎么敢攻击随时泄露他秘密的K？但他比这更大胆，他走到律师的床前，开始抱怨K。赫尔德，先生，”他说，“你听到这个人对我说话的语气了吗？他的审判时间可以用小时来计算，他想告诉我当我已经卷入一个法律案件五年后该怎么办。他甚至侮辱我。他什么都不知道，但是当我以我薄弱的能力允许的范围内，当我仔细研究如何与法庭相处，我们应该做什么以及法庭的做法是什么时，他却侮辱我。” “不要让任何人打扰你，”律师说，“做你认为正确的事情。” “我会的。”布洛克说道，仿佛是在自言自语，给自己鼓起勇气，他快速地看了一眼旁边，在床边跪了下来。 “我现在跪下，赫尔德博士，先生，”他说。但律师却保持沉默。布洛克用一只手小心翼翼地抚摸着床罩。当他这样做时，莱妮在一片寂静中从K.的手中挣脱出来，说道：“你弄痛了我。让我走。我要去布洛克那里。”她走到他身边，坐在床边。布洛克对此非常高兴，他立即用活泼但沉默的手势催促她向律师求情。显然，他迫切需要律师告诉他一些事情，尽管也许只是为了让他能够与其他律师一起利用这些信息。莱妮大概很清楚如何才能把律师带过来，她指着他的手，抿起嘴唇，就像在吻一样。布洛克立即进行了亲吻，并在莱妮的进一步敦促下又重复了两次。但律师继续保持沉默。然后莱妮靠在律师身上，当她伸展身体时，可以看到她迷人的身体形状，弯下腰靠近他的脸，抚摸着他长长的白发。现在这迫使他必须给出答案。 “我不太愿意告诉他，”律师说道，可以看到他的头在轻微地摇晃，也许是为了更好地感受到莱妮手上的压力。布洛克低着头仔细听着，仿佛听着就违反了命令。 “是什么让你对此如此警惕？”莱妮问。 K. 他有一种感觉，他正在听一段做作的对话，它已经被重复了很多次，而且还会被重复很多次，而对于布洛克来说，它永远不会失去新鲜感。 “他今天的行为怎么样？”询问律师而不是回答。莱妮说话之前，她低头看着布洛克，看了他一会儿，他向她举起双手，恳求地揉搓着双手。最后她郑重地点了点头，转身对律师说：“他很安静，也很勤奋。”这是一位年长的商人，胡子很长，正在恳求一位年轻的女孩为他说话。即使他的所作所为背后有什么计划，也没有什么可以让他在同胞眼中恢复原样。 K. 无法理解律师怎么会认为这样的表现会赢得他的支持。即使他之前没有做什么让他想离开的事情，那么这一幕也会让他想离开。即使对于旁观者来说，这也几乎是一种耻辱。这就是律师的方法，幸运的是K.接触的时间不长，目的是让委托人忘记整个世界，只给他留下希望，通过这种欺骗手段完成审判。他不再是客户，他是律师的狗。如果律师命令他像狗窝一样爬到床底下并从下面吠叫，那么他会热情地这样做。 K.听着这一切，测试它，思考它，就好像他被赋予了仔细观察这里所说的一切，向上级报告并写报告的任务一样。 “他一整天都在做什么？”律师问道。 “我把他锁在女仆房里一整天，”莱妮说，“这样他就不会阻止我干活了。 那是他通常呆的地方。我时不时地从窥视孔里看他在做什么，每次他都跪在床上，靠在窗台上阅读你给他的文件。这给我留下了很好的印象；因为窗户只通向通风井，几乎不透光。他在那种情况下还在读书，这表明他是多么听话。” “我很高兴听到这个消息，”律师说。 “但是他明白他在读什么吗？”在谈话进行的过程中，布洛克不断地动着嘴唇，清晰地阐述着他希望莱妮给出的答案。 “当然，我不能给你任何确定的答案，”莱妮说，“但我看得出来他读得很仔细。他花了一整天时间阅读同一页，用手指沿着线条滑动。每当我看着他时，他都会叹息，好像阅读对他来说是一项繁重的工作。我估计你给他的论文很难理解。” “是的，”律师说，“他们确实是这样。我真的不认为他理解其中的任何内容。但他们至少应该让他知道这是一场多么艰难的斗争，以及我要为他辩护需要付出多少努力。我做这些辛苦的工作是为了谁？我正在做这件事，即使说我是为了布洛克做这件事也是可笑的。他也应该明白这意味着什么。他学习没有停顿吗？” “几乎没有停顿，”莱妮回答。 “有一次他向我要水喝，我就隔着窗户给他倒了一杯水。然后八点钟我就让他出去了，并给了他一些吃的。”布洛克斜眼看了K.一眼，仿佛他受到了表扬，也必须给K.留下深刻的印象。他现在看起来更加乐观，行动更加自如，膝盖来回摇晃。 当他听到律师的下面这句话时，他的惊讶更加明显：“你说他很好，”律师说，“但这就是让我难受的地方。你看，法官根本没有说他好话，无论是关于布洛克还是他的案子。” “没说他好话吗？”莱妮问。 “这怎么可能？”布洛克紧张地看着她，他似乎认为，尽管法官的话已经说了很久了，但她能够改变这些话，对他有利。 “一点也不，”律师说。 “事实上，当我开始和他谈论布洛克时，他变得非常生气。 “别跟我谈论布洛克，”他说。 “他是我的客户，”我说。“你让他虐待你，”他说。 “我认为他的案子还没有败诉，”我说。“你让他虐待你，”他重复道。 “我不这么认为，”我说，“布洛克在他的案子上很努力，而且总是知道事情的立场。”他几乎和我住在一起，所以他总是知道发生了什么。你并不总是能找到这样的热情。我承认，他个人不太令人愉快，他的举止很糟糕，而且很肮脏，但就审判而言，他非常完美。”我说完美，但我故意夸张。然后他说，‘布洛克很狡猾，仅此而已。他积累了丰富的经验，知道如何拖延诉讼程序。但他不知道的事情比他知道的还要多。如果他得知审判还没有开始，如果你告诉他他们甚至没有按铃宣布诉讼开始，你认为他会怎么说？’好吧，布洛克，好吧，”律师说道。听到这句话，布洛克开始用颤抖的膝盖站起来，显然想要请求一些解释。 这是律师第一次直接向布洛克说出明确的话语。他用疲倦的眼睛低下头，一半茫然，一半看着布洛克，布洛克在这种目光下慢慢跪倒在地。 “法官的话对你来说没有任何意义，”律师说。 “你不必对每一个字都感到害怕。如果你再这样做，我不会告诉你任何其他事情。如果你不看着我，就不可能开始一个句子，就好像你正在接受你的最终判断一样。你应该为自己在我的客户面前感到羞耻！你正在摧毁他对我的信任。你到底想要什么？你还活着，还在我的保护之下。担心是没有意义的！您在某处读到，最终的判决往往会在没有任何警告的情况下随时由任何人做出。而且，在适当的情况下，这基本上是正确的，但我不喜欢你的焦虑和恐惧，并且看到你对我没有应有的信任，这也是事实。现在我刚才说什么了？我重复了一位评委说过的话。你知道，关于这个程序有太多不同的意见，它们形成了一大堆，没有人能理解它们。例如，这位法官认为诉讼程序的起点与我的不同。意见不同，仅此而已。传统上，在诉讼程序的某个阶段，通过敲响铃来发出信号。这位法官认为这是诉讼程序开始的时刻。我无法在这里列出所有反对这个观点的观点，而且你也不会理解，只要说不同意他的理由有很多就可以了。” 布洛克尴尬地用手指抚摸着地毯堆，法官所说的话让他一时忘记了自己在律师面前的低人一等，他只想着自己，把法官的话反过来审视。来自四面八方。 “格挡，”莱妮仿佛在斥责他，然后抓住他的衣领，把他拉得稍高一些。 “别管地毯，听听律师是怎么说的。”

This chapter was left unfinished.
本章未完成。

Chapter Nine
第九章

In the Cathedral
在大教堂里

A very important Italian business contact of the bank had come to visit the city for the first time and K. was given the task of showing him some of its cultural sights. At any other time he would have seen this job as an honour but now, when he was finding it hard even to maintain his current position in the bank, he accepted it only with reluctance. Every hour that he could not be in the office was a cause of concern for him, he was no longer able to make use of his time in the office anything like as well as he had previously, he spent many hours merely pretending to do important work, but that only increased his anxiety about not being in the office. Then he sometimes thought he saw the deputy director, who was always watching, come into K.’s office, sit at his desk, look through his papers, receive clients who had almost become old friends of K., and lure them away from him, perhaps he even discovered mistakes, mistakes that seemed to threaten K. from a thousand directions when he was at work now, and which he could no longer avoid. So now, if he was ever asked to leave the office on business or even needed to make a short business trip, however much an honour it seemed and tasks of this sort happened to have increased substantially recently there was always the suspicion that they wanted to get him out of his office for a while and check his work, or at least the idea that they thought he was dispensable. It would not have been difficult for him to turn down most of these jobs, but he did not dare to do so because, if his fears had the slightest foundation, turning the jobs down would have been an acknowledgement of them. For this reason, he never demurred from accepting them, and even when he was asked to go on a tiring business trip lasting two days he said nothing about having to go out in the rainy autumn weather when he had a severe chill, just in order to avoid the risk of not being asked to go. When, with a raging headache, he arrived back from this trip he learned that he had been chosen to accompany the Italian business contact the following day. The temptation for once to turn the job down was very great, especially as it had no direct connection with business, but there was no denying that social obligations towards this business contact were in themselves important enough, only not for K., who knew quite well that he needed some successes at work if he was to maintain his position there and that, if he failed in that, it would not help him even if this Italian somehow found him quite charming; he did not want to be removed from his workplace for even one day, as the fear of not being allowed back in was too great, he knew full well that the fear was exaggerated but it still made him anxious. However, in this case it was almost impossible to think of an acceptable excuse, his knowledge of Italian was not great but still good enough; the deciding factor was that K. had earlier known a little about art history and this had become widely known around the bank in extremely exaggerated form, and that K. had been a member of the Society for the Preservation of City Monuments, albeit only for business reasons. It was said that this Italian was an art lover, so the choice of K. to accompany him was a matter of course.
该银行一位非常重要的意大利业务联系人首次来访这座城市，K. 的任务是向他展示一些城市的文化景观。换作其他时候，他都会把这份工作视为一种荣誉，但现在，当他发现自己在银行的职位都已经难以维持时，他才勉强接受了这份工作。他不能在办公室的每一个小时都让他感到担忧，他不再能够像以前那样充分利用在办公室的时间，他花了很多时间只是假装在做重要的事情工作，但这只会增加他对不在办公室的焦虑。然后他有时会觉得自己看到一直在注视着的副主任走进K.的办公室，坐在他的办公桌前翻看他的文件，接待那些几乎成为K.的老朋友的客户，并把他们从K.那里引诱走。对他来说，也许他甚至发现了错误，这些错误在他现在工作时似乎从一千个方向威胁着K，而且他再也无法避免了。所以现在，如果他被要求离开办公室出差，甚至需要进行一次短暂的出差，无论看起来多么荣幸，而且最近这类任务碰巧大幅增加，总有人怀疑他们是想让他离开办公室一段时间，检查一下他的工作，或者至少检查一下他们认为他是可有可无的。对他来说，拒绝大部分工作并不困难，但他不敢这样做，因为如果他的担心有丝毫根据，拒绝这些工作就等于承认这些工作。 为此，他从来没有拒绝过，甚至当他被要求出差两天劳累的时候，他也没有说要在秋天的阴雨天气里受寒，必须出去，只是为了以避免不被邀请去的风险。当他头痛欲裂地结束这次旅行回来时，他得知自己被选中陪同第二天的意大利商务联系人。一次拒绝这份工作的诱惑是非常大的，特别是因为它与业务没有直接联系，但不可否认的是，对这种业务联系的社会义务本身就足够重要，只是对 K. 来说不是，他很清楚好吧，如果他想保持自己的地位，他需要在工作中取得一些成功，如果他在这方面失败，即使这个意大利人不知何故发现他很有魅力，这对他也没有帮助；他一天都不想离开工作场所，因为太害怕不被允许回去，他很清楚这种担心被夸大了，但仍然让他感到焦虑。不过，在这种情况下，几乎不可能想出一个可以接受的借口，他的意大利语水平虽然不高，但也足够了；决定性因素是，K. 早些时候对艺术史略知一二，这在银行内以极其夸张的形式广为人知，而且 K. 曾是城市古迹保护协会的成员，尽管只是为了商业原因。据说这个意大利人是一位艺术爱好者，所以选择K.陪伴他也是理所当然的。

It was a very rainy and stormy morning when K., in a foul temper at the thought of the day ahead of him, arrived early at seven o’clock in the office so that he could at least do some work before his visitor would prevent him. He had spent half the night studying a book of Italian grammar so that he would be somewhat prepared and was very tired; his desk was less attractive to him than the window where he had spent far too much time sitting of late, but he resisted the temptation and sat down to his work. Unfortunately, just then the servitor came in and reported that the director had sent him to see whether the chief clerk was already in his office; if he was, then would he please be so kind as to come to his reception room as the gentleman from Italy was already there. “I’ll come straight away,” said K. He put a small dictionary in his pocket, took a guide to the city’s tourist sites under his arm that he had compiled for strangers, and went through the deputy director’s office into that of the director. He was glad he had come into the office so early and was able to be of service immediately, nobody could seriously have expected that of him. The deputy director’s office was, of course, still as empty as the middle of the night, the servitor had probably been asked to summon him too but without success. As K. entered the reception room two men stood up from the deep armchairs where they had been sitting. The director gave him a friendly smile, he was clearly very glad that K. was there, he immediately introduced him to the Italian who shook K.’s hand vigorously and joked that somebody was an early riser. K. did not quite understand whom he had in mind, it was moreover an odd expression to use and it took K. a little while to guess its meaning. He replied with a few bland phrases which the Italian received once more with a laugh, passing his hand nervously and repeatedly over his blue-grey, bushy moustache. This moustache was obviously perfumed, it was almost tempting to come close to it and sniff. When they had all sat down and begun a light preliminary conversation, K. was disconcerted to notice that he understood no more than fragments of what the Italian said. When he spoke very calmly he understood almost everything, but that was very infrequent, mostly the words gushed from his mouth and he seemed to be enjoying himself so much his head shook. When he was talking in this way his speech was usually wrapped up in some kind of dialect which seemed to K. to have nothing to do with Italian but which the director not only understood but also spoke, although K. ought to have foreseen this as the Italian came from the south of his country where the director had also spent several years. Whatever the cause, K. realised that the possibility of communicating with the Italian had been largely taken from him, even his French was difficult to understand, and his moustache concealed the movements of his lips which might have offered some help in understanding what he said. K. began to anticipate many difficulties, he gave up trying to understand what the Italian said with the director there, who could understand him so easily, it would have been pointless effort and for the time being did no more than scowl at the Italian as he relaxed sitting deep but comfortable in the armchair, as he frequently pulled at his short, sharply tailored jacket and at one time lifted his arms in the air and moved his hands freely to try and depict something that K. could not grasp, even though he was leaning forward and did not let the hands out of his sight. K. had nothing to occupy himself but mechanically watch the exchange between the two men and his tiredness finally made itself felt, to his alarm, although fortunately in good time, he once caught himself nearly getting up, turning round and leaving. Eventually the Italian looked at the clock and jumped up. After taking his leave from the director he turned to K., pressing himself so close to him that K. had to push his chair back just so that he could move. The director had, no doubt, seen the anxiety in K.’s eyes as he tried to cope with this dialect of Italian, he joined in with this conversation in a way that was so adroit and unobtrusive that he seemed to be adding no more than minor comments, whereas in fact he was swiftly and patiently breaking into what the Italian said so that K. could understand. K. learned in this way that the Italian first had a few business matters to settle, that he unfortunately had only a little time at his disposal, that he certainly did not intend to rush round to see every monument in the city, that he would much rather at least as long as K. would agree, it was entirely his decision just see the cathedral and to do so thoroughly. He was extremely pleased to be accompanied by someone who was so learned and so pleasant by this he meant K., who was occupied not with listening to the Italian but the director and asked if he would be so kind, if the time was suitable, to meet him in the cathedral in two hours’ time at about ten o’clock. He hoped he would certainly be able to be there at that time. K. made an appropriate reply, the Italian shook first the director’s hand and then K.’s, then the director’s again and went to the door, half turned to the two men who followed him and continuing to talk without a break. K. remained together with the director for a short while, although the director looked especially unhappy today. He thought he needed to apologise to K. for something and told him they were standing intimately close together he had thought at first he would accompany the Italian himself, but then he gave no more precise reason than this then he decided it would be better to send K. with him. He should not be surprised if he could not understand the Italian at first, he would be able to very soon, and even if he really could not understand very much he said it was not so bad, as it was really not so important for the Italian to be understood. And anyway, K.’s knowledge of Italian was surprisingly good, the director was sure he would get by very well. And with that, it was time for K. to go. He spent the time still remaining to him with a dictionary, copying out obscure words he would need to guide the Italian round the cathedral. It was an extremely irksome task, servitors brought him the mail, bank staff came with various queries and, when they saw that K. was busy, stood by the door and did not go away until he had listened to them, the deputy director did not miss the opportunity to disturb K. and came in frequently, took the dictionary from his hand and flicked through its pages, clearly for no purpose, when the door to the ante-room opened even clients would appear from the half darkness and bow timidly to him they wanted to attract his attention but were not sure whether he had seen them all this activity was circling around K. with him at its centre while he compiled the list of words he would need, then looked them up in the dictionary, then wrote them out, then practised their pronunciation and finally tried to learn them by heart. The good intentions he had had earlier, though, seemed to have left him completely, it was the Italian who had caused him all this effort and sometimes he became so angry with him that he buried the dictionary under some papers firmly intending to do no more preparation, but then he realised he could not walk up and down in the cathedral with the Italian without saying a word, so, with in an even greater rage, he pulled the dictionary back out again.
那是一个风雨交加的早晨，K. 想到即将到来的一天，心情不好，七点钟就早早来到办公室，这样他至少可以在来访者阻止之前做一些工作。他。他花了半个晚上的时间学习了一本意大利语语法书，以便做好一些准备，现在已经很累了。他的办公桌对他的吸引力不如窗边，他最近花了太多时间坐在窗边，但他抵制住了诱惑，坐下来工作。不巧的是，就在这时，服务员进来报告说，主任让他去看看首席文员是否已经到了办公室，没有。如果他是的话，那么请他方便地来到他的接待室，因为那位来自意大利的绅士已经在那里了。 “我马上就来。”K说。他在口袋里揣了一本小字典，腋下夹着一本他为陌生人编的城市旅游指南，穿过副局长办公室，走进了市政府的办公室。导演。他很高兴自己这么早就来到办公室，能够立即提供服务，没有人能真正期望他能做到这一点。当然，半夜里，副局长的办公室还是空荡荡的，估计也叫仆人去叫他，但没有成功。当K.进入接待室时，两个男人从他们刚才坐的深扶手椅上站起来。导演给了他一个友善的微笑，显然很高兴K.在场，立即把他介绍给意大利人，意大利人用力握着K.的手，并开玩笑说有人早起。 K.不太明白他指的是谁，而且这个表达方式也很奇怪，K.花了好一会儿才猜出它的意思。 他回答了几句平淡的话语，意大利人再次大笑起来，他的手紧张地反复抚摸着他的蓝灰色浓密的小胡子。这小胡子明显带着香味，让人忍不住凑过去闻一闻。当他们都坐下来开始简单的初步交谈时，K. 惊讶地发现他只听懂了意大利人所说的一些片段。当他很平静地说话时，他几乎什么都听懂了，但这种情况很少见，大部分都是从他嘴里喷出来的，他似乎很享受，连头都在摇头。当他以这种方式说话时，他的讲话通常是用某种方言包裹起来的，在K.看来，这种方言与意大利语无关，但导演不仅能听懂，而且还能说出来，尽管K.应该预见到这一点这位意大利人来自他的国家南部，导演也在那里呆过几年。不管是什么原因，K. 意识到与意大利人交流的可能性在很大程度上被剥夺了，甚至他的法语也很难理解，而且他的小胡子掩盖了他嘴唇的动作，这可能有助于理解他所说的话。 。 K.开始预见到许多困难，他放弃了试图理解意大利人对那里的导演所说的话，导演很容易就能理解他的意思，这将是毫无意义的努力，暂时只是对意大利人皱起眉头，因为他放松地坐在扶手椅上，坐得很深，但很舒服，他经常拉扯他那件裁剪得当的短夹克，有时将双臂举在空中，自由地移动双手，试图描绘出 K. 尽管他身体前倾，双手不离开自己的视线，但他还是抓不住。 K.无事可做，只是机械地看着两个人之间的交流，他的疲倦终于显现出来，令他震惊的是，尽管幸运的是，他有一次发现自己差点站起来，转身离开。最后，意大利人看了看时钟，跳了起来。与导演告别后，他转向 K.，将自己压得离他太近，以至于 K. 不得不将椅子向后推，以便他能够移动。毫无疑问，导演看到了K.在试图应对这种意大利语方言时眼中的焦虑，他以一种如此熟练且不引人注目的方式加入了这场对话，以至于他似乎不再添加更多内容而实际上，他是在迅速而耐心地打断意大利人所说的话，以便 K. 能够理解。 K.通过这种方式了解到，意大利人首先有一些生意问题需要解决，不幸的是他只有一点时间可以支配，他当然不打算匆匆忙忙地参观城市里的每一个纪念碑，他会更确切地说，至少只要K.同意，这完全是他的决定，只是参观大教堂并彻底参观。他非常高兴能有一个如此博学、如此令人愉快的人陪伴，他指的是K.，他不是在听意大利人的讲话，而是在听导演的讲话，并询问他是否愿意如此友善，时间是否合适，两小时后十点左右在大教堂与他会面。他希望那个时候他一定能够到场。 K.做出了恰当的答复，意大利人先与导演握手，然后与K.握手。” ，然后导演又走到了门口，半转头看向跟在他身后继续不停地说话的两个人。 K.和导演在一起呆了一会儿，虽然今天导演看起来特别不高兴。他认为他需要为某件事向K道歉，并告诉他他们站得很近，他一开始以为他会亲自陪同意大利人，但后来他没有给出比这更准确的理由，然后他决定最好派 K. 和他一起去。如果他一开始听不懂意大利语，他不应该感到惊讶，他很快就能听懂，即使他真的听不懂，他也说这还不错，因为这对意大利人来说确实不那么重要。意大利语要听得懂。不管怎样，K.的意大利语出奇地好，导演相信他会过得很好。就这样，K. 离开了。他把剩下的时间都花在了一本字典上，抄下了他需要引导意大利人参观大教堂的晦涩单词。这是一件极其烦人的事，服务员给他送邮件，银行工作人员带着各种询问过来，见K.很忙，就站在门口，直到他听完才走开，副局长才走了。不放过打扰K的机会，频繁地进来，从他手里接过字典翻阅起来，显然是没有目的的，当接待室的门打开时，就连客人也会从半暗中出现，怯生生地鞠躬。对他来说，他们想引起他的注意，但不确定他是否看到他们，所有这些活动都围绕着K。 以他为中心，他列出了他需要的单词列表，然后在字典中查找它们，然后将它们写下来，然后练习它们的发音，最后尝试背诵它们。不过，他之前的好意似乎已经完全消失了，是意大利人让他付出了这么多努力，有时他对他非常生气，以至于他把字典埋在一些文件下面，坚决不想再做更多的事情。准备好了，但随后他意识到自己不能和意大利人在大教堂里走来走去，一言不发，于是，他更加愤怒了，又把字典拉了出来。

At exactly half past nine, just when he was about to leave, there was a telephone call for him, Leni wished him good morning and asked how he was, K. thanked her hurriedly and told her it was impossible for him to talk now as he had to go to the cathedral. “To the cathedral?” asked Leni. “Yes, to the cathedral.” “What do you have to go to the cathedral for?” said Leni. K. tried to explain it to her briefly, but he had hardly begun when Leni suddenly said, “They’re harassing you.” One thing that K. could not bear was pity that he had not wanted or expected, he took his leave of her with two words, but as he put the receiver back in its place he said, half to himself and half to the girl on the other end of the line who could no longer hear him, “Yes, they’re harassing me.”
九点半准时，正当他准备离开的时候，接到了他的电话，莱妮向他道早安，并询问他怎么样，K.连忙感谢她，并告诉她现在不可能说话了，因为他必须去大教堂。 “去大教堂？”莱妮问。 “是的，去大教堂。” “你去大教堂做什么？”莱妮说。 K.试图向她简单地解释一下，但他刚开始，莱妮突然说道：“他们在骚扰你。” K.无法忍受的一件事是遗憾，他没有想要或没有预料到，他只说了两个字就告别了她，但当他把听筒放回原处时，他一半对自己，一半对女孩说道。电话那头听不见他的声音，“是的，他们在骚扰我。”

By now the time was late and there was almost a danger he would not be on time. He took a taxi to the cathedral, at the last moment he had remembered the album that he had had no opportunity to give to the Italian earlier and so took it with him now. He held it on his knees and drummed impatiently on it during the whole journey. The rain had eased off slightly but it was still damp chilly and dark, it would be difficult to see anything in the cathedral but standing about on cold flagstones might well make K.’s chill much worse. The square in front of the cathedral was quite empty, K. remembered how even as a small child he had noticed that nearly all the houses in this narrow square had the curtains at their windows closed most of the time, although today, with the weather like this, it was more understandable. The cathedral also seemed quite empty, of course no-one would think of going there on a day like this. K. hurried along both the side naves but saw no-one but an old woman who, wrapped up in a warm shawl, was kneeling at a picture of the Virgin Mary and staring up at it. Then, in the distance, he saw a church official who limped away through a doorway in the wall. K. had arrived on time, it had struck ten just as he was entering the building, but the Italian still was not there. K. went back to the main entrance, stood there indecisively for a while, and then walked round the cathedral in the rain in case the Italian was waiting at another entrance. He was nowhere to be found. Could the director have misunderstood what time they had agreed on? How could anyone understand someone like that properly anyway? Whatever had happened, K. would have to wait for him for at least half an hour. As he was tired he wanted to sit down, he went back inside the cathedral, he found something like a small carpet on one of the steps, he moved it with his foot to a nearby pew, wrapped himself up tighter in his coat, put the collar up and sat down. To pass the time he opened the album and flicked through the pages a little but soon had to give up as it became so dark that when he looked up he could hardly make out anything in the side nave next to him.
现在时间已经很晚了，他几乎有无法准时到达的危险。他打车去了大教堂，在最后一刻他想起了之前没有机会送给意大利人的专辑，所以现在就带着它走了。他把它放在膝盖上，在整个旅程中不耐烦地敲击着它。雨已经小了一些，但天气仍然潮湿、阴冷、黑暗，很难看清大教堂里的任何东西，但站在冰冷的石板上很可能会让 K. 的寒冷变得更严重。大教堂前的广场空无一人，K.记得小时候他就注意到，这个狭窄广场上几乎所有的房子大部分时间都拉着窗帘，尽管今天天气不好。这样一来，就更好理解了。大教堂也显得空荡荡的，当然没有人会想到在这样的日子去那里。 K. 匆匆沿着两侧的中殿走去，但除了一位老妇人外，没有人看到，她裹着一条温暖的围巾，跪在圣母玛利亚的画像前，抬头凝视着它。然后，在远处，他看到一名教会官员一瘸一拐地从墙上的一个门口走了出去。 K.准时到达，当他进入大楼时，已经敲响了十点，但意大利人仍然没有在那里。 K.回到正门，犹豫不决地站了一会儿，然后冒着雨绕着大教堂走了一圈，以防意大利人在另一个入口等候。他无处可寻。难道导演误会了他们约定的时间？无论如何，怎么会有人正确地理解这样的人呢？不管发生什么事，K.至少要等他半个小时。 由于累了，他想坐下来，他回到大教堂内，发现其中一个台阶上有一块像小地毯一样的东西，他用脚把它移到附近的长椅上，用外套把自己裹得更紧，把立起衣领坐下。为了打发时间，他打开相册，翻阅了几页，但很快就不得不放弃，因为天色变得如此黑暗，当他抬起头来时，他几乎看不清旁边中殿里的任何东西。

In the distance there was a large triangle of candles flickering on the main altar, K. was not certain whether he had seen them earlier. Perhaps they had only just been lit. Church staff creep silently as part of their job, you don’t notice them. When K. happened to turn round he also saw a tall, stout candle attached to a column not far behind him. It was all very pretty, but totally inadequate to illuminate the pictures which were usually left in the darkness of the side altars, and seemed to make the darkness all the deeper. It was discourteous of the Italian not to come but it was also sensible of him, there would have been nothing to see, they would have had to content themselves with seeking out a few pictures with K.’s electric pocket torch and looking at them one small part at a time. K. went over to a nearby side chapel to see what they could have hoped for, he went up a few steps to a low marble railing and leant over it to look at the altar picture by the light of his torch. The eternal light hung disturbingly in front of it. The first thing that K. partly saw and partly guessed at was a large knight in armour who was shown at the far edge of the painting. He was leaning on his sword that he had stuck into the naked ground in front of him where only a few blades of grass grew here and there. He seemed to be paying close attention to something that was being played out in front of him. It was astonishing to see how he stood there without going any closer. Perhaps it was his job to stand guard. It was a long time since K. had looked at any pictures and he studied the knight for a long time even though he had continually to blink as he found it difficult to bear the green light of his torch. Then when he moved the light to the other parts of the picture he found an interment of Christ shown in the usual way, it was also a comparatively new painting. He put his torch away and went back to his place.
远处，主祭坛上有一大片三角形的蜡烛在闪烁，K.不确定他之前是否见过它们。也许它们刚刚被点燃。教会工作人员在工作中默默地爬行，你不会注意到他们。当K.碰巧转过身来时，他还看到一根又高又粗的蜡烛，挂在他身后不远处的一根柱子上。一切都很漂亮，但完全不足以照亮那些通常留在侧祭坛黑暗中的图画，而且似乎让黑暗变得更深。意大利人不来是不礼貌的，但他也是明智的，那就没什么可看的了，他们只能用 K. 的袖珍手电筒找出几张照片并看着它们。一次一小部分。 K.走到附近的一个侧教堂，看看他们能期待什么，他走上几步，走到一个低矮的大理石栏杆前，靠在栏杆上，借着手电筒的光看圣坛的照片。永恒的光芒令人不安地悬挂在它的面前。 K. 部分看到、部分猜测的第一件事是一位穿着盔甲的大骑士，他出现在画作的最边缘。他靠着插在面前光秃秃的土地上的剑，那里只长着几片草叶。他似乎正在密切关注着眼前正在上演的事情。令人惊讶的是他站在那里没有走近。或许，他的职责就是站岗。 K.已经很久没有看过任何照片了，他研究了骑士很长一段时间，尽管他不得不不断地眨眼，因为他发现很难忍受手电筒的绿光。 然后当他把光线移到画面的其他部分时，他发现按照通常的方式展示了基督的埋葬，这也是一幅相对较新的画。他收起手电筒，回到了自己的位置。

There seemed to be no point in waiting for the Italian any longer, but outside it was certainly raining heavily, and as it was not so cold in the cathedral as K. had expected he decided to stay there for the time being. Close by him was the great pulpit, there were two plain golden crosses attached to its little round roof which were lying almost flat and whose tips crossed over each other. The outside of the pulpit’s balustrade was covered in green foliage which continued down to the column supporting it, little angels could be seen among the leaves, some of them lively and some of them still. K. walked up to the pulpit and examined it from all sides, its stonework had been sculpted with great care, it seemed as if the foliage had trapped a deep darkness between and behind its leaves and held it there prisoner, K. lay his hand in one of these gaps and cautiously felt the stone, until then he had been totally unaware of this pulpit’s existence. Then K. happened to notice one of the church staff standing behind the next row of pews, he wore a loose, creased, black cassock, he held a snuff box in his left hand and he was watching K. Now what does he want? thought K. Do I seem suspicious to him? Does he want a tip? But when the man in the cassock saw that K. had noticed him he raised his right hand, a pinch of snuff still held between two fingers, and pointed in some vague direction. It was almost impossible to understand what this behaviour meant, K. waited a while longer but the man in the cassock did not stop gesturing with his hand and even augmented it by nodding his head. “Now what does he want?” asked K. quietly, he did not dare call out loud here; but then he drew out his purse and pushed his way through the nearest pews to reach the man. He, however, immediately gestured to turn down this offer, shrugged his shoulders and limped away. As a child K. had imitated riding on a horse with the same sort of movement as this limp. “This old man is like a child,” thought K., “he doesn’t have the sense for anything more than serving in a church. Look at the way he stops when I stop, and how he waits to see whether I’ll continue.” With a smile, K. followed the old man all the way up the side nave and almost as far as the main altar, all this time the old man continued to point at something but K. deliberately avoided looking round, he was only pointing in order to make it harder for K. to follow him. Eventually, K. did stop following, he did not want to worry the old man too much, and he also did not want to frighten him away completely in case the Italian turned up after all.
看来再等意大利人已经没有意义了，但外面确实下着大雨，而且大教堂里并不像K.想象的那么冷，他决定暂时留在那里。他旁边是一座大讲坛，小小的圆形屋顶上挂着两个朴素的金色十字架，十字架几乎平放在地上，尖端互相交叉。讲坛的栏杆外面长满了绿色的树叶，一直延伸到支撑它的柱子，树叶间隐约可见小天使，有的活泼，有的静止。 K.走到讲坛上，从各个方向检查它，它的石雕经过精心雕刻，叶子似乎在叶子之间和后面陷入了深深的黑暗，并将其囚禁在那里，K.放下了他的手他从其中一个缝隙中小心翼翼地摸着石头，在此之前他完全不知道这个讲坛的存在。这时，K偶然发现下排长椅后面站着一名教堂工作人员，他穿着一件宽松的、有折痕的黑色袈裟，左手拿着一个鼻烟盒，正在看着K。现在他想做什么？ K想。他觉得我可疑吗？他想要小费吗？但当穿袈裟的男人看到K.注意到他时，他抬起右手，两根手指之间还夹着一撮鼻烟，指向某个模糊的方向。 K.简直无法理解这个举动意味着什么，又等了一会儿，但那身穿袈裟的男子却不停地比划着，甚至还点了点头。 “现在他想要什么？” K轻声问道，他在这里不敢大声喊叫；但随后他掏出钱包，穿过最近的长凳，走到了那个人身边。 然而，他立即做出拒绝这个提议，耸耸肩，一瘸一拐地走开了。当还是个孩子的时候，K.曾模仿过骑马，动作与这种跛行的动作相同。 “这个老人就像个孩子，”K想道，“除了在教堂里服务之外，他没有其他任何感觉。看看我停下来时他就停下来的样子，以及他是如何等待我是否继续下去的。” K.微笑着跟着老人一直走到侧殿，几乎一直到了主祭坛，而老人一直在指着什么，K.却刻意避免回头看，只是指着里面。为了让K.更难跟随他。最终，K.还是停止了跟踪，他不想让老人太担心，也不想把他彻底吓跑，以免意大利人出现。

When he entered the central nave to go back to where he had left the album, he noticed a small secondary pulpit on a column almost next to the stalls by the altar where the choir sat. It was very simple, made of plain white stone, and so small that from a distance it looked like an empty niche where the statue of a saint ought to have been. It certainly would have been impossible for the priest to take a full step back from the balustrade, and, although there was no decoration on it, the top of the pulpit curved in exceptionally low so that a man of average height would not be able stand upright and would have to remain bent forward over the balustrade. In all, it looked as if it had been intended to make the priest suffer, it was impossible to understand why this pulpit would be needed as there were also the other ones available which were large and so artistically decorated.
当他进入中央中殿准备回到离开专辑的地方时，他注意到在唱诗班所在的祭坛旁边的隔间附近的一根柱子上有一个小讲坛。它非常简单，由普通的白色石头制成，而且很小，从远处看它就像一个空的壁龛，那里本来应该是圣人的雕像。神父根本不可能从栏杆上退后一步，而且，虽然上面没有任何装饰，但讲坛的顶部却弯得很低，一般身高的人根本站不起来。直立，并且必须在栏杆上保持向前弯曲。总而言之，看起来好像是为了让神父受苦，无法理解为什么需要这个讲坛，因为还有其他的讲坛很大，而且装饰得很艺术。

And K. would certainly not have noticed this little pulpit if there had not been a lamp fastened above it, which usually meant there was a sermon about to be given. So was a sermon to be given now? In this empty church? K. looked down at the steps which, pressed close against the column, led up to the pulpit. They were so narrow they seemed to be there as decoration on the column rather than for anyone to use. But under the pulpit K. grinned in astonishment there really was a priest standing with his hand on the handrail ready to climb the steps and looking at K. Then he nodded very slightly, so that K. crossed himself and genuflected as he should have done earlier. With a little swing, the priest went up into the pulpit with short fast steps. Was there really a sermon about to begin? Maybe the man in the cassock had not been really so demented, and had meant to lead K.’s way to the preacher, which in this empty church would have been very necessary. And there was also, somewhere in front of a picture of the Virgin Mary, an old woman who should have come to hear the sermon. And if there was to be a sermon why had it not been introduced on the organ? But the organ remained quiet and merely looked out weakly from the darkness of its great height.
如果上面没有固定一盏灯，K.肯定不会注意到这个小讲坛，这通常意味着即将进行布道。那么现在要布道吗？在这个空荡荡的教堂里？ K.低头看着台阶，台阶紧靠着柱子，通向讲坛。它们太窄了，看起来像是柱子上的装饰，而不是供任何人使用。但讲坛下，K. 惊讶地笑着，果然有一位神父手扶着扶手，准备爬上台阶，看着 K。 然后他轻轻地点了点头，K. 就在胸前画了十字，并像他应该做的那样跪下了。早些时候。神父轻轻一晃，迈着短小快的步伐走上了讲坛。真的有布道即将开始吗？也许那个穿法衣的男人并没有真的那么疯狂，他的意思是带K.去见传教士，这在这座空荡荡的教堂里是非常有必要的。在圣母玛利亚的画像前，还有一位本该来听布道的老妇人。如果要进行布道，为什么不使用管风琴呢？但风琴依然安静，只是从其高处的黑暗中微弱地向外张望。

K. now considered whether he should leave as quickly as possible, if he did not do it now there would be no chance of doing so during the sermon and he would have to stay there for as long as it lasted, he had lost so much time when he should have been in his office, there had long been no need for him to wait for the Italian any longer, he looked at his watch, it was eleven. But could there really be a sermon given? Could K. constitute the entire congregation? How could he when he was just a stranger who wanted to look at the church? That, basically, was all he was. The idea of a sermon, now, at eleven o’clock, on a workday, in hideous weather, was nonsense. The priest there was no doubt that he was a priest, a young man with a smooth, dark face was clearly going up there just to put the lamp out after somebody had lit it by mistake.
K现在考虑要不要尽快离开，如果现在不离开的话，讲道的时候就没有机会离开了，他就得一直呆在那里，他失去了太多该到办公室的时间已经到了，他早就不用再等意大利人了，他看了看手表，已经十一点了。但真的可以讲道吗？ K. 可以构成整个会众吗？他只是一个想参观教堂的陌生人，怎么可能呢？基本上，这就是他的全部。现在，在工作日的十一点钟，在恶劣的天气里，讲道的想法简直是无稽之谈。神父毫无疑问是个神父，一个有着光滑黑脸的年轻人，显然是为了在有人误点灯后去把灯灭掉的。

But there had been no mistake, the priest seemed rather to check that the lamp was lit and turned it a little higher, then he slowly turned to face the front and leant down on the balustrade gripping its angular rail with both hands. He stood there like that for a while and, without turning his head, looked around. K. had moved back a long way and leant his elbows on the front pew. Somewhere in the church he could not have said exactly where he could make out the man in the cassock hunched under his bent back and at peace, as if his work were completed. In the cathedral it was now very quiet! But K. would have to disturb that silence, he had no intention of staying there; if it was the priest’s duty to preach at a certain time regardless of the circumstances then he could, and he could do it without K.’s taking part, and K.’s presence would do nothing to augment the effect of it. So K. began slowly to move, felt his way on tiptoe along the pew, arrived at the broad aisle and went along it without being disturbed, except for the sound of his steps, however light, which rang out on the stone floor and resounded from the vaulting, quiet but continuous at a repeating, regular pace. K. felt slightly abandoned as, probably observed by the priest, he walked by himself between the empty pews, and the size of the cathedral seemed to be just at the limit of what a man could bear. When he arrived back at where he had been sitting he did not hesitate but simply reached out for the album he had left there and took it with him. He had nearly left the area covered by pews and was close to the empty space between himself and the exit when, for the first time, he heard the voice of the priest. A powerful and experienced voice. It pierced through the reaches of the cathedral ready waiting for it! But the priest was not calling out to the congregation, his cry was quite unambiguous and there was no escape from it, he called “Josef K.!”
但没有错，神父似乎是在检查灯是否亮着，把灯调高了一点，然后他慢慢地转过身来面向前方，俯身在栏杆上，双手抓住了栏杆。他就这样站了一会儿，没有回头，环顾四周。 K. 向后退了很远，把胳膊肘靠在前排座位上。在教堂的某个地方，他无法准确地说出他在哪里能辨认出那个穿着法衣的男人，他弯着腰，平静地弯着腰，好像他的工作已经完成了。大教堂内现在非常安静！但K.必须打破这种沉默，他无意留在那里；他不想再呆在那里。如果神父有责任在某个时间讲道，无论情况如何，那么他就可以，而且他可以在没有K.参与的情况下做到这一点，而且K.的存在不会增强其效果。于是K.开始慢慢地移动，踮起脚尖沿着长椅摸索，来到宽阔的过道，沿着它走，没有受到打扰，除了他的脚步声，无论多么轻，在石头地板上响起并回响。从跳马开始，安静但连续，以重复的、有规律的速度。 K. 感到有点被遗弃，可能是神父注意到的，他独自在空荡荡的长椅之间行走，而大教堂的大小似乎正好达到了一个人所能承受的极限。当他回到原来坐的地方时，他没有犹豫，只是伸手拿起他留在那儿的相册，把它带走了。当他几乎离开长凳覆盖的区域并接近自己和出口之间的空地时，他第一次听到了牧师的声音。有力且经验丰富的声音。 它穿过大教堂的范围，准备等待它！但神父并没有向会众大声喊叫，他的喊声相当明确，无法逃脱，他喊道：“约瑟夫·K！””

K. stood still and looked down at the floor. In theory he was still free, he could have carried on walking, through one of three dark little wooden doors not far in front of him and away from there. It would simply mean he had not understood, or that he had understood but chose not to pay attention to it. But if he once turned round he would be trapped, then he would have acknowledged that he had understood perfectly well, that he really was the Josef K. the priest had called to and that he was willing to follow. If the priest had called out again K. would certainly have carried on out the door, but everything was silent as K. also waited, he turned his head slightly as he wanted to see what the priest was doing now. He was merely standing in the pulpit as before, but it was obvious that he had seen K. turn his head. If K. did not now turn round completely it would have been like a child playing hide and seek. He did so, and the priest beckoned him with his finger. As everything could now be done openly he ran because of curiosity and the wish to get it over with with long flying leaps towards the pulpit. At the front pews he stopped, but to the priest he still seemed too far away, he reached out his hand and pointed sharply down with his finger to a place immediately in front of the pulpit. And K. did as he was told, standing in that place he had to bend his head a long way back just to see the priest. “You are Josef K.,” said the priest, and raised his hand from the balustrade to make a gesture whose meaning was unclear. “Yes,” said K., he considered how freely he had always given his name in the past, for some time now it had been a burden to him, now there were people who knew his name whom he had never seen before, it had been so nice first to introduce yourself and only then for people to know who you were. “You have been accused,” said the priest, especially gently. “Yes,” said K., “so I have been informed.” “Then you are the one I am looking for,” said the priest. “I am the prison chaplain.” “I see,” said K. “I had you summoned here,” said the priest, “because I wanted to speak to you.” “I knew nothing of that,” said K. “I came here to show the cathedral to a gentleman from Italy.” “That is beside the point,” said the priest. “What are you holding in your hand? Is it a prayer book?” “No,” answered K., “it’s an album of the city’s tourist sights.” “Put it down,” said the priest. K. threw it away with such force that it flapped open and rolled across the floor, tearing its pages. “Do you know your case is going badly?” asked the priest. “That’s how it seems to me too,” said K. “I’ve expended a lot of effort on it, but so far with no result. Although I do still have some documents to submit.” “How do you imagine it will end?” asked the priest. “At first I thought it was bound to end well,” said K., “but now I have my doubts about it. I don’t know how it will end. Do you know?” “I don’t,” said the priest, “but I fear it will end badly. You are considered guilty. Your case will probably not even go beyond a minor court. Provisionally at least, your guilt is seen as proven.” “But I’m not guilty,” said K., “there’s been a mistake. How is it even possible for someone to be guilty. We’re all human beings here, one like the other.” “That is true,” said the priest, “but that is how the guilty speak.” “Do you presume I’m guilty too?” asked K. “I make no presumptions about you,” said the priest. “I thank you for that,” said K. “but everyone else involved in these proceedings has something against me and presumes I’m guilty. They even influence those who aren’t involved. My position gets harder all the time.” “You don’t understand the facts,” said the priest, “the verdict does not come suddenly, proceedings continue until a verdict is reached gradually.” “I see,” said K., lowering his head. “What do you intend to do about your case next?” asked the priest. “I still need to find help,” said K., raising his head to see what the priest thought of this. “There are still certain possibilities I haven’t yet made use of.” “You look for too much help from people you don’t know,” said the priest disapprovingly, “and especially from women. Can you really not see that’s not the help you need?” “Sometimes, in fact quite often, I could believe you’re right,” said K., “but not always. Women have a lot of power. If I could persuade some of the women I know to work together with me then I would be certain to succeed. Especially in a court like this that seems to consist of nothing but woman-chasers. Show the examining judge a woman in the distance and he’ll run right over the desk, and the accused, just to get to her as soon as he can.” The priest lowered his head down to the balustrade, only now did the roof over the pulpit seem to press him down. What sort of dreadful weather could it be outside? It was no longer just a dull day, it was deepest night. None of the stained glass in the main window shed even a flicker of light on the darkness of the walls. And this was the moment when the man in the cassock chose to put out the candles on the main altar, one by one. “Are you cross with me?” asked K. “Maybe you don’t know what sort of court it is you serve.” He received no answer. “Well, it’s just my own experience,” said K. Above him there was still silence. “I didn’t mean to insult you,” said K. At that, the priest screamed down at K.: “Can you not see two steps in front of you?” He shouted in anger, but it was also the scream of one who sees another fall and, shocked and without thinking, screams against his own will.
K.一动不动地站着，低头看着地板。理论上他仍然是自由的，他可以继续行走，穿过他前面不远的三扇深色小木门中的一扇，远离那里。那只能说明他没听懂，或者他已经听懂了，但选择不去关注。但如果他一回头就会被困住，那么他就会承认他已经完全理解了，他确实是牧师召唤的约瑟夫·K.并且他愿意跟随。如果神父再喊一声，K.肯定会往门外走去，但一切都静悄悄的，K.也在等待，微微侧过头，想看看神父现在在做什么。他只是像之前一样站在讲坛上，但显然他已经看到K.转过了头。如果K.现在没有完全转过身来，那就就像一个孩子在玩捉迷藏一样。他这样做了，神父用手指向他招手。现在一切都可以公开进行了，他出于好奇和想要结束这一切的愿望而跑去，长长地飞跃到讲坛上。他在前面的座位上停了下来，但在神父看来，他仍然显得太远，他伸出手，用手指尖尖地指向讲坛前的一个地方。 K.照他说的做了，站在那个地方，他必须把头向后仰很久才能看到牧师。 “你是约瑟夫·K。”神父说着，从栏杆上举起了手，做了一个手势，但意思不明。 “是的，”K说。他想，以前他总是很随意地报出自己的名字，有一段时间这对他来说是一种负担，现在有人知道他的名字，但他以前从未见过，能先介绍一下真是太好了你自己，只有这样人们才能知道你是谁。 “你被指控了，”神父特别温和地说。 “是的，”K 说，“所以我已经被告知了。” “那么你就是我要找的人。”神父说道。 “我是监狱牧师。” “我明白了，”K 说。“我把你叫到这里来，”神父说，“因为我想和你谈谈。” “我对此一无所知，”K 说，“我来这里是为了向一位来自意大利的绅士展示这座大教堂。” “这不是重点，”神父说。 “你手里拿着什么？这是一本祈祷书吗？” “不，”K回答道，“这是一本城市旅游景点的相册。” “把它放下，”神父说。 K.用力地把它扔掉，以至于它打开并滚到地板上，撕碎了书页。 “你知道你的案子进展得很糟糕吗？”神父问道。 “我也是这么想的，”K说，“我为此付出了很多努力，但到目前为止还没有结果。虽然我还有一些文件要提交。” “你觉得事情会怎样结束？”神父问道。 “一开始我以为结局一定会很好，”K. 说，“但现在我对此产生了怀疑。我不知道它会如何结束。你知道吗？” “我不知道，”神父说，“但我担心结局会很糟糕。你被认为有罪。你的案件可能甚至不会超出小法庭的范围。至少暂时，你的罪名被证明是有罪的。” “但我没有罪，”K. 说，“这是一个错误。一个人怎么可能有罪。我们都是这里的人，彼此都是一样的。” “确实如此，”神父说，“但有罪的人就是这样说话的。” “你认为我也有罪吗？ “我对你没有任何假设，”神父说。 “我对此表示感谢，”K 说，“但参与这些诉讼的其他人都对我有异议，并认为我有罪。他们甚至影响那些没有参与的人。我的处境一直变得更加艰难。” “你不了解事实，”神父说，“判决不会突然下达，诉讼程序会一直持续到逐渐得出判决。” “我明白了，”K低着头说道。 “你接下来打算怎么处理你的案子？”神父问道。 “我还需要寻求帮助。”K. 抬起头，想看看神父对此有何看法。 “还有一些可能性我还没有利用过。” “你向不认识的人寻求太多帮助，”神父不以为然地说，“尤其是向女性寻求帮助。你真的看不出这不是你需要的帮助吗？” “有时候，事实上很多时候，我可以相信你是对的，”K. 说，“但并非总是如此。女性拥有很大的力量。如果我能说服一些我认识的女性与我一起工作，那么我一定会成功。尤其是在这样一个似乎只有追逐女人的宫廷里。让预审法官看到远处有一个女人，他就会跑过桌子和被告，以便尽快找到她。”神父把头低到了栏杆上，此时讲坛上的屋顶似乎把他压了下来。外面的天气会是什么样的可怕呢？这不再只是沉闷的白天，而是最深沉的夜晚。主窗上的彩色玻璃没有在黑暗的墙壁上发出哪怕一丝闪烁的光。而就在这个时候，袈裟男子选择将主祭坛上的蜡烛一一熄灭。 “你生我的气吗？” K问道。“也许你不知道你所服务的法庭是什么样的。”他没有收到任何答复。 “嗯，这只是我自己的经历，”K说。他的头顶上仍然一片寂静。 “我不是故意侮辱你的，”K说。这时，神父朝K尖叫道：“你看不到你前面的两步吗？”他愤怒地喊道，但这也是看到另一个人倒下时震惊不已、不由自主地发出的尖叫声。

The two men, then, remained silent for a long time. In the darkness beneath him, the priest could not possibly have seen K. distinctly, although K. was able to see him clearly by the light of the little lamp. Why did the priest not come down? He had not given a sermon, he had only told K. a few things which, if he followed them closely, would probably cause him more harm than good. But the priest certainly seemed to mean well, it might even be possible, if he would come down and cooperate with him, it might even be possible for him to obtain some acceptable piece of advice that could make all the difference, it might, for instance, be able to show him not so much to influence the proceedings but how to break free of them, how to evade them, how to live away from them. K. had to admit that this was something he had had on his mind quite a lot of late. If the priest knew of such a possibility he might, if K. asked him, let him know about it, even though he was part of the court himself and even though, when K. had criticised the court, he had held down his gentle nature and actually shouted at K.
随后，两人沉默良久。在身下的黑暗中，神父不可能看清K.，尽管K.借着小灯的光能看清他。神父怎么还不下来？他没有布道，他只告诉了K一些事情，如果他密切关注这些事情，可能会给他带来更多的伤害而不是好处。但神父的用意似乎确实是好的，甚至有可能，如果他愿意下来与他合作，甚至有可能获得一些可以接受的建议，这可能会带来很大的不同，这可能，对于例如，能够向他展示与其说是影响事情的进程，不如说是告诉他如何摆脱它们，如何逃避它们，如何远离它们而生活。 K.不得不承认，这是他最近一直在想的事情。如果神父知道这种可能性，如果 K. 询问他，他可能会让他知道，即使他本人也是法庭的一部分，即使当 K. 批评法庭时，他也压低了他的温柔。大自然并实际上对K大喊大叫。

“Would you not like to come down here?” asked K. “If you’re not going to give a sermon come down here with me.” “Now I can come down,” said the priest, perhaps he regretted having shouted at K. As he took down the lamp from its hook he said, “to start off with I had to speak to you from a distance. Otherwise I’m too easily influenced and forget my duty.”
“你不想到这里来吗？” K问道。“如果你不打算布道，就跟我到这里来吧。” “现在我可以下来了，”神父说，也许他后悔对K大喊大叫。当他从钩子上取下灯时，他说：“首先，我必须从远处和你说话。否则我太容易受到影响而忘记自己的职责。”

K. waited for him at the foot of the steps. While he was still on one of the higher steps as he came down them the priest reached out his hand for K. to shake. “Can you spare me a little of your time?” asked K. “As much time as you need,” said the priest, and passed him the little lamp for him to carry. Even at close distance the priest did not lose a certain solemnity that seemed to be part of his character. “You are very friendly towards me,” said K., as they walked up and down beside each other in the darkness of one of the side naves. “That makes you an exception among all those who belong to the court. I can trust you more than any of the others I’ve seen. I can speak openly with you.” “Don’t fool yourself,” said the priest. “How would I be fooling myself?” asked K. “You fool yourself in the court,” said the priest, “it talks about this self-deceit in the opening paragraphs to the law. In front of the law there is a doorkeeper. A man from the countryside comes up to the door and asks for entry. But the doorkeeper says he can’t let him in to the law right now. The man thinks about this, and then he asks if he’ll be able to go in later on. ‘That’s possible,’ says the doorkeeper, ‘but not now’. The gateway to the law is open as it always is, and the doorkeeper has stepped to one side, so the man bends over to try and see in. When the doorkeeper notices this he laughs and says, ‘If you’re tempted give it a try, try and go in even though I say you can’t. Careful though: I’m powerful. And I’m only the lowliest of all the doormen. But there’s a doorkeeper for each of the rooms and each of them is more powerful than the last. It’s more than I can stand just to look at the third one.’ The man from the country had not expected difficulties like this, the law was supposed to be accessible for anyone at any time, he thinks, but now he looks more closely at the doorkeeper in his fur coat, sees his big hooked nose, his long thin tartar-beard, and he decides it’s better to wait until he has permission to enter. The doorkeeper gives him a stool and lets him sit down to one side of the gate. He sits there for days and years. He tries to be allowed in time and again and tires the doorkeeper with his requests. The doorkeeper often questions him, asking about where he’s from and many other things, but these are disinterested questions such as great men ask, and he always ends up by telling him he still can’t let him in. The man had come well equipped for his journey, and uses everything, however valuable, to bribe the doorkeeper. He accepts everything, but as he does so he says, ‘I’ll only accept this so that you don’t think there’s anything you’ve failed to do’. Over many years, the man watches the doorkeeper almost without a break. He forgets about the other doormen, and begins to think this one is the only thing stopping him from gaining access to the law. Over the first few years he curses his unhappy condition out loud, but later, as he becomes old, he just grumbles to himself. He becomes senile, and as he has come to know even the fleas in the doorkeeper’s fur collar over the years that he has been studying him he even asks them to help him and change the doorkeeper’s mind. Finally his eyes grow dim, and he no longer knows whether it’s really getting darker or just his eyes that are deceiving him. But he seems now to see an inextinguishable light begin to shine from the darkness behind the door. He doesn’t have long to live now. Just before he dies, he brings together all his experience from all this time into one question which he has still never put to the doorkeeper. He beckons to him, as he’s no longer able to raise his stiff body. The doorkeeper has to bend over deeply as the difference in their sizes has changed very much to the disadvantage of the man. ‘What is it you want to know now?’ asks the doorkeeper, ‘You’re insatiable.’ ‘Everyone wants access to the law,’ says the man, ‘how come, over all these years, noone but me has asked to be let in?’ The doorkeeper can see the man’s come to his end, his hearing has faded, and so, so that he can be heard, he shouts to him: ‘Nobody else could have got in this way, as this entrance was meant only for you. Now I’ll go and close it’.”
K.在台阶下等他。当他走下台阶时，他仍在较高的台阶上，牧师伸出手与 K 握手。 “你能抽出一点时间给我吗？” K问道。“你需要多久就多久。”神父说着，把小灯递给他，让他拿着。即使距离很近，神父也没有失去某种庄严，这似乎是他性格的一部分。 “你对我非常友好，”K.一边说，一边在侧殿的黑暗中并肩走来走去。 “这使你成为法庭所有成员中的一个例外。我比我见过的任何人都更信任你。我可以开诚布公地跟你说话。” “别欺骗自己了，”神父说。 “我怎么会欺骗自己呢？” “你在法庭上欺骗自己，”牧师说，“法律的开头几段谈到了这种自欺欺人。法前有门卫。一个来自乡下的男人走到门口要求进入。但看门人说现在不能让他进入法律。男人想了想，就问一会儿能不能进去。 “这是可能的，”门卫说，“但现在不行。”通往法律的大门一如既往地敞开着，守门人已走到一侧，于是该男子弯下腰试图进去。当守门人注意到这一点时，他笑着说：“如果你想的话，就给它吧。”尝试一下，尝试进去，尽管我说你不能。但要小心：我很强大。而我只是所有门卫中地位最低的一个。但每个房间都有一个看门人，而且每个房间都比前一个更强大。仅仅看第三个就已经超出了我的承受能力。” 这个乡下人没想到会遇到这样的困难，他想，法律应该是任何人在任何时候都可以接触到的，但现在他更仔细地看着穿着皮大衣的门卫，看到他的大鹰钩鼻，他的脸。他留着又长又细的鞑靼胡子，他决定最好等到获得许可后再进去。看门人给了他一张凳子，让他坐在门的一侧。他坐在那里几天甚至几年。他一次又一次地试图得到允许，但他的要求却让门卫感到厌烦。守门人经常问他，问他从哪里来，还有很多其他的事情，但这些都是伟人问的无私的问题，他总是以告诉他仍然不能让他进来。这个人来的时候装备精良。为了他的旅程，他用一切东西，无论多么有价值的东西，来贿赂看门人。他接受一切，但当他这样做时他说，“我只会接受这一点，这样你就不会认为有什么事情是你做不到的”。多年来，该男子几乎不间断地注视着门卫。他忘记了其他门卫，并开始认为这是阻止他诉诸法律的唯一因素。最初几年，他大声咒骂自己的不幸处境，但后来，随着年龄的增长，他只是自言自语。他变得衰老了，多年来他一直在研究他，他甚至认识了看门人毛领里的跳蚤，他甚至请求他们帮助他，改变看门人的想法。终于，他的眼睛变得暗淡起来，他已经不知道是真的变黑了，还是只是他的眼睛欺骗了他。但他现在似乎看到一道不灭的光芒从门后的黑暗中开始闪耀。他现在活不了多久了。 就在他去世之前，他将自己一直以来的所有经验汇总成一个问题，但他至今从未向门卫提出过。他向他招手，因为他已经无法抬起僵硬的身体了。守门人不得不深深地弯下腰，因为他们的体型差异太大，对男人不利。 “你现在想知道什么？”守门人问道，“你真是贪得无厌。”“每个人都想诉诸法律，”那人说，“为什么这么多年，除了我之外，没有人要求这样做”。可以进去吗？”看门人看到这个人已经走到了尽头，他的听力已经衰退，所以，为了让他听到他的声音，他对他喊道：“没有其他人可以从这里进来，因为这个入口是只适合你。现在我去把它关掉’。”

“So the doorkeeper cheated the man,” said K. immediately, who had been captivated by the story. “Don’t be too quick,” said the priest, “don’t take somebody else’s opinion without checking it. I told you the story exactly as it was written. There’s nothing in there about cheating.” “But it’s quite clear,” said K., “and your first interpretation of it was quite correct. The doorkeeper gave him the information that would release him only when it could be of no more use.” “He didn’t ask him before that,” said the priest, “and don’t forget he was only a doorkeeper, and as doorkeeper he did his duty.” “What makes you think he did his duty?” asked K., “He didn’t. It might have been his duty to keep everyone else away, but this man is who the door was intended for and he ought to have let him in.” “You’re not paying enough attention to what was written and you’re changing the story,” said the priest. “According to the story, there are two important things that the doorkeeper explains about access to the law, one at the beginning, one at the end. At one place he says he can’t allow him in now, and at the other he says this entrance was intended for him alone. If one of the statements contradicted the other you would be right and the doorkeeper would have cheated the man from the country. But there is no contradiction. On the contrary, the first statement even hints at the second. You could almost say the doorkeeper went beyond his duty in that he offered the man some prospect of being admitted in the future. Throughout the story, his duty seems to have been merely to turn the man away, and there are many commentators who are surprised that the doorkeeper offered this hint at all, as he seems to love exactitude and keeps strict guard over his position. He stays at his post for many years and doesn’t close the gate until the very end, he’s very conscious of the importance of his service, as he says, ‘I’m powerful,’ he has respect for his superiors, as he says, ‘I’m only the lowliest of the doormen’, he’s not talkative, as through all these years the only questions he asks are ‘disinterested’, he’s not corruptible, as when he’s offered a gift he says, ‘I’ll only accept this so that you don’t think there’s anything you’ve failed to do,’ as far as fulfilling his duty goes he can be neither ruffled nor begged, as it says about the man that, ‘he tires the doorkeeper with his requests’, even his external appearance suggests a pedantic character, the big hooked nose and the long, thin, black tartar-beard. How could any doorkeeper be more faithful to his duty? But in the doorkeeper’s character there are also other features which might be very useful for those who seek entry to the law, and when he hinted at some possibility in the future it always seemed to make it clear that he might even go beyond his duty. There’s no denying he’s a little simple minded, and that makes him a little conceited. Even if all he said about his power and the power of the other doorkeepers and how not even he could bear the sight of them I say even if all these assertions are right, the way he makes them shows that he’s too simple and arrogant to understand properly. The commentators say about this that, ‘correct understanding of a matter and a misunderstanding of the same matter are not mutually exclusive’. Whether they’re right or not, you have to concede that his simplicity and arrogance, however little they show, do weaken his function of guarding the entrance, they are defects in the doorkeeper’s character. You also have to consider that the doorkeeper seems to be friendly by nature, he isn’t always just an official. He makes a joke right at the beginning, in that he invites the man to enter at the same time as maintaining the ban on his entering, and then he doesn’t send him away but gives him, as it says in the text, a stool to sit on and lets him stay by the side of the door. The patience with which he puts up with the man’s requests through all these years, the little questioning sessions, accepting the gifts, his politeness when he puts up with the man cursing his fate even though it was the doorkeeper who caused that fate all these things seem to want to arouse our sympathy. Not every doorkeeper would have behaved in the same way. And finally, he lets the man beckon him and he bends deep down to him so that he can put his last question. There’s no more than some slight impatience the doorkeeper knows everything’s come to its end shown in the words, ‘You’re insatiable’. There are many commentators who go even further in explaining it in this way and think the words, ‘you’re insatiable’ are an expression of friendly admiration, albeit with some condescension. However you look at it the figure of the doorkeeper comes out differently from how you might think.” “You know the story better than I do and you’ve known it for longer,” said K. They were silent for a while. And then K. said, “So you think the man was not cheated, do you?” “Don’t get me wrong,” said the priest, “I’m just pointing out the different opinions about it. You shouldn’t pay too much attention to people’s opinions. The text cannot be altered, and the various opinions are often no more than an expression of despair over it. There’s even one opinion which says it’s the doorkeeper who’s been cheated.” “That does seem to take things too far,” said K. “How can they argue the doorkeeper has been cheated?” “Their argument,” answered the priest, “is based on the simplicity of the doorkeeper. They say the doorkeeper doesn’t know the inside of the law, only the way into it where he just walks up and down. They see his ideas of what’s inside the law as rather childish, and suppose he’s afraid himself of what he wants to make the man frightened of. Yes, he’s more afraid of it than the man, as the man wants nothing but to go inside the law, even after he’s heard about the terrible doormen there, in contrast to the doorkeeper who doesn’t want to go in, or at least we don’t hear anything about it. On the other hand, there are those who say he must have already been inside the law as he has been taken on into its service and that could only have been done inside. That can be countered by supposing he could have been given the job of doorkeeper by somebody calling out from inside, and that he can’t have gone very far inside as he couldn’t bear the sight of the third doorkeeper. Nor, through all those years, does the story say the doorkeeper told the man anything about the inside, other than his comment about the other doorkeepers. He could have been forbidden to do so, but he hasn’t said anything about that either. All this seems to show he doesn’t know anything about what the inside looks like or what it means, and that that’s why he’s being deceived. But he’s also being deceived by the man from the country as he’s this man’s subordinate and doesn’t know it. There’s a lot to indicate that he treats the man as his subordinate, I expect you remember, but those who hold this view would say it’s very clear that he really is his subordinate. Above all, the free man is superior to the man who has to serve another. Now, the man really is free, he can go wherever he wants, the only thing forbidden to him is entry into the law and, what’s more, there’s only one man forbidding him to do so the doorkeeper. If he takes the stool and sits down beside the door and stays there all his life he does this of his own free will, there’s nothing in the story to say he was forced to do it. On the other hand, the doorkeeper is kept to his post by his employment, he’s not allowed to go away from it and it seems he’s not allowed to go inside either, not even if he wanted to. Also, although he’s in the service of the law he’s only there for this one entrance, therefore he’s there only in the service of this one man who the door’s intended for. This is another way in which he’s his subordinate. We can take it that he’s been performing this somewhat empty service for many years, through the whole of a man’s life, as it says that a man will come, that means someone old enough to be a man. That means the doorkeeper will have to wait a long time before his function is fulfilled, he will have to wait for as long as the man liked, who came to the door of his own free will. Even the end of the doorkeeper’s service is determined by when the man’s life ends, so the doorkeeper remains his subordinate right to the end. And it’s pointed out repeatedly that the doorkeeper seems to know nothing of any of this, although this is not seen as anything remarkable, as those who hold this view see the doorkeeper as deluded in a way that’s far worse, a way that’s to do with his service. At the end, speaking about the entrance he says, ‘Now I’ll go and close it’, although at the beginning of the story it says the door to the law is open as it always is, but if it’s always open always that means it’s open independently of the lifespan of the man it’s intended for, and not even the doorkeeper will be able to close it. There are various opinions about this, some say the doorkeeper was only answering a question or showing his devotion to duty or, just when the man was in his last moments, the doorkeeper wanted to cause him regret and sorrow. There are many who agree that he wouldn’t be able to close the door. They even believe, at the end at least, the doorkeeper is aware, deep down, that he’s the man’s subordinate, as the man sees the light that shines out of the entry to the law whereas the doorkeeper would probably have his back to it and says nothing at all to show there’s been any change.” “That is well substantiated,” said K., who had been repeating some parts of the priest’s explanation to himself in a whisper. “It is well substantiated, and now I too think the doorkeeper must have been deceived. Although that does not mean I’ve abandoned what I thought earlier as the two versions are, to some extent, not incompatible. It’s not clear whether the doorkeeper sees clearly or is deceived. I said the man had been cheated. If the doorkeeper understands clearly, then there could be some doubt about it, but if the doorkeeper has been deceived then the man is bound to believe the same thing. That would mean the doorkeeper is not a cheat but so simple-minded that he ought to be dismissed from his job immediately; if the doorkeeper is mistaken it will do him no harm but the man will be harmed immensely.” “There you’ve found another opinion,” said the priest, “as there are many who say the story doesn’t give anyone the right to judge the doorkeeper. However he might seem to us he is still in the service of the law, so he belongs to the law, so he’s beyond what man has a right to judge. In this case we can’t believe the doorkeeper is the man’s subordinate. Even if he has to stay at the entrance into the law his service makes him incomparably more than if he lived freely in the world. The man has come to the law for the first time and the doorkeeper is already there. He’s been given his position by the law, to doubt his worth would be to doubt the law.” “I can’t say I’m in complete agreement with this view,” said K. shaking his head, “as if you accept it you’ll have to accept that everything said by the doorkeeper is true. But you’ve already explained very fully that that’s not possible.” “No,” said the priest, “you don’t need to accept everything as true, you only have to accept it as necessary.” “Depressing view,” said K. “The lie made into the rule of the world.”
“所以看门人欺骗了那个人，”被这个故事迷住了的K立即说道。 “别操之过急，”神父说，“不要在没有核实的情况下就采纳别人的意见。我原原本本地告诉了你这个故事。里面没有任何关于作弊的内容。” “但这很清楚，”K. 说，“你对它的第一个解释是非常正确的。守门人给了他信息，只有当信息不再有用时才会释放他。” “他之前没有问过他，”神父说道，“别忘了他只是一个看门人，作为看门人他尽了自己的职责。” “你凭什么认为他履行了自己的职责？” K问道：“他没有。”也许他有责任让其他人远离，但这个人就是这扇门的目的，他应该让他进来。” “你没有对所写的内容给予足够的重视，你正在改变故事，”牧师说。 “根据这个故事，看门人解释了有关法律的两件重要的事情，一件在开始，一件在最后。在一个地方他说现在不能让他进去，而在另一个地方他又说这个入口是专为他一个人设计的。如果其中一种说法与另一种说法相矛盾，那么你就是对的，看门人就会欺骗那个来自乡下的人。但这并不矛盾。相反，第一个陈述甚至暗示了第二个陈述。你几乎可以说，看门人超越了他的职责，因为他为这名男子提供了未来被录取的机会。在整个故事中，他的职责似乎只是将那个人赶走，许多评论员对守门人提出这一暗示感到惊讶，因为他似乎喜欢精确，并严格保护自己的位置。 他在岗位上坚守多年，直到最后才关门，他非常清楚自己服务的重要性，正如他所说，“我很强大”，他尊重上级，因为他说，“我只是最低级的门卫”，他不爱说话，因为这些年来他问的唯一问题都是“无私的”，他并不腐败，因为当他收到礼物时，他说，“我会只要接受这一点，这样你就不会认为自己有什么事情没做。”就履行职责而言，他既不会被激怒，也不会被乞求，正如关于这个人的说法，“他用他的门让看门人感到疲倦”。就连他的外表也显示出一种迂腐的性格，大鹰钩鼻和又长又细的黑色鞑靼胡子。门卫怎能更忠实于自己的职责呢？但看门人的性格中还有其他特征，对于那些寻求进入法律的人来说可能非常有用，当他暗示未来的某种可能性时，似乎总是清楚地表明他甚至可能超越他的职责。不可否认，他头脑有点简单，这让他有点自负。即使他所说的一切都是关于他的力量和其他守门人的力量，以及如何连他都无法忍受看到他们我说即使所有这些断言都是正确的，但他的方式表明他太简单和傲慢，无法理解适当地。对此，评论家说，“对同一件事的正确认识和对同一件事的误解并不相互排斥”。不管他们说得对不对，你都得承认，他的单纯和傲慢，无论表现得多么少，都削弱了他看守入口的功能，这是看门人性格的缺陷。 你还必须考虑到，看门人似乎生性友善，他并不总是只是一个官员。他一开始就开了个玩笑，在维持禁止进入的同时邀请该男子进入，然后他没有将他送走，而是如文中所说，给了他一个凳子可以坐，让他站在门边。这些年来他对这个男人的要求的耐心，小小的询问，接受礼物，当他忍受这个男人诅咒他的命运时他的礼貌，尽管是门卫造成了所有这些事情似乎是想引起我们的同情。并非每个看门人都会以同样的方式行事。最后，他让那个人向他招手，他向他深深弯下腰，以便他可以提出最后一个问题。守门人心里只有一丝不耐烦，他知道一切都已经结束了，这句话就体现在“你不知足”这句话中。有许多评论家以这种方式进一步解释，认为“你不知足”这句话是一种友好的钦佩的表达，尽管带有一些居高临下的态度。不管你怎么看，守门人的形象都与你想象的不同。” K说：“你比我更了解这个故事，而且你知道它的时间更长。”他们沉默了一会儿。然后K.说：“那么你认为这个人没有被骗，是吗？” “别误会，”神父说，“我只是指出对此的不同看法。你不应该太在意别人的意见。文本无法更改，各种意见往往只是表达对它的绝望。甚至有一种观点认为，是看门人被骗了。” “这似乎太过分了，”K 说，“他们怎么能说看门人被骗了呢？ “他们的论点，”神父回答道，“是基于看门人的简单性。他们说，看门人不知道法律的内幕，只知道他只是走来走去的进入法律的方式。他们认为他对法律内容的想法相当幼稚，并认为他害怕自己想让这个人害怕的东西。是的，他比那个人更害怕它，因为那个人只想遵守法律，即使在他听说了那里可怕的门卫之后，与不想进去的门卫形成鲜明对比，或者至少我们没有听到任何有关此事的消息。另一方面，也有人说他一定已经触犯了法律，因为他已经被纳入法律范围，而这只能在法律范围内进行。可以反驳的说法是，假设有人从里面呼唤他来担任看门人的工作，并且他不能走得太远，因为他无法忍受看到第三个看门人。多年来，这个故事也没有说守门人除了对其他守门人的评论之外，没有告诉该男子任何有关内部的事情。他本可以被禁止这样做，但他也没有对此发表任何言论。这一切似乎表明他根本不知道里面是什么样子，也不知道它意味着什么，这就是他被欺骗的原因。但他也被这个乡下人欺骗了，因为他是这个人的下属而不自知。有很多迹象表明他把他当作他的下属，我希望你记得，但持这种观点的人会说，很明显他确实是他的下属。 最重要的是，自由人优于必须为他人服务的人。现在，这个人真的自由了，他可以去任何他想去的地方，唯一禁止他做的事情就是触犯法律，而且，禁止他这样做的人只有一个看门人。如果他拿起凳子坐在门边，一辈子都呆在那里，那么他是自愿这样做的，故事中没有任何地方说他是被迫这样做的。另一方面，看门人因为工作而坚守在自己的岗位上，不准离开，似乎也不准进去，即使他想进去也不行。另外，虽然他是为法律服务的，但他只是为了这个入口而存在，因此他只是为了为这扇门的目的而服务的那个人。这是他作为下属的另一种方式。我们可以认为，他多年来一直在做这种有点空洞的服务，贯穿了一个人的一生，正如它所说的，一个人会来，这意味着一个人已经足够老了，可以成为一个男人了。这意味着守门人必须等待很长一段时间才能完成他的职责，他要等多久，这个人是自愿来到门口的。甚至看门人服务的结束也是由人的生命何时结束决定的，所以看门人始终是他的从属权。人们一再指出，守门人似乎对此一无所知，尽管这并不被视为什么了不起的事情，因为持这种观点的人认为守门人以一种更糟糕的方式被欺骗了，这种方式与他的服务。 最后，谈到入口时，他说，“现在我要去关上它”​​，尽管在故事的开头它说法律之门一如既往地敞开，但如果它始终敞开，那就永远是这样。意味着它的打开与使用者的寿命无关，甚至门卫也无法关闭它。对此有多种说法，有人说看门人只是在回答一个问题或表现出他的尽职尽责，或者在该男子生命最后一刻，看门人想让他后悔和悲伤。许多人都同意他无法关上门。他们甚至相信，至少在最后，守门人内心深处意识到他是该人的下属，因为该人看到了法律入口处发出的光芒，而守门人可能会背对着它，并且根本没有说什么来表明发生了任何变化。” “这是有充分证据的。”K. 说道，他一直在低声自言自语地重复神父解释的某些部分。 “证据确凿，现在我也认为看门人一定是被骗了。但这并不意味着我放弃了我之前的想法，因为这两个版本在某种程度上并不是不兼容的。不知道看门人是看得清楚还是被骗了。我说那人被骗了。如果守门人明白的话，那么他可能会有所怀疑，但如果守门人被欺骗了，那么这个人一定会相信同样的事情。这意味着看门人不是骗子，而是头脑简单，应该立即被解雇；如果看门人犯了错误，这不会对他造成任何伤害，但这个人会受到极大的伤害。” “你发现了另一种观点，”神父说，“因为有很多人说这个故事并没有赋予任何人评判守门人的权利。然而，在我们看来，他仍然是为法律服务的，所以他属于法律，所以他超越了人类有权判断的范围。在这种情况下，我们不能相信看门人是该男子的下属。即使他必须停留在法律的入口处，他的服务使他比在世界上自由生活时更加重要。人初来乍到，看门人已经到了。他的地位是法律赋予的，怀疑他的价值就是怀疑法律。” “我不能说我完全同意这个观点，”K.摇头说道，“就好像你接受了它，你就必须接受守门人所说的一切都是真的。但你已经非常充分地解释了这是不可能的。” “不，”神父说，“你不需要接受一切都是真实的，你只需要接受它是必要的。” “令人沮丧的观点，”K 说，“谎言成为了世界的规则。”

K. said that as if it were his final word but it was not his conclusion. He was too tired to think about all the ramifications of the story, and the sort of thoughts they led him into were not familiar to him, unrealistic things, things better suited for officials of the court to discuss than for him. The simple story had lost its shape, he wanted to shake it off, and the priest who now felt quite compassionate allowed this and accepted K.’s remarks without comment, even though his view was certainly very different from K.’s.
K.这样说，仿佛这是他的最后一句话，但这并不是他的结论。他太累了，无法思考这个故事的所有后果，而他们引导他进入的那种想法对他来说并不熟悉，不切实际的事情，更适合朝廷官员讨论而不是他的事情。简单的故事已经失去了形式，他想摆脱它，现在感到颇有同情心的神父允许了这一点，并没有发表任何评论地接受了K.的言论，尽管他的观点肯定与K.的观点截然不同。

In silence, they carried on walking for some time, K. stayed close beside the priest without knowing where he was. The lamp in his hand had long since gone out. Once, just in front of him, he thought he could see the statue of a saint by the glitter of the silver on it, although it quickly disappeared back into the darkness. So that he would not remain entirely dependent on the priest, K. asked him, “We’re now near the main entrance, are we?” “No,” said the priest, “we’re a long way from it. Do you already want to go?” K. had not thought of going until then, but he immediately said, “Yes, certainly, I have to go. I’m the chief clerk in a bank and there are people waiting for me, I only came here to show a foreign business contact round the cathedral.” “Alright,” said the priest offering him his hand, “go then.” “But I can’t find my way round in this darkness by myself,” said K. “Go to your left as far as the wall,” said the priest, “then continue alongside the wall without leaving it and you’ll find a way out.” The priest had only gone a few paces from him, but K. was already shouting loudly, “Please, wait!” “I’m waiting,” said the priest. “Is there anything else you want from me?” asked K. “No,” said the priest. “You were so friendly to me earlier on,” said K., “and you explained everything, but now you abandon me as if I were nothing to you.” “You have to go,” said the priest. “Well, yes,” said K., “you need to understand that.” “First, you need to understand who I am,” said the priest. “You’re the prison chaplain,” said K., and went closer to the priest, it was not so important for him to go straight back to the bank as he had made out, he could very well stay where he was. “So that means I belong to the court,” said the priest. “So why would I want anything from you? the court doesn’t want anything from you. It accepts you when you come and it lets you go when you leave.”
他们默默地走了一段时间，K.紧贴在神父身边，不知道他在哪里。他手中的灯早已熄灭。有一次，就在他面前，他以为自己可以通过上面闪闪发光的银色看到一尊圣人雕像，尽管它很快又消失在黑暗中。为了不至于完全依赖神父，K. 问他：“我们现在已经靠近正门了，是吗？” “不，”神父说，“我们离它还很远。你已经想去了吗？” K. 直到那时才想到要去，但他立即说：“是的，当然，我必须去。我是一家银行的首席职员，还有人在等我，我来这里只是为了带外国业务联系人参观大教堂。” “好吧，”神父向他伸出手，“那就走吧。” “但是我一个人在这黑暗中找不到路，”K说。“向左走到墙边，”牧师说，“然后沿着墙继续走，不要离开它，你会发现出去的路。”神父距离他才走了几步，K.已经大声喊道：“请等一下！”神父说：“我在等。” “你还想从我这里得到什么吗？” K问道。“不，”神父说。 “你早些时候对我非常友好，”K说，“你解释了一切，但现在你抛弃了我，好像我对你来说什么都不是。” “你必须走，”神父说。 “嗯，是的，”K 说，“你需要明白这一点。” “首先，你需要了解我是谁，”神父说。 “你是监狱牧师，”K说，然后走近神父，对他来说，直接回到银行并不重要，他完全可以留在原地。 “这意味着我属于法庭，”神父说。 “那我为什么要从你这里得到什么？ 法庭不需要你任何东西。当你来的时候它接受你，当你离开的时候它放你走。”

Chapter Ten
第十章

End
结尾

The evening before K.’s thirty-first birthday it was about nine o’clock in the evening, the time when the streets were quiet two men came to where he lived. In frock coats, pale and fat, wearing top hats that looked like they could not be taken off their heads. After some brief formalities at the door of the flat when they first arrived, the same formalities were repeated at greater length at K.’s door. He had not been notified they would be coming, but K. sat in a chair near the door, dressed in black as they were, and slowly put on new gloves which stretched tightly over his fingers and behaved as if he were expecting visitors. He immediately stood up and looked at the gentlemen inquisitively. “You’ve come for me then, have you?” he asked. The gentlemen nodded, one of them indicated the other with the top hand now in his hand. K. told them he had been expecting a different visitor. He went to the window and looked once more down at the dark street. Most of the windows on the other side of the street were also dark already, many of them had the curtains closed. In one of the windows on the same floor where there was a light on, two small children could be seen playing with each other inside a playpen, unable to move from where they were, reaching out for each other with their little hands. “Some ancient, unimportant actors that’s what they’ve sent for me,” said K. to himself, and looked round once again to confirm this to himself. “They want to sort me out as cheaply as they can.” K. suddenly turned round to face the two men and asked, “What theatre do you play in?” “Theatre?” asked one of the gentlemen, turning to the other for assistance and pulling in the corners of his mouth. The other made a gesture like someone who was dumb, as if he were struggling with some organism causing him trouble. “You’re not properly prepared to answer questions,” said K. and went to fetch his hat.
K.三十一岁生日的前一天晚上，大约晚上九点钟，街道上很安静，两个男人来到了他住的地方。穿着礼服大衣，脸色苍白，肥胖，戴着高帽子，看上去就像是摘不下来一样。他们刚到达公寓门口时，先行了一些简短的手续，然后又在 K. 的门口重复了更详细的手续。他并没有被告知他们会来，但K.坐在靠近门的椅子上，穿着黑衣服，慢慢地戴上新手套，紧紧地遮住手指，表现得好像在等待访客。他立刻站了起来，好奇地看着几位先生。 “那你是来找我的吧？”他问。两位先生点点头，其中一位用现在握在上面的那只手示意另一位。 K. 告诉他们，他一直在等待一位不同的访客。他走到窗前，再次俯视漆黑的街道。街对面的大部分窗户也已经黑了，很多窗户都拉上了窗帘。在同一层的一扇亮着灯的窗户里，可以看到两个小孩在婴儿围栏里玩耍，动弹不得，用小手互相拉扯。 “他们派来一些古老的、不重要的演员来找我。”K. 自言自语道，然后再次环顾四周，向自己证实了这一点。 “他们想尽可能便宜地解决我的问题。” K突然转过身来面对两人，问道：“你们在哪家剧院演出？” “剧院？”其中一位先生问道，他转向另一位先生寻求帮助，并拉起嘴角。 另一个人做出了一个傻子般的手势，仿佛他正在与某种给他带来麻烦的生物体作斗争。 “你还没有做好回答问题的准备。”K. 说完就去拿帽子。

As soon as they were on the stairs the gentlemen wanted to take K.’s arms, but K. said “Wait till we’re in the street, I’m not ill.” But they waited only until the front door before they took his arms in a way that K. had never experienced before. They kept their shoulders close behind his, did not turn their arms in but twisted them around the entire length of K.’s arms and took hold of his hands with a grasp that was formal, experienced and could not be resisted. K. was held stiff and upright between them, they formed now a single unit so that if any one of them had been knocked down all of them must have fallen. They formed a unit of the sort that normally can be formed only by matter that is lifeless.
一上楼梯，先生们就想挽起 K. 的手臂，但 K. 说：“等我们到了街上，我没病。”但他们只等到了前门，就以 K. 以前从未经历过的方式抓住了他的手臂。他们的肩膀紧贴在他身后，没有将手臂内翻，而是将手臂缠绕在K.的整个手臂上，并以正式、经验丰富且无法抗拒的方式握住他的双手。 K.被僵硬地直立在他们之间，他们现在形成了一个整体，因此如果他们中的任何一个被击倒，那么他们都必须倒下。它们形成了通常只能由无生命物质才能形成的那种单位。

Whenever they passed under a lamp K. tried to see his companions more clearly, as far as was possible when they were pressed so close together, as in the dim light of his room this had been hardly possible. “Maybe they’re tenors,” he thought as he saw their big double chins. The cleanliness of their faces disgusted him. He could see the hands that cleaned them, passing over the corners of their eyes, rubbing at their upper lips, scratching out the creases on those chins.
每当他们经过灯下时，K. 都试图尽可能清楚地看到他的同伴，但当他们挤得很近时，因为在他房间的昏暗灯光下，这几乎是不可能的。 “也许他们是男高音，”当他看到他们的大双下巴时，他想。他们脸上的清洁让他感到恶心。他能看到清洁他们的手，掠过他们的眼角，摩擦着他们的上唇，刮掉下巴上的皱纹。

When K. noticed that, he stopped, which meant the others had to stop too; they were at the edge of an open square, devoid of people but decorated with flower beds. “Why did they send you, of all people!” he cried out, more a shout than a question. The two gentleman clearly knew no answer to give, they waited, their free arms hanging down, like nurses when the patient needs to rest. “I will go no further,” said K. as if to see what would happen. The gentlemen did not need to make any answer, it was enough that they did not loosen their grip on K. and tried to move him on, but K. resisted them. “I’ll soon have no need of much strength, I’ll use all of it now,” he thought. He thought of the flies that tear their legs off struggling to get free of the flypaper. “These gentleman will have some hard work to do”.
当K.注意到这一点时，他停了下来，这意味着其他人也必须停下来；他们位于一个开放广场的边缘，空无一人，但装饰着花坛。 “为什么他们偏偏派你来！”他大声喊道，与其说是在问问题，倒不如说是在喊叫。两位先生显然不知道该怎么回答，他们等待着，空着的手臂垂下来，就像病人需要休息时的护士一样。 “我不会再往前走了，”K说道，仿佛想看看会发生什么。先生们不需要做出任何回答，只要他们没有松开对K.的控制并试图将他推开，但K.拒绝了他们。 “我很快就不再需要太多的力量了，我现在就用尽所有的力量，”他想。他想起那些撕断腿的苍蝇，挣扎着摆脱捕蝇纸。 “这位先生将有一些艰苦的工作要做”。

Just then, Miss Burstner came up into the square in front of them from the steps leading from a small street at a lower level. It was not certain that it was her, although the similarity was, of course, great. But it did not matter to K. whether it was certainly her anyway, he just became suddenly aware that there was no point in his resistance. There would be nothing heroic about it if he resisted, if he now caused trouble for these gentlemen, if in defending himself he sought to enjoy his last glimmer of life. He started walking, which pleased the gentlemen and some of their pleasure conveyed itself to him. Now they permitted him to decided which direction they took, and he decided to take the direction that followed the young woman in front of them, not so much because he wanted to catch up with her, nor even because he wanted to keep her in sight for as long as possible, but only so that he would not forget the reproach she represented for him. “The only thing I can do now,” he said to himself, and his thought was confirmed by the equal length of his own steps with the steps of the two others, “the only thing I can do now is keep my common sense and do what’s needed right till the end. I always wanted to go at the world and try and do too much, and even to do it for something that was not too cheap. That was wrong of me. Should I now show them I learned nothing from facing trial for a year? Should I go out like someone stupid? Should I let anyone say, after I’m gone, that at the start of the proceedings I wanted to end them, and that now that they’ve ended I want to start them again? I don’t want anyone to say that. I’m grateful they sent these unspeaking, uncomprehending men to go with me on this journey, and that it’s been left up to me to say what’s necessary”.
就在这时，伯斯特纳小姐从下层小街的台阶上来到了面前的广场。不能确定就是她，尽管相似度当然非常高。但对于K来说，这并不重要。不管怎样，这确实是她，他只是突然意识到，他的抵抗是没有意义的。如果他反抗，如果他现在给这些先生们带来麻烦，如果他为了保卫自己而试图享受生命的最后一丝曙光，那就没有什么英雄气概了。他开始走路，这让先生们很高兴，他们的一些快乐也传达给了他。现在他们允许他决定走哪个方向，他决定走前面少女的方向，倒不是因为他想追上她，也不是因为他想让她留在视线范围内。尽可能长时间，但只是为了让他不会忘记她对他的羞辱。 “我现在唯一能做的事，”他对自己说，他自己的脚步与另外两个人的脚步长度相等证实了他的想法，“我现在唯一能做的就是保持我的常识和判断力。”做需要做的事情直到最后。我总是想去看看这个世界，尝试做很多事情，甚至是为了一些不太便宜的事情。我错了。我现在应该向他们表明我在一年的审判中什么也没学到吗？我应该像个傻子一样出去吗？在我离开后，我是否应该让任何人说，在诉讼程序开始时我想结束它们，而现在它们已经结束我想再次开始它们？我不想让任何人这么说。我很感激他们派了这些不说话、不理解的人与我一起踏上这段旅程，并且由我来决定什么是必要的”。

Meanwhile, the young woman had turned off into a side street, but K. could do without her now and let his companions lead him. All three of them now, in complete agreement, went over a bridge in the light of the moon, the two gentlemen were willing to yield to each little movement made by K. as he moved slightly towards the edge and directed the group in that direction as a single unit. The moonlight glittered and quivered in the water, which divided itself around a small island covered in a densely-piled mass of foliage and trees and bushes. Beneath them, now invisible, there were gravel paths with comfortable benches where K. had stretched himself out on many summer’s days. “I didn’t actually want to stop here,” he said to his companions, shamed by their compliance with his wishes. Behind K.’s back one of them seemed to quietly criticise the other for the misunderstanding about stopping, and then they went on. The went on up through several streets where policemen were walking or standing here and there; some in the distance and then some very close. One of them with a bushy moustache, his hand on the grip of his sword, seemed to have some purpose in approaching the group, which was hardly unsuspicious. The two gentlemen stopped, the policeman seemed about to open his mouth, and then K. drove his group forcefully forward. Several times he looked back cautiously to see if the policeman was following; but when they had a corner between themselves and the policeman K. began to run, and the two gentlemen, despite being seriously short of breath, had to run with him.
与此同时，那个年轻女子已经拐进了一条小巷，但K.现在可以不用她了，让他的同伴带他走。现在，他们三人完全一致地在月光下走过一座桥，两位先生愿意屈服于K的每一个小动作，当他稍微向边缘移动并引导这群人朝那个方向走时作为一个整体。月光在水中闪闪发光，颤抖着，水在一座小岛周围分开，岛上覆盖着茂密的树叶、树木和灌木丛。在它们下面，现在已经看不见了，有一些砾石小路，上面有舒适的长凳，K.在很多个夏天都曾在上面躺过。 “我实际上不想停在这里，”他对同伴们说，他为他们遵守他的意愿而感到羞愧。其中一人在K.背后似乎在悄悄地批评另一人对停车的误会，然后又继续前行。他们继续前行，穿过几条街道，那里到处都有警察走着或站着。有些很远，有些很近。其中一个留着浓密的小胡子，手握着剑，似乎有什么目的接近这群人，这很难不让人怀疑。两位先生停了下来，警察似乎要开口，然后K.带着他的队伍强行向前走去。有几次他小心翼翼地回头看看警察是否在跟踪；但当他们之间出现一个拐角时，警察K.开始奔跑，两位先生尽管呼吸严重困难，却不得不和他一起跑。

In this way they quickly left the built up area and found themselves in the fields which, in this part of town, began almost without any transition zone. There was a quarry, empty and abandoned, near a building which was still like those in the city. Here the men stopped, perhaps because this had always been their destination or perhaps because they were too exhausted to run any further. Here they released their hold on K., who just waited in silence, and took their top hats off while they looked round the quarry and wiped the sweat off their brows with their handkerchiefs. The moonlight lay everywhere with the natural peace that is granted to no other light.
这样，他们很快就离开了建筑区，发现自己来到了田野，而在城镇的这一部分，田野几乎没有任何过渡区。有一个采石场，空荡荡的，废弃了，旁边有一座和城里的建筑一样的建筑。男人们在这里停了下来，也许是因为这里一直是他们的目的地，也许是因为他们太累了，无法再跑下去了。在这里，他们松开了对K.的控制，K.只是默默地等待着，他们摘下高顶帽子，环顾着采石场，用手帕擦了擦额上的汗水。月光洒满各处，呈现出其他光线所没有的自然宁静。

After exchanging a few courtesies about who was to carry out the next tasks the gentlemen did not seem to have been allocated specific functions one of them went to K. and took his coat, his waistcoat, and finally his shirt off him. K. made an involuntary shiver, at which the gentleman gave him a gentle, reassuring tap on the back. Then he carefully folded the things up as if they would still be needed, even if not in the near future. He did not want to expose K. to the chilly night air without moving though, so he took him under the arm and walked up and down with him a little way while the other gentleman looked round the quarry for a suitable place. When he had found it he made a sign and the other gentleman escorted him there. It was near the rockface, there was a stone lying there that had broken loose. The gentlemen sat K. down on the ground, leant him against the stone and settled his head down on the top of it. Despite all the effort they went to, and despite all the co-operation shown by K., his demeanour seemed very forced and hard to believe. So one of the gentlemen asked the other to grant him a short time while he put K. in position by himself, but even that did nothing to make it better. In the end they left K. in a position that was far from the best of the ones they had tried so far. Then one of the gentlemen opened his frock coat and from a sheath hanging on a belt stretched across his waistcoat he withdrew a long, thin, double-edged butcher’s knife which he held up in the light to test its sharpness. The repulsive courtesies began once again, one of them passed the knife over K. to the other, who then passed it back over K. to the first. K. now knew it would be his duty to take the knife as it passed from hand to hand above him and thrust it into himself. But he did not do it, instead he twisted his neck, which was still free, and looked around. He was not able to show his full worth, was not able to take all the work from the official bodies, he lacked the rest of the strength he needed and this final shortcoming was the fault of whoever had denied it to him. As he looked round, he saw the top floor of the building next to the quarry. He saw how a light flickered on and the two halves of a window opened out, somebody, made weak and thin by the height and the distance, leant suddenly far out from it and stretched his arms out even further. Who was that? A friend? A good person? Somebody who was taking part? Somebody who wanted to help? Was he alone? Was it everyone? Would anyone help? Were there objections that had been forgotten? There must have been some. The logic cannot be refuted, but someone who wants to live will not resist it. Where was the judge he’d never seen? Where was the high court he had never reached? He raised both hands and spread out all his fingers.
在就谁将执行接下来的任务进行了一些客套之后，先生们似乎没有被分配特定的职能，其中一位走到 K. 面前，脱下了他的外套、马甲，最后脱下了他的衬衫。 K.不自觉地打了个寒战，绅士轻轻地拍了拍他的背，让他放心。然后他小心翼翼地把东西折叠起来，好像它们仍然需要，即使在不久的将来不会。但他不想让K.不动而暴露在寒冷的夜晚空气中，所以他把他夹在腋下，和他一起走来走去，而另一位绅士则在采石场周围寻找合适的地方。当他找到它时，他做了一个手势，另一位绅士护送他到那里。靠近岩壁的地方，有一块已经松动的石头。先生们让 K. 坐在地上，把他靠在石头上，然后把头放在石头上。尽管他们付出了所有的努力，尽管K.表现出了所有的合作，但他的举止似乎非常强迫和难以置信。于是，其中一位先生请另一位先生给他一点时间，让他自己安排K.就位，但即使这样也无济于事。最后，他们给 K. 留下的位置与他们迄今为止尝试过的最好位置相去甚远。然后，其中一位绅士打开他的礼服大衣，从挂在背心上的腰带上的刀鞘中取出一把又长又细的双刃屠刀，他举在灯光下测试它的锋利程度。令人厌恶的礼貌再次开始，其中一个人将刀从 K. 手中递给另一个人，然后又从 K. 手中传回给第一个。 K. 现在他知道，当刀在他上方从一只手传到另一只手时，他有责任接过它，然后把它插进自己身上。但他并没有这么做，而是扭动了尚自由的脖子，环顾四周。他无法展示自己的全部价值，无法承担官方机构的所有工作，他缺乏所需的其余力量，而这最后的缺点是任何拒绝他的人的错。当他环顾四周时，他看到了采石场旁边大楼的顶层。他看到一道灯光闪烁着，一扇窗户打开了，两个半边窗户打开了，一个因高度和距离而变得虚弱和瘦弱的人突然从窗外探出很远的距离，并将双臂伸得更远。那是谁？一个朋友？一个好人？有谁参加过吗？有人想帮忙吗？他一个人吗？是所有人吗？有人会帮忙吗？是否有被遗忘的反对意见？一定有一些。这个逻辑无法反驳，但想要活下去的人是不会抗拒的。他从未见过的法官在哪里？他从未去过的高等法院在哪里？他举起双手，摊开所有的手指。

But the hands of one of the gentleman were laid on K.’s throat, while the other pushed the knife deep into his heart and twisted it there, twice. As his eyesight failed, K. saw the two gentlemen cheek by cheek, close in front of his face, watching the result. “Like a dog!” he said, it was as if the shame of it should outlive him.
但其中一位绅士的手放在了K.的喉咙上，而另一位绅士则将刀深深地插进了他的心脏，并在那儿扭了两下。由于视力衰退，K.看到两位先生脸颊挨着，紧挨着他的脸，看着结果。 “像狗一样！”他说，似乎这种耻辱应该比他更长久。