
Northanger Abbey
诺桑觉寺

By Jane Austen (1803)
作者：简·奥斯汀 (1803)

ADVERTISEMENT BY THE AUTHORESS, TO NORTHANGER ABBEY
作者为诺桑格修道院做的广告

THIS little work was finished in the year 1803, and intended for immediate publication. It was disposed of to a bookseller, it was even advertised, and why the business proceeded no farther, the author has never been able to learn. That any bookseller should think it worth-while to purchase what he did not think it worth-while to publish seems extraordinary. But with this, neither the author nor the public have any other concern than as some observation is necessary upon those parts of the work which thirteen years have made comparatively obsolete. The public are entreated to bear in mind that thirteen years have passed since it was finished, many more since it was begun, and that during that period, places, manners, books, and opinions have undergone considerable changes.
这部小作品于 1803 年完成，打算立即出版。它被卖给了一家书商，甚至还做了广告，但为什么生意不再继续进行，作者一直无法得知。任何书商都认为值得购买他认为不值得出版的书，这似乎很不寻常。但除此之外，作者和公众都没有任何其他担忧，只是需要对作品中十三年来相对过时的部分进行一些观察。恳请公众记住，自它完成以来已经过去了十三年，自它开始以来已经过去了很多年，而在此期间，地点、礼仪、书籍和观点都发生了相当大的变化。

Chapter 1
第1章

No one who had ever seen Catherine Morland in her infancy would have supposed her born to be an heroine. Her situation in life, the character of her father and mother, her own person and disposition, were all equally against her. Her father was a clergyman, without being neglected, or poor, and a very respectable man, though his name was Richard — and he had never been handsome. He had a considerable independence besides two good livings — and he was not in the least addicted to locking up his daughters. Her mother was a woman of useful plain sense, with a good temper, and, what is more remarkable, with a good constitution. She had three sons before Catherine was born; and instead of dying in bringing the latter into the world, as anybody might expect, she still lived on — lived to have six children more — to see them growing up around her, and to enjoy excellent health herself. A family of ten children will be always called a fine family, where there are heads and arms and legs enough for the number; but the Morlands had little other right to the word, for they were in general very plain, and Catherine, for many years of her life, as plain as any. She had a thin awkward figure, a sallow skin without colour, dark lank hair, and strong features — so much for her person; and not less unpropitious for heroism seemed her mind. She was fond of all boy’s plays, and greatly preferred cricket not merely to dolls, but to the more heroic enjoyments of infancy, nursing a dormouse, feeding a canary-bird, or watering a rose-bush. Indeed she had no taste for a garden; and if she gathered flowers at all, it was chiefly for the pleasure of mischief — at least so it was conjectured from her always preferring those which she was forbidden to take. Such were her propensities — her abilities were quite as extraordinary. She never could learn or understand anything before she was taught; and sometimes not even then, for she was often inattentive, and occasionally stupid. Her mother was three months in teaching her only to repeat the ‘Beggar’s Petition”; and after all, her next sister, Sally, could say it better than she did. Not that Catherine was always stupid — by no means; she learnt the fable of ‘The Hare and Many Friends’ as quickly as any girl in England. Her mother wished her to learn music; and Catherine was sure she should like it, for she was very fond of tinkling the keys of the old forlorn spinner; so, at eight years old she began. She learnt a year, and could not bear it; and Mrs. Morland, who did not insist on her daughters being accomplished in spite of incapacity or distaste, allowed her to leave off. The day which dismissed the music-master was one of the happiest of Catherine’s life. Her taste for drawing was not superior; though whenever she could obtain the outside of a letter from her mother or seize upon any other odd piece of paper, she did what she could in that way, by drawing houses and trees, hens and chickens, all very much like one another. Writing and accounts she was taught by her father; French by her mother: her proficiency in either was not remarkable, and she shirked her lessons in both whenever she could. What a strange, unaccountable character! — for with all these symptoms of profligacy at ten years old, she had neither a bad heart nor a bad temper, was seldom stubborn, scarcely ever quarrelsome, and very kind to the little ones, with few interruptions of tyranny; she was moreover noisy and wild, hated confinement and cleanliness, and loved nothing so well in the world as rolling down the green slope at the back of the house.
任何见过婴儿时期凯瑟琳·莫兰的人都不会认为她天生就是一位女英雄。她的生活处境，她父母的性格，她自己的为人和性情，都同样对她不利。她的父亲是一名牧师，没有被忽视，也没有贫穷，而且是一个非常受人尊敬的人，尽管他的名字叫理查德——而且他从来都不英俊。除了两份美好的生活之外，他还有相当大的独立性——而且他一点也不沉迷于把女儿们关起来。她的母亲是一位很有见识、脾气很好的女人，更值得注意的是，她的体质很好。在凯瑟琳出生之前，她有三个儿子。她并没有像任何人所期望的那样，在把后者带到这个世界上时死去，她仍然活了下来——又生了六个孩子——看着他们在她身边长大，并享受着极好的健康。一个家庭有十个孩子，只要有足够的头、胳膊和腿，就称为美好的家庭；但莫兰家族对这个词没有什么其他权利，因为他们总体上非常朴素，而凯瑟琳，在她一生中的许多年里，和任何人一样朴素。她身材瘦削，笨拙，皮肤蜡黄，毫无血色，黑发平直，五官轮廓分明——这对她来说实在是太好了。她的想法似乎同样不利于英雄主义。她喜欢所有男孩的戏剧，不仅比玩偶更喜欢板球，而且还比婴儿期更英雄的乐趣更喜欢，比如照顾睡鼠、喂金丝雀或给玫瑰丛浇水。事实上，她对花园没有兴趣。如果她真的采集过花的话，那主要是为了恶作剧的乐趣——至少据推测，她总是更喜欢那些被禁止采摘的花。 这就是她的倾向——她的能力也同样非凡。在有人教她之前，她永远无法学习或理解任何东西；有时即使在那时也没有，因为她经常不专心，有时甚至很愚蠢。她的母亲三个月来只教她重复“乞丐请愿”；毕竟，她的下一个妹妹莎莉比她说得更好。并不是说凯瑟琳总是愚蠢的——绝不是这样。她和英国女孩一样快地学会了“野兔和许多朋友”的寓言。她的母亲希望她学习音乐。凯瑟琳确信她会喜欢它，因为她非常喜欢敲响那台废弃的旧旋转器的钥匙。所以，她八岁时就开始了。她学了一年，实在受不了；莫兰夫人尽管无能或厌恶，但并没有坚持让女儿们有所成就，于是允许她停下来。解雇音乐大师的那天是凯瑟琳一生中最快乐的一天。她对绘画的品味并不出众。尽管每当她能从母亲那里得到一封信的外面，或者抓住任何其他奇怪的纸片时，她都会尽其所能，画出房屋和树木，母鸡和小鸡，所有这些都非常相似。她的写作和会计是由她的父亲教的。她母亲教的法语：她对这两门课的熟练程度都不高，只要有可能，她就逃避这两门课。这是一个多么奇怪、不负责任的角色啊！ ——因为她在十岁的时候就有了这些挥霍的症状，但心地善良，脾气也好，很少固执，很少吵架，对小孩子非常友善，很少有暴虐的干扰；此外，她又吵闹又狂野，讨厌禁闭和清洁，最喜欢从房子后面的绿色斜坡上滚下来。

Such was Catherine Morland at ten. At fifteen, appearances were mending; she began to curl her hair and long for balls; her complexion improved, her features were softened by plumpness and colour, her eyes gained more animation, and her figure more consequence. Her love of dirt gave way to an inclination for finery, and she grew clean as she grew smart; she had now the pleasure of sometimes hearing her father and mother remark on her personal improvement. ‘Catherine grows quite a good-looking girl — she is almost pretty today,’ were words which caught her ears now and then; and how welcome were the sounds! To look almost pretty is an acquisition of higher delight to a girl who has been looking plain the first fifteen years of her life than a beauty from her cradle can ever receive.
十岁时的凯瑟琳·莫兰就是这样。十五岁时，外表开始好转。她开始卷曲头发，渴望拥有睾丸。她的肤色改善了，她的五官因丰满和色彩而变得柔和，她的眼睛变得更有活力，她的身材也更加引人注目。她对肮脏的热爱逐渐被对华丽的追求所取代，她变得干净，也变得聪明。现在，她有时很高兴听到父母谈论她的个人进步。 “凯瑟琳长得相当漂亮了——她今天几乎很漂亮了。”这些话时不时地在她耳边响起。这些声音是多么受欢迎啊！对于一个在生命的前十五年里一直相貌平平的女孩来说，看起来近乎漂亮是一种比她摇篮里的美人所能获得的更高的快乐。

Mrs. Morland was a very good woman, and wished to see her children everything they ought to be; but her time was so much occupied in lying-in and teaching the little ones, that her elder daughters were inevitably left to shift for themselves; and it was not very wonderful that Catherine, who had by nature nothing heroic about her, should prefer cricket, baseball, riding on horseback, and running about the country at the age of fourteen, to books — or at least books of information — for, provided that nothing like useful knowledge could be gained from them, provided they were all story and no reflection, she had never any objection to books at all. But from fifteen to seventeen she was in training for a heroine; she read all such works as heroines must read to supply their memories with those quotations which are so serviceable and so soothing in the vicissitudes of their eventful lives.
莫兰太太是一个非常好的女人，她希望她的孩子们能够拥有他们应有的一切。但她的时间太多，都花在了生孩子和教导小孩子上，以至于她的大女儿们不可避免地不得不自己轮班。凯瑟琳天生没有什么英雄气概，十四岁的时候她更喜欢板球、棒球、骑马、在乡间跑步，而不是书籍——或者至少是信息书籍——，这并不是一件很奇怪的事。只要不能从中获得有用的知识，只要都是故事，没有反思，她对书从来没有任何异议。但从十五岁到十七岁，她正在接受女英雄的训练。她读了所有女主角必须读的作品，以补充她们的记忆，这些语录在她们多事的生活中如此有用和如此抚慰人心。

From Pope, she learnt to censure those who
从教皇那里，她学会了谴责那些

 “bear about the mockery of woe.’
“忍受痛苦的嘲笑。”

From Gray, that
从格雷看来，

 “Many a flower is born to blush unseen,
“许多花生来就羞红不可见，

 “And waste its fragrance on the desert air.’
“并将其香气浪费在沙漠的空气中。”

From Thompson, that —
汤普森说——

 “It is a delightful task
“这是一项令人愉快的任务

 “To teach the young idea how to shoot.’
“教年轻人如何射击。”

And from Shakespeare she gained a great store of information —
她从莎士比亚那里获得了大量的信息——

amongst the rest, that —
其中，——

 “Trifles light as air,
“琐事轻如空气，

 “Are, to the jealous, confirmation strong,
“对于嫉妒者来说，确认是强有力的，

 “As proofs of Holy Writ.’
“作为圣经的证据。”

That
那

 “The poor beetle, which we tread upon,
“我们踩到的可怜的甲虫，

 “In corporal sufferance feels a pang as great
“肉体上的痛苦与痛苦一样巨大

 “As when a giant dies.’
“就像巨人死去一样。”

And that a young woman in love always looks —
恋爱中的年轻女子总是看起来——

 “like Patience on a monument
“就像纪念碑上的耐心

 “Smiling at Grief.’
“微笑面对悲伤。”

So far her improvement was sufficient — and in many other points she came on exceedingly well; for though she could not write sonnets, she brought herself to read them; and though there seemed no chance of her throwing a whole party into raptures by a prelude on the pianoforte, of her own composition, she could listen to other people’s performance with very little fatigue. Her greatest deficiency was in the pencil — she had no notion of drawing — not enough even to attempt a sketch of her lover’s profile, that she might be detected in the design. There she fell miserably short of the true heroic height. At present she did not know her own poverty, for she had no lover to portray. She had reached the age of seventeen, without having seen one amiable youth who could call forth her sensibility, without having inspired one real passion, and without having excited even any admiration but what was very moderate and very transient. This was strange indeed! But strange things may be generally accounted for if their cause be fairly searched out. There was not one lord in the neighbourhood; no — not even a baronet. There was not one family among their acquaintance who had reared and supported a boy accidentally found at their door — not one young man whose origin was unknown. Her father had no ward, and the squire of the parish no children.
到目前为止，她的进步已经足够了——而且在许多其他方面她都表现得非常好。尽管她不会写十四行诗，但她还是愿意读它们。虽然她似乎不可能用自己创作的钢琴前奏曲让整个聚会都欣喜若狂，但她可以毫不疲劳地聆听其他人的演奏。她最大的缺陷是铅笔——她没有绘画的概念——甚至不足以尝试画出她爱人的侧面轮廓，这样她可能会在设计中被发现。在那里，她远远没有达到真正英雄的高度。目前她还不知道自己的贫穷，因为她没有爱人可以描绘。她已经十七岁了，还没有见过一个可以唤起她的感性的和蔼可亲的青年，没有激发过一种真正的激情，甚至没有激发过任何钦佩，但那是非常温和、非常短暂的。这确实很奇怪！但如果能公平地找出原因，奇怪的事情通常是可以解释的。附近没有一位领主。不——甚至连从男爵都没有。在他们的熟人中，没有一个家庭养育过一个偶然在他们家门口发现的男孩，也没有一个来历不明的年轻人。她的父亲没有受监护人，教区的乡绅也没有孩子。

But when a young lady is to be a heroine, the perverseness of forty surrounding families cannot prevent her. Something must and will happen to throw a hero in her way.
但当一位小姐要做女主角时，周围四十个家庭的乖僻也无法阻止她。一定会发生一些事情，让英雄挡在她的路上。

Mr. Allen, who owned the chief of the property about Fullerton, the village in Wiltshire where the Morlands lived, was ordered to Bath for the benefit of a gouty constitution — and his lady, a good-humoured woman, fond of Miss Morland, and probably aware that if adventures will not befall a young lady in her own village, she must seek them abroad, invited her to go with them. Mr. and Mrs. Morland were all compliance, and Catherine all happiness.
艾伦先生是威尔特郡富勒顿村（莫兰一家居住的村庄）附近地产的负责人，他因患有痛风病而被命令前往巴斯——而他的夫人，一个脾气很好的女人，喜欢莫兰小姐，她可能意识到，如果冒险不会降临在自己村子里的一位年轻女士身上，她必须去国外寻找冒险，邀请她和他们一起去。莫兰先生和夫人都很顺从，凯瑟琳也很幸福。

Chapter 2
第2章

In addition to what has been already said of Catherine Morland’s personal and mental endowments, when about to be launched into all the difficulties and dangers of a six weeks’ residence in Bath, it may be stated, for the reader’s more certain information, lest the following pages should otherwise fail of giving any idea of what her character is meant to be, that her heart was affectionate; her disposition cheerful and open, without conceit or affectation of any kind — her manners just removed from the awkwardness and shyness of a girl; her person pleasing, and, when in good looks, pretty — and her mind about as ignorant and uninformed as the female mind at seventeen usually is.
除了已经说过的凯瑟琳·莫兰的个人和精神天赋之外，当即将开始讨论在巴斯居住六周的所有困难和危险时，可以说，为了让读者获得更确定的信息，以免否则接下来的几页就无法说明她的性格意味着什么，她的心是深情的。她的性情开朗、开放，没有任何自负或矫揉造作，举止完全没有女孩子的笨拙和害羞。她的人很讨人喜欢，而且，如果长得好看的话，也很漂亮——而她的头脑却像十七岁的女性头脑一样无知、无知。

When the hour of departure drew near, the maternal anxiety of Mrs. Morland will be naturally supposed to be most severe. A thousand alarming presentiments of evil to her beloved Catherine from this terrific separation must oppress her heart with sadness, and drown her in tears for the last day or two of their being together; and advice of the most important and applicable nature must of course flow from her wise lips in their parting conference in her closet. Cautions against the violence of such noblemen and baronets as delight in forcing young ladies away to some remote farm-house, must, at such a moment, relieve the fulness of her heart. Who would not think so? But Mrs. Morland knew so little of lords and baronets, that she entertained no notion of their general mischievousness, and was wholly unsuspicious of danger to her daughter from their machinations. Her cautions were confined to the following points. ‘I beg, Catherine, you will always wrap yourself up very warm about the throat, when you come from the rooms at night; and I wish you would try to keep some account of the money you spend; I will give you this little book on purpose. ‘
当出发的时间临近时，莫兰太太的母性焦虑自然被认为是最严重的。这场可怕的分离给她心爱的凯瑟琳带来了一千种令人震惊的邪恶预感，这一定会让她的心充满悲伤，在他们在一起的最后一两天里，她会泪流满面。最重要、最适用的建议当然必须是在她衣柜里的临别会议上从她明智的嘴唇中说出的。在这样的时刻，对贵族和男爵们的暴力行为的警惕，比如以强迫年轻女士到某个偏僻的农舍为乐的行为，一定会减轻她内心的满足。谁不这么认为呢？但莫兰夫人对贵族和男爵知之甚少，因此她对他们普遍的恶作剧毫无概念，也完全没有意识到他们的阴谋对她女儿造成的危险。她的警告仅限于以下几点。 “凯瑟琳，我请求你晚上从房间出来时，一定要把自己裹得严严实实，保暖。我希望你能试着记下你花的钱；我特意给你这本小书。 '

Sally, or rather Sarah (for what young lady of common gentility will reach the age of sixteen without altering her name as far as she can?), must from situation be at this time the intimate friend and confidante of her sister. It is remarkable, however, that she neither insisted on Catherine’s writing by every post, nor exacted her promise of transmitting the character of every new acquaintance, nor a detail of every interesting conversation that Bath might produce. Everything indeed relative to this important journey was done, on the part of the Morlands, with a degree of moderation and composure, which seemed rather consistent with the common feelings of common life, than with the refined susceptibilities, the tender emotions which the first separation of a heroine from her family ought always to excite. Her father, instead of giving her an unlimited order on his banker, or even putting an hundred pounds bank-bill into her hands, gave her only ten guineas, and promised her more when she wanted it.
莎莉，或者更确切地说，莎拉（因为有哪一位举止文雅的年轻女士会在十六岁时不尽可能改变自己的名字呢？），从目前的情况来看，她一定是她姐姐的亲密朋友和红颜知己。然而，值得注意的是，她既没有坚持每一篇帖子都由凯瑟琳撰写，也没有要求她承诺传播每一个新认识的人的性格，也没有详细介绍巴斯可能产生的每一次有趣的对话。事实上，与这次重要旅程有关的一切，莫兰夫妇都以一定程度的节制和镇定的态度完成，这似乎与普通生活的共同感受相当一致，而不是与第一次分离时的精致易感性和温柔情感相一致。家庭中的女英雄应该总是令人兴奋。她的父亲没有给她无限量的银行订单，甚至没有把一百英镑的银行钞票交到她手里，而是只给了她十几尼，并在她想要的时候许诺更多。

Under these unpromising auspices, the parting took place, and the journey began. It was performed with suitable quietness and uneventful safety. Neither robbers nor tempests befriended them, nor one lucky overturn to introduce them to the hero. Nothing more alarming occurred than a fear, on Mrs. Allen’s side, of having once left her clogs behind her at an inn, and that fortunately proved to be groundless.
在这些毫无希望的主持下，离别发生了，旅程开始了。整个过程非常安静且安全。强盗和暴风雨都没有与他们成为朋友，也没有一次幸运的翻转将他们介绍给英雄。没有什么比艾伦太太担心有一次把木鞋落在旅馆里更令人震惊的了，幸运的是，事实证明这是没有根据的。

They arrived at Bath. Catherine was all eager delight — her eyes were here, there, everywhere, as they approached its fine and striking environs, and afterwards drove through those streets which conducted them to the hotel. She was come to be happy, and she felt happy already.
他们抵达巴斯。凯瑟琳非常高兴——当他们接近美丽而引人注目的环境时，她的眼睛到处看看，然后开车穿过那些引导他们到达酒店的街道。她是来幸福的，而且她已经感到幸福了。

They were soon settled in comfortable lodgings in Pulteney Street.
他们很快就在普尔特尼街舒适的住所安顿下来。

It is now expedient to give some description of Mrs. Allen, that the reader may be able to judge in what manner her actions will hereafter tend to promote the general distress of the work, and how she will, probably, contribute to reduce poor Catherine to all the desperate wretchedness of which a last volume is capable — whether by her imprudence, vulgarity, or jealousy — whether by intercepting her letters, ruining her character, or turning her out of doors.
现在有必要对艾伦夫人进行一些描述，以便读者能够判断她的行为今后将以何种方式加剧工作的普遍痛苦，以及她可能如何帮助减少可怜的凯瑟琳最后一卷可能造成的所有绝望的不幸——无论是由于她的轻率、粗俗还是嫉妒——无论是截取她的信件，毁掉她的性格，还是把她赶出家门。

Mrs. Allen was one of that numerous class of females, whose society can raise no other emotion than surprise at there being any men in the world who could like them well enough to marry them. She had neither beauty, genius, accomplishment, nor manner. The air of a gentlewoman, a great deal of quiet, inactive good temper, and a trifling turn of mind were all that could account for her being the choice of a sensible, intelligent man like Mr. Allen. In one respect she was admirably fitted to introduce a young lady into public, being as fond of going everywhere and seeing everything herself as any young lady could be. Dress was her passion. She had a most harmless delight in being fine; and our heroine’s entree into life could not take place till after three or four days had been spent in learning what was mostly worn, and her chaperone was provided with a dress of the newest fashion. Catherine too made some purchases herself, and when all these matters were arranged, the important evening came which was to usher her into the Upper Rooms. Her hair was cut and dressed by the best hand, her clothes put on with care, and both Mrs. Allen and her maid declared she looked quite as she should do. With such encouragement, Catherine hoped at least to pass uncensured through the crowd. As for admiration, it was always very welcome when it came, but she did not depend on it.
艾伦夫人是众多女性阶层中的一员，她们的社会除了惊讶世界上竟然有男人如此喜欢她们并嫁给她们之外，没有什么其他的情感。她既没有美貌，也没有才华，没有修养，也没有风度。淑女的气质，安静、不活跃的好脾气，以及一点点的心思，都可以解释她是艾伦先生这样明智、聪明的男人的选择。从某个方面来说，她非常适合将一位年轻女士介绍给公众，因为她像任何一位年轻女士一样喜欢到处走走，亲眼目睹一切。着装是她的爱好。她对自己的健康感到一种无害的快乐。我们的女主人公花了三四天时间学习最常穿的衣服，然后为她的伴侣提供了一件最新时尚的衣服，才开始步入人生。凯瑟琳自己也买了一些东西，当所有这些事情都安排妥当后，重要的夜晚到来了，她将进入上层房间。她的头发是由最好的人修剪和打理的，她的衣服也经过精心穿着，艾伦夫人和她的女仆都宣称她看起来很正常。有了这样的鼓励，凯瑟琳至少希望能够不受谴责地穿过人群。至于钦佩，来的时候总是很受欢迎，但她并不依赖它。

Mrs. Allen was so long in dressing that they did not enter the ballroom till late. The season was full, the room crowded, and the two ladies squeezed in as well as they could. As for Mr. Allen, he repaired directly to the card-room, and left them to enjoy a mob by themselves. With more care for the safety of her new gown than for the comfort of her protegee, Mrs. Allen made her way through the throng of men by the door, as swiftly as the necessary caution would allow; Catherine, however, kept close at her side, and linked her arm too firmly within her friend’s to be torn asunder by any common effort of a struggling assembly. But to her utter amazement she found that to proceed along the room was by no means the way to disengage themselves from the crowd; it seemed rather to increase as they went on, whereas she had imagined that when once fairly within the door, they should easily find seats and be able to watch the dances with perfect convenience. But this was far from being the case, and though by unwearied diligence they gained even the top of the room, their situation was just the same; they saw nothing of the dancers but the high feathers of some of the ladies. Still they moved on — something better was yet in view; and by a continued exertion of strength and ingenuity they found themselves at last in the passage behind the highest bench. Here there was something less of crowd than below; and hence Miss Morland had a comprehensive view of all the company beneath her, and of all the dangers of her late passage through them. It was a splendid sight, and she began, for the first time that evening, to feel herself at a ball: she longed to dance, but she had not an acquaintance in the room. Mrs. Allen did all that she could do in such a case by saying very placidly, every now and then, ‘I wish you could dance, my dear — I wish you could get a partner.’ For some time her young friend felt obliged to her for these wishes; but they were repeated so often, and proved so totally ineffectual, that Catherine grew tired at last, and would thank her no more.
艾伦夫人穿衣服花了很长时间，他们直到很晚才进入舞厅。季节已满，房间里很拥挤，两位女士尽可能地挤进去。至于艾伦先生，则直接前往棋牌室，让他们自己去享受暴民的乐趣。艾伦夫人更关心她的新礼服的安全，而不是她的门生的舒适，她在必要的谨慎允许的范围内尽可能快地穿过门边的人群。然而，凯瑟琳一直紧贴在她身边，并将她的手臂与她朋友的手臂牢牢地连接在一起，以至于任何挣扎的集会的共同努力都不会被撕裂。但令她大吃一惊的是，她发现沿着房间前进绝不是脱离人群的方法；她只能沿着房间走。随着他们继续前行，这种感觉似乎越来越强烈，而她原本以为，只要一进门，他们就应该很容易找到座位，并且能够非常方便地观看舞蹈。但事实并非如此，尽管他们通过不懈的努力，甚至登上了房间的顶层，但他们的处境却是一样的。除了一些女士高高的羽毛外，他们什么也没看到。但他们仍然继续前进——更好的事情还在眼前；经过不断的努力和聪明才智，他们终于发现自己来到了最高的长凳后面的通道。这里的人群比下面少一些。因此，莫兰小姐对她手下的所有同伴以及她最近经历的所有危险都有一个全面的了解。那景象真是太棒了，那天晚上她第一次感觉到自己身处舞会：她渴望跳舞，但房间里没有她的熟人。太太。 在这种情况下，艾伦做了她能做的一切，时不时地非常平静地说：“我希望你能跳舞，亲爱的——我希望你能找到一个舞伴。”有一段时间，她年轻的朋友对她感到感激为了这些愿望；但这些话重复了太多次，而且完全没有效果，凯瑟琳终于厌倦了，再也不会感谢她了。

They were not long able, however, to enjoy the repose of the eminence they had so laboriously gained. Everybody was shortly in motion for tea, and they must squeeze out like the rest. Catherine began to feel something of disappointment — she was tired of being continually pressed against by people, the generality of whose faces possessed nothing to interest, and with all of whom she was so wholly unacquainted that she could not relieve the irksomeness of imprisonment by the exchange of a syllable with any of her fellow captives; and when at last arrived in the tea-room, she felt yet more the awkwardness of having no party to join, no acquaintance to claim, no gentleman to assist them. They saw nothing of Mr. Allen; and after looking about them in vain for a more eligible situation, were obliged to sit down at the end of a table, at which a large party were already placed, without having anything to do there, or anybody to speak to, except each other.
然而，他们没能多久享受到辛苦获得的显赫地位的安宁。每个人都忙着去喝茶，他们必须像其他人一样挤出去。凯瑟琳开始感到有些失望——她厌倦了不断地被人们压着，这些人的面孔泛泛而谈，毫无兴趣，而且她对所有这些人都完全不熟悉，以至于她无法缓解被囚禁的烦恼。与其他俘虏交换一个音节；终于到了茶室，她更感到无朋自友、无熟人可认、无绅士相助的尴尬。他们没有看到艾伦先生。在徒劳地寻找更合适的情况后，我们不得不坐在一张桌子的尽头，桌子上已经摆了一大群人，没有任何事情可做，也没有任何人可以交谈，除了彼此。

Mrs. Allen congratulated herself, as soon as they were seated, on having preserved her gown from injury. ‘It would have been very shocking to have it torn,’ said she, ‘would not it? It is such a delicate muslin. For my part I have not seen anything I like so well in the whole room, I assure you.’
他们一坐下，艾伦夫人就庆幸自己的礼服没有受伤。 “如果它被撕破了，那就太令人震惊了，”她说，“不是吗？它是如此精致的平纹细布。就我而言，我向你保证，整个房间里我没有看到任何我如此喜欢的东西。

‘How uncomfortable it is,’ whispered Catherine, ‘not to have a single acquaintance here!’
“这真是太不舒服了，”凯瑟琳低声说道，“这里没有一个熟人！”

‘Yes, my dear,’ replied Mrs. Allen, with perfect serenity, ‘it is very uncomfortable indeed.’
“是的，亲爱的，”艾伦太太平静地回答，“这确实很不舒服。”

‘What shall we do? The gentlemen and ladies at this table look as if they wondered why we came here — we seem forcing ourselves into their party.’
‘我们该怎么办？这张桌子上的先生们和女士们看起来好像想知道我们为什么来这里——我们似乎强迫自己加入他们的聚会。

‘Aye, so we do. That is very disagreeable. I wish we had a large acquaintance here.’
是的，我们就是这么做的。这是非常不愉快的。我希望我们在这里有一个熟人。

‘I wish we had any — it would be somebody to go to.’
“我希望我们能有一个——那就是一个可以去找的人。”

‘Very true, my dear; and if we knew anybody we would join them directly. The Skinners were here last year — I wish they were here now.’
“非常正确，亲爱的；如果我们认识任何人，我们会直接加入他们。斯金纳一家去年就来过这里——我希望他们现在也在这里。”

‘Had not we better go away as it is? Here are no tea-things for us, you see.’
“我们最好就这样走开吗？”你看，这里没有给我们喝茶的东西。

‘No more there are, indeed. How very provoking! But I think we had better sit still, for one gets so tumbled in such a crowd! How is my head, my dear? Somebody gave me a push that has hurt it, I am afraid.’
“确实，已经没有了。”多么令人兴奋啊！但我想我们最好还是坐着不动，因为在这样的人群中会摔倒！亲爱的，我的头怎么样？恐怕有人推了我一下，导致它受伤。”

‘No, indeed, it looks very nice. But, dear Mrs. Allen, are you sure there is nobody you know in all this multitude of people? I think you must know somebody.’
‘不，确实，它看起来非常好。但是，亲爱的艾伦夫人，您确定在这么多人中没有一个是您认识的吗？我想你一定认识某个人。

‘I don’t, upon my word — I wish I did. I wish I had a large acquaintance here with all my heart, and then I should get you a partner. I should be so glad to have you dance. There goes a strange-looking woman! What an odd gown she has got on! How old-fashioned it is! Look at the back.’
“说实话，我没有——我希望我有。我真心希望能在这里结识一个大朋友，然后我就应该给你找一个伙伴。我应该很高兴有你跳舞。一个长相奇怪的女人走了过来！她穿的礼服多奇怪啊！这是多么老套啊！看看后面。

After some time they received an offer of tea from one of their neighbours; it was thankfully accepted, and this introduced a light conversation with the gentleman who offered it, which was the only time that anybody spoke to them during the evening, till they were discovered and joined by Mr. Allen when the dance was over.
一段时间后，他们收到了一位邻居提供的茶。值得庆幸的是，它被接受了，这引发了与提供它的绅士的轻松交谈，这是当晚有人与他们交谈的唯一一次，直到舞会结束时艾伦先生发现并加入了他们。

‘Well, Miss Morland,’ said he, directly, ‘I hope you have had an agreeable ball.’
“好吧，莫兰小姐，”他直接说道，“我希望你度过了一个愉快的舞会。”

‘Very agreeable indeed,’ she replied, vainly endeavouring to hide a great yawn.
“确实很舒服，”她回答道，徒劳地试图掩饰打哈欠的样子。

‘I wish she had been able to dance,’ said his wife; ‘I wish we could have got a partner for her. I have been saying how glad I should be if the Skinners were here this winter instead of last; or if the Parrys had come, as they talked of once, she might have danced with George Parry. I am so sorry she has not had a partner!’
“我希望她会跳舞，”他的妻子说。 “我希望我们能为她找到一个搭档。我一直在说，如果斯金纳一家今年冬天而不是去年冬天在这里的话，我该多么高兴啊！或者，如果帕里一家来了，就像他们曾经说过的那样，她可能会和乔治·帕里跳舞。我很遗憾她没有伴侣！”

‘We shall do better another evening I hope,’ was Mr. Allen’s consolation.
“我希望下次晚上我们会做得更好，”艾伦先生安慰道。

The company began to disperse when the dancing was over — enough to leave space for the remainder to walk about in some comfort; and now was the time for a heroine, who had not yet played a very distinguished part in the events of the evening, to be noticed and admired. Every five minutes, by removing some of the crowd, gave greater openings for her charms. She was now seen by many young men who had not been near her before. Not one, however, started with rapturous wonder on beholding her, no whisper of eager inquiry ran round the room, nor was she once called a divinity by anybody. Yet Catherine was in very good looks, and had the company only seen her three years before, they would now have thought her exceedingly handsome.
舞蹈结束后，人群开始散去——足以为剩下的人留下空间，让他们可以舒适地走动；现在是时候让一位尚未在当晚的事件中扮演非常杰出角色的女英雄受到关注和钦佩了。每隔五分钟，就会疏散一些人群，让她的魅力有更大的发挥空间。现在，许多以前没有靠近过她的年轻人都看到了她。然而，没有人一看到她就欣喜若狂，房间里没有人热切地询问，也没有人称她为神。不过凯瑟琳长得非常漂亮，如果是三年前大家才见过她，现在一定会觉得她英俊无比。

She was looked at, however, and with some admiration; for, in her own hearing, two gentlemen pronounced her to be a pretty girl. Such words had their due effect; she immediately thought the evening pleasanter than she had found it before — her humble vanity was contented — she felt more obliged to the two young men for this simple praise than a true-quality heroine would have been for fifteen sonnets in celebration of her charms, and went to her chair in good humour with everybody, and perfectly satisfied with her share of public attention.
然而，人们看着她，带着几分钦佩。因为，在她自己看来，两位先生宣称她是一个漂亮的女孩。这些话起到了应有的作用。她立即​​觉得这个夜晚比她以前发现的更愉快——她卑微的虚荣心得到了满足——她对这两个年轻人的这种简单的赞美感到更加感激，而不是一个真正优秀的女英雄会用十五首十四行诗来庆祝她的魅力，她和大家都很幽默地坐到了她的椅子上，并对自己受到的公众关注感到非常满意。

Chapter 3
第3章

Every morning now brought its regular duties — shops were to be visited; some new part of the town to be looked at; and the pump-room to be attended, where they paraded up and down for an hour, looking at everybody and speaking to no one. The wish of a numerous acquaintance in Bath was still uppermost with Mrs. Allen, and she repeated it after every fresh proof, which every morning brought, of her knowing nobody at all.
现在每天早上都有例行的任务——去商店；去商店；去商店。小镇的一些新的地方值得一看；还有要参加的泵房，他们在那里来来回回地游行了一个小时，看着每个人，不跟任何人说话。在巴斯结识众多熟人的愿望仍然是艾伦夫人的首要愿望，每天早上都有新的证据表明她根本不认识任何人之后，她就重复了这一点。

They made their appearance in the Lower Rooms; and here fortune was more favourable to our heroine. The master of the ceremonies introduced to her a very gentlemanlike young man as a partner; his name was Tilney. He seemed to be about four or five and twenty, was rather tall, had a pleasing countenance, a very intelligent and lively eye, and, if not quite handsome, was very near it. His address was good, and Catherine felt herself in high luck. There was little leisure for speaking while they danced; but when they were seated at tea, she found him as agreeable as she had already given him credit for being. He talked with fluency and spirit — and there was an archness and pleasantry in his manner which interested, though it was hardly understood by her. After chatting some time on such matters as naturally arose from the objects around them, he suddenly addressed her with — ‘I have hitherto been very remiss, madam, in the proper attentions of a partner here; I have not yet asked you how long you have been in Bath; whether you were ever here before; whether you have been at the Upper Rooms, the theatre, and the concert; and how you like the place altogether. I have been very negligent — but are you now at leisure to satisfy me in these particulars? If you are I will begin directly.’
他们出现在下层房间。在这里，命运对我们的女主人公更加有利。司仪给她介绍了一位非常绅士的年轻人作为舞伴；他的名字叫蒂尔尼。他看上去大约四五岁、二十岁左右，个子相当高，面容讨人喜欢，眼睛非常聪明、活泼，即使算不上英俊，也已经很接近了。他的地址很好，凯瑟琳觉得自己很幸运。他们跳舞时几乎没有闲暇说话。但当他们坐下来喝茶时，她发现他和她之前所认为的一样和蔼可亲。他说话流畅而充满活力——他的态度中有一种顽皮和幽默，很有趣，尽管她很难理解。就他们周围的事物自然产生的问题聊了一会儿之后，他突然对她说道：我还没有问你在巴斯呆了多久；你以前是否来过这里；您是否去过Upper Rooms、剧院和音乐会；以及你对这个地方的整体喜好程度。我一直很疏忽——但是你现在有闲暇让我满意这些细节吗？如果你是，我就直接开始。

‘You need not give yourself that trouble, sir.’
“您不必给自己添麻烦，先生。”

‘No trouble, I assure you, madam.’ Then forming his features into a set smile, and affectedly softening his voice, he added, with a simpering air, ‘Have you been long in Bath, madam?’
“没问题，我向您保证，女士。”然后他脸上露出了坚定的微笑，假装软化了声音，带着傻笑的神情补充道，“您在巴斯待很久了吗，女士？”

‘About a week, sir,’ replied Catherine, trying not to laugh.
“大约一个星期，先生。”凯瑟琳回答道，努力忍住不笑。

‘Really!’ with affected astonishment.
“真的！”假装惊讶。

‘Why should you be surprised, sir?’
“您为什么要感到惊讶，先生？”

‘Why, indeed!’ said he, in his natural tone. ‘But some emotion must appear to be raised by your reply, and surprise is more easily assumed, and not less reasonable than any other. Now let us go on. Were you never here before, madam?’
“啊，确实如此！”他用自然的语气说道。 “但是你的回答似乎一定会激起某种情绪，而惊讶更容易被假设，而且并不比任何其他反应更不合理。现在让我们继续。女士，您以前从没来过这里吗？

‘Never, sir.’
“从来没有，先生。”

‘Indeed! Have you yet honoured the Upper Rooms?’
'的确！你已经尊敬过上层房间了吗？

‘Yes, sir, I was there last Monday.’
“是的，先生，我上周一就在那儿。”

‘Have you been to the theatre?’
“你去过剧院吗？”

‘Yes, sir, I was at the play on Tuesday.’
“是的，先生，周二我去看了演出。”

‘To the concert?’
“去音乐会？”

‘Yes, sir, on Wednesday.’
“是的，先生，星期三。”

‘And are you altogether pleased with Bath?’
“你对巴斯还满意吗？”

‘Yes — I like it very well.’
“是的——我非常喜欢它。”

‘Now I must give one smirk, and then we may be rational again.’ Catherine turned away her head, not knowing whether she might venture to laugh. ‘I see what you think of me,’ said he gravely — ‘I shall make but a poor figure in your journal tomorrow.’
“现在我必须傻笑一下，然后我们才能恢复理智。”凯瑟琳转过头，不知道是否可以冒险笑。 “我明白你对我的看法，”他严肃地说，“明天我在你的日记里只会成为一个可怜的人物。”

‘My journal!’
'我的日记！'

‘Yes, I know exactly what you will say: Friday, went to the Lower Rooms; wore my sprigged muslin robe with blue trimmings — plain black shoes — appeared to much advantage; but was strangely harassed by a queer, half-witted man, who would make me dance with him, and distressed me by his nonsense.’
“是的，我完全知道你会说什么：周五，去下层房间；周五，去下层房间；”穿着我的带蓝色饰边的枝条平纹细布长袍——纯黑的鞋子——似乎很有利；但奇怪的是，他被一个奇怪的、愚蠢的人骚扰，他让我和他跳舞，他的胡言乱语让我感到苦恼。

‘Indeed I shall say no such thing.’
“事实上，我不会说这样的话。”

‘Shall I tell you what you ought to say?’
“我可以告诉你你应该说什么吗？”

‘If you please.’
'如果你能够。'

‘I danced with a very agreeable young man, introduced by Mr. King; had a great deal of conversation with him — seems a most extraordinary genius — hope I may know more of him. That, madam, is what I wish you to say.’
“我和一位非常和蔼可亲的年轻人跳舞，是金先生介绍的。与他进行了很多交谈——他似乎是一个最非凡的天才——希望我能更多地了解他。女士，这就是我希望您说的。

‘But, perhaps, I keep no journal.’
“但是，也许我没有写日记。”

‘Perhaps you are not sitting in this room, and I am not sitting by you. These are points in which a doubt is equally possible. Not keep a journal! How are your absent cousins to understand the tenour of your life in Bath without one? How are the civilities and compliments of every day to be related as they ought to be, unless noted down every evening in a journal? How are your various dresses to be remembered, and the particular state of your complexion, and curl of your hair to be described in all their diversities, without having constant recourse to a journal? My dear madam, I am not so ignorant of young ladies’ ways as you wish to believe me; it is this delightful habit of journaling which largely contributes to form the easy style of writing for which ladies are so generally celebrated. Everybody allows that the talent of writing agreeable letters is peculiarly female. Nature may have done something, but I am sure it must be essentially assisted by the practice of keeping a journal.’
‘也许你没有坐在这个房间里，我也没有坐在你旁边。这些都是同样可能产生疑问的点。不记日记！你不在的表兄弟姐妹如何理解你在巴斯的生活？除非每天晚上都在日记中记下来，否则每天的礼貌和赞美如何才能按照应有的方式联系起来呢？如何在不经常查阅日记的情况下记住你的各种衣服，如何描述你的肤色的特殊状态和头发的卷曲？亲爱的女士，我并不像您希望相信的那样对年轻女士的行为一无所知。正是这种写日记的令人愉快的习惯在很大程度上促成了女性普遍享有盛誉的轻松写作风格。大家都承认，写令人愉快的信件的才能是女性特有的。大自然可能做了一些事情，但我相信它必须通过写日记的做法得到本质上的帮助。

‘I have sometimes thought,’ said Catherine, doubtingly, ‘whether ladies do write so much better letters than gentlemen! That is — I should not think the superiority was always on our side.’
“我有时会想，”凯瑟琳怀疑地说，“女士们写的信是否比先生们写得好得多！也就是说——我不应该认为优势总是在我们这边。

‘As far as I have had opportunity of judging, it appears to me that the usual style of letter-writing among women is faultless, except in three particulars.’
“据我有机会判断，在我看来，女性通常的写信风格是完美的，除了三个细节之外。”

‘And what are they?’
“那它们是什么？”

‘A general deficiency of subject, a total inattention to stops, and a very frequent ignorance of grammar.’
“普遍缺乏主题，完全不注意停顿，而且经常忽视语法。”

‘Upon my word! I need not have been afraid of disclaiming the compliment. You do not think too highly of us in that way.’
‘我保证！我不必害怕拒绝这种赞美。那样的话你对我们的评价还不算太高。

‘I should no more lay it down as a general rule that women write better letters than men, than that they sing better duets, or draw better landscapes. In every power, of which taste is the foundation, excellence is pretty fairly divided between the sexes.’
“我不应该把女性写得比男性更好的信件作为一般规则，就像她们唱得更好的二重唱或画出更好的风景一样。在以品味为基础的每一种力量中，优秀者在性别之间的分配相当公平。

They were interrupted by Mrs. Allen: ‘My dear Catherine,’ said she, ‘do take this pin out of my sleeve; I am afraid it has torn a hole already; I shall be quite sorry if it has, for this is a favourite gown, though it cost but nine shillings a yard.’
他们被艾伦夫人打断了：“亲爱的凯瑟琳，”她说，“请把这枚别针从我的袖子里拿出来；”恐怕它已经撕开了一个洞；如果有的话，我会很抱歉，因为这是一件我最喜欢的礼服，尽管它的价格只有九先令一码。

‘That is exactly what I should have guessed it, madam,’ said Mr. Tilney, looking at the muslin.
“这正是我应该猜到的，女士，”蒂尔尼先生看着那件平纹细布说道。

‘Do you understand muslins, sir?’
“先生，您了解平纹细布吗？”

‘Particularly well; I always buy my own cravats, and am allowed to be an excellent judge; and my sister has often trusted me in the choice of a gown. I bought one for her the other day, and it was pronounced to be a prodigious bargain by every lady who saw it. I gave but five shillings a yard for it, and a true Indian muslin.’
‘特别好；我总是自己买领带，并被允许成为一名出色的评判者；我姐姐在礼服的选择上也经常信任我。前几天我给她买了一件，每一位看到它的女士都说这是一笔非常划算的交易。我只花了五先令一码买了一件真正的印度平纹细布。

Mrs. Allen was quite struck by his genius. ‘Men commonly take so little notice of those things,’ said she; ‘I can never get Mr. Allen to know one of my gowns from another. You must be a great comfort to your sister, sir.’
艾伦夫人对他的天才感到非常震惊。 “男人通常很少注意到这些事情，”她说。 “我永远无法让艾伦先生区分我的一件礼服和另一件礼服。先生，你一定给你妹妹带来了很大的安慰。”

‘I hope I am, madam.’
“我希望是这样，女士。”

‘And pray, sir, what do you think of Miss Morland’s gown?’
“请问，先生，您觉得莫兰小姐的礼服怎么样？”

‘It is very pretty, madam,’ said he, gravely examining it; ‘but I do not think it will wash well; I am afraid it will fray.’
“它非常漂亮，女士，”他严肃地审视着它说道。 “但我认为它不好洗；我担心它会磨损。

‘How can you,’ said Catherine, laughing, ‘be so — ‘ She had almost said ‘strange.’
“你怎么可以，”凯瑟琳笑着说，“这样——”她几乎要说“奇怪了”。

‘I am quite of your opinion, sir,’ replied Mrs. Allen; ‘and so I told Miss Morland when she bought it.’
“我完全同意你的意见，先生，”艾伦夫人回答道。 “所以当莫兰小姐买了它时，我告诉了她。”

‘But then you know, madam, muslin always turns to some account or other; Miss Morland will get enough out of it for a handkerchief, or a cap, or a cloak. Muslin can never be said to be wasted. I have heard my sister say so forty times, when she has been extravagant in buying more than she wanted, or careless in cutting it to pieces.’
“但是你知道，女士，平纹细布总是会出于某种原因；莫兰小姐可以从中得到足够的手帕、帽子或斗篷。穆斯林永远不能说是浪费。我听我姐姐说过四十次这样的话，当时她买的东西比她想要的多，或者不小心把它切成碎片。

‘Bath is a charming place, sir; there are so many good shops here. We are sadly off in the country; not but what we have very good shops in Salisbury, but it is so far to go — eight miles is a long way; Mr. Allen says it is nine, measured nine; but I am sure it cannot be more than eight; and it is such a fag — I come back tired to death. Now, here one can step out of doors and get a thing in five minutes.’
“巴斯是一个迷人的地方，先生；这里有很多好商店。我们不幸在乡下；不是，而是我们在索尔兹伯里有很好的商店，但要走的路还很远——八英里是很长的路；艾伦先生说是九，测量起来是九；但我确信它不会超过八个；真是个基佬——我回来累得要死。现在，在这里，人们可以走出家门，在五分钟内得到一件东西。”

Mr. Tilney was polite enough to seem interested in what she said; and she kept him on the subject of muslins till the dancing recommenced. Catherine feared, as she listened to their discourse, that he indulged himself a little too much with the foibles of others. ‘What are you thinking of so earnestly?’ said he, as they walked back to the ballroom; ‘not of your partner, I hope, for, by that shake of the head, your meditations are not satisfactory.’
蒂尔尼先生很有礼貌，似乎对她说的话很感兴趣。她让他继续谈论平纹细布的话题，直到舞蹈重新开始。凯瑟琳听着他们的谈话，担心他过于沉迷于别人的缺点。 “你们这么认真地在想什么？”当他们走回舞厅时，他问道。 “我希望不是你的伴侣，因为，通过摇头，你的冥想并不令人满意。”

Catherine coloured, and said, ‘I was not thinking of anything.’
凯瑟琳红了脸，说道：“我什么也没想。”

‘That is artful and deep, to be sure; but I had rather be told at once that you will not tell me.’
“这确实是巧妙而深刻的；但我宁愿立即被告知你不会告诉我。

‘Well then, I will not.’
“那么，我不会。”

‘Thank you; for now we shall soon be acquainted, as I am authorized to tease you on this subject whenever we meet, and nothing in the world advances intimacy so much.’
'谢谢;现在我们很快就会熟悉了，因为每当我们见面时，我都有权在这个问题上取笑你，世界上没有什么比这更能增进亲密感了。

They danced again; and, when the assembly closed, parted, on the lady’s side at least, with a strong inclination for continuing the acquaintance. Whether she thought of him so much, while she drank her warm wine and water, and prepared herself for bed, as to dream of him when there, cannot be ascertained; but I hope it was no more than in a slight slumber, or a morning doze at most; for if it be true, as a celebrated writer has maintained, that no young lady can be justified in falling in love before the gentleman’s love is declared,* it must be very improper that a young lady should dream of a gentleman before the gentleman is first known to have dreamt of her. How proper Mr. Tilney might be as a dreamer or a lover had not yet perhaps entered Mr. Allen’s head, but that he was not objectionable as a common acquaintance for his young charge he was on inquiry satisfied; for he had early in the evening taken pains to know who her partner was, and had been assured of Mr. Tilney’s being a clergyman, and of a very respectable family in Gloucestershire.
他们又跳舞了；当集会结束时，至少在女士这边，带着继续相识的强烈意愿，分手了。当她喝着温热的酒和水，准备睡觉时，她是否如此想念他，以至于在睡觉时梦见他，无法确定；但我希望这只不过是在小睡中，或者顶多是早上打瞌睡。因为，如果真如一位著名作家所言，在绅士的爱情被宣告之前，任何一位年轻女子都没有理由坠入爱河*，那么在绅士尚未表白之前，一位年轻女子就梦见一位绅士，那一定是非常不恰当的。第一次知道梦见了她。蒂尔尼先生作为一个梦想家或情人可能还没有进入艾伦先生的脑海，但作为一个普通熟人，他并没有反对他年轻的指控，他对此感到满意；因为他在傍晚时分就煞费苦心地想知道​​她的伴侣是谁，并且确信蒂尔尼先生是一名牧师，而且出身于格洛斯特郡一个非常受人尊敬的家庭。

Chapter 4
第4章

With more than usual eagerness did Catherine hasten to the pump-room the next day, secure within herself of seeing Mr. Tilney there before the morning were over, and ready to meet him with a smile; but no smile was demanded — Mr. Tilney did not appear. Every creature in Bath, except himself, was to be seen in the room at different periods of the fashionable hours; crowds of people were every moment passing in and out, up the steps and down; people whom nobody cared about, and nobody wanted to see; and he only was absent. ‘What a delightful place Bath is,’ said Mrs. Allen as they sat down near the great clock, after parading the room till they were tired; ‘and how pleasant it would be if we had any acquaintance here.’
第二天，凯瑟琳比平常更急切地赶到泵房，她确信自己能在早上结束之前见到蒂尔尼先生，并准备微笑着迎接他。但没有人要求微笑——蒂尔尼先生没有出现。巴斯的每一个生物，除了他自己，在不同的流行时间段都可以在房间里看到。每时每刻都有成群的人进进出出，上楼梯，下楼梯。没有人关心、没有人愿意见到的人；而他只是缺席。 “巴斯是一个多么令人愉快的地方啊，”他们在房间里逛了一圈，直到累了之后，他们在大钟附近坐下来，艾伦太太说道。 “如果我们在这里有熟人，那该多好啊。”

This sentiment had been uttered so often in vain that Mrs. Allen had no particular reason to hope it would be followed with more advantage now; but we are told to ‘despair of nothing we would attain,’ as ‘unwearied diligence our point would gain”; and the unwearied diligence with which she had every day wished for the same thing was at length to have its just reward, for hardly had she been seated ten minutes before a lady of about her own age, who was sitting by her, and had been looking at her attentively for several minutes, addressed her with great complaisance in these words: ‘I think, madam, I cannot be mistaken; it is a long time since I had the pleasure of seeing you, but is not your name Allen?’ This question answered, as it readily was, the stranger pronounced hers to be Thorpe; and Mrs. Allen immediately recognized the features of a former schoolfellow and intimate, whom she had seen only once since their respective marriages, and that many years ago. Their joy on this meeting was very great, as well it might, since they had been contented to know nothing of each other for the last fifteen years. Compliments on good looks now passed; and, after observing how time had slipped away since they were last together, how little they had thought of meeting in Bath, and what a pleasure it was to see an old friend, they proceeded to make inquiries and give intelligence as to their families, sisters, and cousins, talking both together, far more ready to give than to receive information, and each hearing very little of what the other said. Mrs. Thorpe, however, had one great advantage as a talker, over Mrs. Allen, in a family of children; and when she expatiated on the talents of her sons, and the beauty of her daughters, when she related their different situations and views — that John was at Oxford, Edward at Merchant Taylors’, and William at sea — and all of them more beloved and respected in their different station than any other three beings ever were, Mrs. Allen had no similar information to give, no similar triumphs to press on the unwilling and unbelieving ear of her friend, and was forced to sit and appear to listen to all these maternal effusions, consoling herself, however, with the discovery, which her keen eye soon made, that the lace on Mrs. Thorpe’s pelisse was not half so handsome as that on her own.
这种观点多次被说出来都是徒劳的，艾伦夫人现在没有什么特别的理由希望这样做会带来更多好处。但我们被告知要“对我们将一事无成感到绝望”，因为“坚持不懈的努力我们的目标将会获得”；她每天孜孜不倦地希望得到同样的东西，终于得到了应有的回报，因为不到十分钟，她就坐在一位与她年龄相仿的女士面前，她坐在她旁边，一直在她身边。 ”我仔细地看了她几分钟，非常恭敬地对她说道：“我想，女士，我不会弄错的；我已经很久没有荣幸地见到你了，但你不是叫艾伦吗？”这个问题很容易得到回答，陌生人宣布她的名字是索普。艾伦夫人立即认出了一位以前的校友和亲密朋友的面容，自从他们各自结婚以来，她只见过他一次，而且是很多年前的事了。他们对这次会面感到非常高兴，也确实如此，因为在过去的十五年里，他们一直满足于彼此一无所知。对漂亮外表的赞美现在已经过去了；自从他们上次在一起以来，时间已经过去了，他们几乎没有想到要在巴斯见面，见到老朋友是多么高兴，他们开始询问并提供有关他们家人的情报，姐妹们、表兄弟姐妹们在一起交谈，更愿意给予而不是接受信息，而且彼此都很少听到对方所说的话。然而，与索普夫人相比，索普夫人作为一个健谈的人有一个很大的优势。 艾伦，在一个有孩子的家庭；当她详细阐述儿子的才华和女儿的美丽时，当她讲述他们不同的处境和观点时——约翰在牛津，爱德华在商人泰勒，威廉在海上——他们都更受人爱戴艾伦夫人在不同的地位上比任何其他三个人都受到尊重，艾伦夫人没有类似的信息可以提供，也没有类似的胜利可以压在她朋友不情愿和不相信的耳朵上，她被迫坐下来，似乎在倾听所有人的声音。然而，她敏锐的眼睛很快就发现，索普夫人外衣上的花边还没有她自己的一半漂亮，她以此安慰自己。

‘Here come my dear girls,’ cried Mrs. Thorpe, pointing at three smart-looking females who, arm in arm, were then moving towards her. ‘My dear Mrs. Allen, I long to introduce them; they will be so delighted to see you: the tallest is Isabella, my eldest; is not she a fine young woman? The others are very much admired too, but I believe Isabella is the handsomest.’
“来了，我亲爱的女儿们，”索普夫人指着三个看上去很聪明的女人喊道，她们手挽手朝她走来。 “我亲爱的艾伦夫人，我很想把他们介绍给你们；他们会很高兴见到你：最高的是伊莎贝拉，我最大的；她不是一个优秀的年轻女子吗？其他人也都很欣赏，但我相信伊莎贝拉是最帅的。”

The Miss Thorpes were introduced; and Miss Morland, who had been for a short time forgotten, was introduced likewise. The name seemed to strike them all; and, after speaking to her with great civility, the eldest young lady observed aloud to the rest, ‘How excessively like her brother Miss Morland is!’
索普斯小姐被介绍了；曾短暂被遗忘的莫兰小姐也被介绍了。这个名字似乎让他们所有人都印象深刻。最年长的年轻女士以极大的礼貌与她交谈后，大声对其他人说：“莫兰小姐太像她哥哥了！”

‘The very picture of him indeed!’ cried the mother — and ‘I should have known her anywhere for his sister!’ was repeated by them all, two or three times over. For a moment Catherine was surprised; but Mrs. Thorpe and her daughters had scarcely begun the history of their acquaintance with Mr. James Morland, before she remembered that her eldest brother had lately formed an intimacy with a young man of his own college, of the name of Thorpe; and that he had spent the last week of the Christmas vacation with his family, near London.
“确实是他的照片！”母亲喊道，“我应该在任何地方都能认出他的妹妹！”他们都重复了两三遍。凯瑟琳一时感到惊讶。但索普夫人和她的女儿们刚开始与詹姆斯·莫兰先生相识，就想起她的大哥最近与他自己学院的一个名叫索普的年轻人建立了亲密关系。他在伦敦附近和家人一起度过了圣诞假期的最后一周。

The whole being explained, many obliging things were said by the Miss Thorpes of their wish of being better acquainted with her; of being considered as already friends, through the friendship of their brothers, etc., which Catherine heard with pleasure, and answered with all the pretty expressions she could command; and, as the first proof of amity, she was soon invited to accept an arm of the eldest Miss Thorpe, and take a turn with her about the room. Catherine was delighted with this extension of her Bath acquaintance, and almost forgot Mr. Tilney while she talked to Miss Thorpe. Friendship is certainly the finest balm for the pangs of disappointed love.
索普斯小姐解释了整个过程后，说了许多亲切的话，表达了他们希望更好地了解她的愿望。凯瑟琳很高兴地听到了这些话，并用她能控制的所有漂亮的表情来回答。作为友好的第一个证明，她很快就被邀请接受大小姐索普小姐的手臂，并与她一起在房间里转一圈。凯瑟琳很高兴能与巴斯结识，在与索普小姐交谈时几乎忘记了蒂尔尼先生。友谊无疑是治愈失恋的最佳良药。

Their conversation turned upon those subjects, of which the free discussion has generally much to do in perfecting a sudden intimacy between two young ladies: such as dress, balls, flirtations, and quizzes. Miss Thorpe, however, being four years older than Miss Morland, and at least four years better informed, had a very decided advantage in discussing such points; she could compare the balls of Bath with those of Tunbridge, its fashions with the fashions of London; could rectify the opinions of her new friend in many articles of tasteful attire; could discover a flirtation between any gentleman and lady who only smiled on each other; and point out a quiz through the thickness of a crowd. These powers received due admiration from Catherine, to whom they were entirely new; and the respect which they naturally inspired might have been too great for familiarity, had not the easy gaiety of Miss Thorpe’s manners, and her frequent expressions of delight on this acquaintance with her, softened down every feeling of awe, and left nothing but tender affection. Their increasing attachment was not to be satisfied with half a dozen turns in the pump-room, but required, when they all quitted it together, that Miss Thorpe should accompany Miss Morland to the very door of Mr. Allen’s house; and that they should there part with a most affectionate and lengthened shake of hands, after learning, to their mutual relief, that they should see each other across the theatre at night, and say their prayers in the same chapel the next morning. Catherine then ran directly upstairs, and watched Miss Thorpe’s progress down the street from the drawing-room window; admired the graceful spirit of her walk, the fashionable air of her figure and dress; and felt grateful, as well she might, for the chance which had procured her such a friend.
他们的谈话转向了这些话题，其中自由讨论通常与完善两位年轻女士之间突然的亲密关系有很大关系：例如着装、舞会、调情和测验。然而，索普小姐比莫兰小姐大四岁，而且消息灵通至少比莫兰小姐多四岁，因此在讨论这些问题时具有非常明显的优势。她可以将巴斯的舞会与坦布里奇的舞会进行比较，将巴斯的时尚与伦敦的时尚进行比较。能在许多穿衣品味的文章中纠正她的新朋友的观点；可以发现任何只相视一笑的绅士和淑女之间的调情；并在人群中指出一个测验。这些能力得到了叶卡捷琳娜应有的钦佩，因为它们对她来说是全新的。如果不是索普小姐轻松愉快的举止，以及她在与她相识时经常表达的喜悦之情，他们自然引起的尊重可能对熟悉来说太大了，软化了每一种敬畏感，只留下温柔的感情。他们日益增长的依恋不满足于在水泵房里转六圈，而是要求当他们一起退出时，索普小姐应该陪着莫兰小姐到艾伦先生家门口；在得知他们应该在晚上在剧院对面见面，并在第二天早上在同一个教堂里祈祷之后，他们应该以最深情和最长时间的握手告别，这让他们彼此松了口气。 凯瑟琳直接跑上楼，从客厅的窗户看着索普小姐沿着街道走去。欣赏她走路时的优雅神态，欣赏她身材和衣着的时尚气息；她也很感激有这个机会为她赢得了这样一个朋友。

Mrs. Thorpe was a widow, and not a very rich one; she was a good-humoured, well-meaning woman, and a very indulgent mother. Her eldest daughter had great personal beauty, and the younger ones, by pretending to be as handsome as their sister, imitating her air, and dressing in the same style, did very well.
索普夫人是一位寡妇，而且不是一个非常富有的人。她是一位幽默、善意的女人，也是一位非常宽容的母亲。大女儿长得很漂亮，小女儿们也扮得和姐姐一样漂亮，模仿姐姐的神态，穿得也很像。

This brief account of the family is intended to supersede the necessity of a long and minute detail from Mrs. Thorpe herself, of her past adventures and sufferings, which might otherwise be expected to occupy the three or four following chapters; in which the worthlessness of lords and attornies might be set forth, and conversations, which had passed twenty years before, be minutely repeated.
对这个家庭的简短描述是为了取代索普夫人本人对她过去的冒险和痛苦的长篇大论的必要性，否则这些细节可能会占据接下来的三四章；其中可能会阐述上议院和律师的无用性，并详细地重复二十年前的谈话。

Chapter 5
第5章

Catherine was not so much engaged at the theatre that evening, in returning the nods and smiles of Miss Thorpe, though they certainly claimed much of her leisure, as to forget to look with an inquiring eye for Mr. Tilney in every box which her eye could reach; but she looked in vain. Mr. Tilney was no fonder of the play than the pump-room. She hoped to be more fortunate the next day; and when her wishes for fine weather were answered by seeing a beautiful morning, she hardly felt a doubt of it; for a fine Sunday in Bath empties every house of its inhabitants, and all the world appears on such an occasion to walk about and tell their acquaintance what a charming day it is.
那天晚上，凯瑟琳在剧院里并没有太忙于回应索普小姐的点头和微笑，尽管他们确实占用了她很多闲暇，但凯瑟琳却忘记了用询问的眼光在她看到的每个包厢里寻找蒂尔尼先生。可以达到；但她徒劳地寻找。蒂尔尼先生并不比水泵房更喜欢这出戏。她希望第二天能更幸运。当她对晴朗天气的愿望因看到一个美丽的早晨而得到满足时，她几乎对此没有任何怀疑。巴斯的一个美好的星期天，家家户户都空无一人，全世界的人都在这样的场合出现，四处走动，告诉他们的熟人这是多么迷人的一天。

As soon as divine service was over, the Thorpes and Allens eagerly joined each other; and after staying long enough in the pump-room to discover that the crowd was insupportable, and that there was not a genteel face to be seen, which everybody discovers every Sunday throughout the season, they hastened away to the Crescent, to breathe the fresh air of better company. Here Catherine and Isabella, arm in arm, again tasted the sweets of friendship in an unreserved conversation; they talked much, and with much enjoyment; but again was Catherine disappointed in her hope of reseeing her partner. He was nowhere to be met with; every search for him was equally unsuccessful, in morning lounges or evening assemblies; neither at the Upper nor Lower Rooms, at dressed or undressed balls, was he perceivable; nor among the walkers, the horsemen, or the curricle-drivers of the morning. His name was not in the pump-room book, and curiosity could do no more. He must be gone from Bath. Yet he had not mentioned that his stay would be so short! This sort of mysteriousness, which is always so becoming in a hero, threw a fresh grace in Catherine’s imagination around his person and manners, and increased her anxiety to know more of him. From the Thorpes she could learn nothing, for they had been only two days in Bath before they met with Mrs. Allen. It was a subject, however, in which she often indulged with her fair friend, from whom she received every possible encouragement to continue to think of him; and his impression on her fancy was not suffered therefore to weaken. Isabella was very sure that he must be a charming young man, and was equally sure that he must have been delighted with her dear Catherine, and would therefore shortly return. She liked him the better for being a clergyman, ‘for she must confess herself very partial to the profession”; and something like a sigh escaped her as she said it. Perhaps Catherine was wrong in not demanding the cause of that gentle emotion — but she was not experienced enough in the finesse of love, or the duties of friendship, to know when delicate raillery was properly called for, or when a confidence should be forced.
神圣仪式一结束，索普斯和艾伦一家就迫不及待地聚在一起。在泵房待了足够长的时间后，发现人群难以忍受，而且看不到一张优雅的面孔，整个季节的每个星期天每个人都会发现这一点，他们急忙前往新月，呼吸新鲜的空气。更好公司的空气。在这里，凯瑟琳和伊莎贝拉手挽着手，在毫无保留的交谈中再次尝到了友谊的甜头。他们聊了很多，而且聊得很开心。但凯瑟琳再次见到她的伴侣的希望再次失望。到处都找不到他。每次对他的搜寻都同样失败，无论是在早上的休息室还是晚上的集会上。无论是在上层房间还是下层房间，无论是在盛装舞会上还是脱衣舞会上，都看不到他的身影。也不在步行者、骑马者或早晨的司机中。他的名字没有出现在水泵室的登记簿上，好奇心也无法再阻止他了。他肯定已经离开巴斯了。但他并没有提到他的逗留时间会这么短！这种神秘感在英雄身上总是那么恰当，它为凯瑟琳对他的性格和举止的想象增添了新鲜的优雅，也增加了她想要更多地了解他的焦虑。她从索普夫妇那里什么也学不到，因为他们到巴斯才两天就见到了艾伦太太。然而，这是她经常与她的好朋友讨论的一个话题，从他那里她得到了一切可能的鼓励，让她继续想着他。他对她的幻想并没有因此而减弱。伊莎贝拉非常确信他一定是一个迷人的年轻人，同样确信他一定对她亲爱的凯瑟琳很满意，因此很快就会回来。 她更喜欢他作为一名牧师，“因为她必须承认自己非常偏爱这个职业”；当她说这句话的时候，她发出一声叹息。也许凯瑟琳没有要求这种温和情感的原因是错误的——但她在爱情的技巧或友谊的责任方面经验不足，不知道什么时候需要适当地进行微妙的嘲笑，或者什么时候应该强迫信任。

Mrs. Allen was now quite happy — quite satisfied with Bath. She had found some acquaintance, had been so lucky too as to find in them the family of a most worthy old friend; and, as the completion of good fortune, had found these friends by no means so expensively dressed as herself. Her daily expressions were no longer, ‘I wish we had some acquaintance in Bath!’ They were changed into, ‘How glad I am we have met with Mrs. Thorpe!’ and she was as eager in promoting the intercourse of the two families, as her young charge and Isabella themselves could be; never satisfied with the day unless she spent the chief of it by the side of Mrs. Thorpe, in what they called conversation, but in which there was scarcely ever any exchange of opinion, and not often any resemblance of subject, for Mrs. Thorpe talked chiefly of her children, and Mrs. Allen of her gowns.
艾伦夫人现在很高兴——对巴斯很满意。她找到了一些熟人，而且很幸运，在他们身上找到了一位最有价值的老朋友的家人；而且，幸运的是，我发现这些朋友的穿着绝不像她那么昂贵。她的日常表情不再是“我希望我们能在巴斯认识一些人！”而是变成“我很高兴我们见到了索普夫人！”并且她同样热衷于促进两个家庭的交往。 ，就像她年轻的照顾者和伊莎贝拉本人一样；除非她把这一天的大部分时间都花在索普夫人身边，在他们所谓的谈话中，但在谈话中，索普夫人几乎没有任何意见交换，而且主题也不经常有任何相似之处。主要谈论她的孩子，艾伦夫人则谈论她的礼服。

The progress of the friendship between Catherine and Isabella was quick as its beginning had been warm, and they passed so rapidly through every gradation of increasing tenderness that there was shortly no fresh proof of it to be given to their friends or themselves. They called each other by their Christian name, were always arm in arm when they walked, pinned up each other’s train for the dance, and were not to be divided in the set; and if a rainy morning deprived them of other enjoyments, they were still resolute in meeting in defiance of wet and dirt, and shut themselves up, to read novels together. Yes, novels; for I will not adopt that ungenerous and impolitic custom so common with novel-writers, of degrading by their contemptuous censure the very performances, to the number of which they are themselves adding — joining with their greatest enemies in bestowing the harshest epithets on such works, and scarcely ever permitting them to be read by their own heroine, who, if she accidentally take up a novel, is sure to turn over its insipid pages with disgust. Alas! If the heroine of one novel be not patronized by the heroine of another, from whom can she expect protection and regard? I cannot approve of it. Let us leave it to the reviewers to abuse such effusions of fancy at their leisure, and over every new novel to talk in threadbare strains of the trash with which the press now groans. Let us not desert one another; we are an injured body. Although our productions have afforded more extensive and unaffected pleasure than those of any other literary corporation in the world, no species of composition has been so much decried. From pride, ignorance, or fashion, our foes are almost as many as our readers. And while the abilities of the nine-hundredth abridger of the History of England, or of the man who collects and publishes in a volume some dozen lines of Milton, Pope, and Prior, with a paper from the Spectator, and a chapter from Sterne, are eulogized by a thousand pens — there seems almost a general wish of decrying the capacity and undervaluing the labour of the novelist, and of slighting the performances which have only genius, wit, and taste to recommend them. ‘I am no novel-reader — I seldom look into novels — Do not imagine that I often read novels — It is really very well for a novel.’ Such is the common cant. ‘And what are you reading, Miss — ?’ ‘Oh! It is only a novel!’ replies the young lady, while she lays down her book with affected indifference, or momentary shame. ‘It is only Cecilia, or Camilla, or Belinda”; or, in short, only some work in which the greatest powers of the mind are displayed, in which the most thorough knowledge of human nature, the happiest delineation of its varieties, the liveliest effusions of wit and humour, are conveyed to the world in the best-chosen language. Now, had the same young lady been engaged with a volume of the Spectator, instead of such a work, how proudly would she have produced the book, and told its name; though the chances must be against her being occupied by any part of that voluminous publication, of which either the matter or manner would not disgust a young person of taste: the substance of its papers so often consisting in the statement of improbable circumstances, unnatural characters, and topics of conversation which no longer concern anyone living; and their language, too, frequently so coarse as to give no very favourable idea of the age that could endure it.
凯瑟琳和伊莎贝拉之间的友谊发展得很快，因为一开始是温暖的，他们很快就经历了每一个逐渐增加的温柔阶段，以至于很快就没有新的证据可以提供给他们的朋友或他们自己。他们用教名互相称呼，走路时总是手挽手，跳舞时互相别住对方的裙裾，在布景中也不分开。即使一个下雨的早晨剥夺了他们其他的享受，他们仍然毅然相见，不顾潮湿和污垢，把自己关起来，一起看小说。是的，小说；因为我不会采纳小说作家常见的那种吝啬和不礼貌的习惯，即通过轻蔑的谴责来贬低他们自己增加的表演——与他们最大的敌人一起对这些作品给予最严厉的绰号。 ，并且几乎不允许他们自己的女主人公阅读这些书，如果她不小心拿起一本小说，她肯定会厌恶地翻过乏味的书页。唉!如果一部小说的女主角得不到另一部小说女主角的庇护，她还能指望从谁那里得到保护和尊重呢？我不能同意。让我们让评论家们在闲暇时滥用这些溢于言表的想象力，并在每本新小说上用现在媒体抱怨的陈旧的垃圾话来谈论吧。让我们不要互相抛弃；我们是受伤的身体。尽管我们的作品比世界上任何其他文学公司的作品提供了更广泛、更不做作的乐趣，但没有任何一种作品受到如此多的谴责。由于骄傲、无知或时尚，我们的敌人几乎和我们的读者一样多。 尽管《英国历史》的第九百位删节者的能力，或者收集并出版弥尔顿、波普和普赖尔的几十行著作，以及《旁观者》的一篇论文和斯特恩的一章的人的能力， ，被一千支笔所讴歌——似乎几乎有一种普遍的愿望，谴责小说家的能力和低估小说家的劳动，并蔑视那些只有天才、机智和品味才能推荐的表演。 “我不读小说——我很少看小说——别以为我经常读小说——这对于小说来说确实非常好。”这是常见的黑话。 “小姐，你在读什么？”这只是一本小说！”年轻女士回答道，同时放下书本，一副假装冷漠的样子，或者说是一时的羞愧。 “只有塞西莉亚、卡米拉或贝琳达”；或者，简而言之，只有一些作品展现了最伟大的心灵力量，其中对人性最透彻的了解，对人性多样性的最愉快的描述，最生动的机智和幽默的流露，都以一种方式向世界传达。最好选择的语言。现在，如果同一位年轻女士正在研究《旁观者》一书，而不是这样一部作品，她会多么自豪地出版这本书，并告诉它的名字；尽管她不可能被那本大部头出版物的任何部分占据，其中的内容或方式都不会令有品味的年轻人感到厌恶：其论文的实质内容往往包括对不可能的情况、不自然的人物的陈述，以及不再与任何活着的人有关的谈话话题；他们的语言也经常如此粗俗，以至于无法对能够忍受这种语言的时代给出任何有利的信息。

Chapter 6
第6章

The following conversation, which took place between the two friends in the pump-room one morning, after an acquaintance of eight or nine days, is given as a specimen of their very warm attachment, and of the delicacy, discretion, originality of thought, and literary taste which marked the reasonableness of that attachment.
下面的对话是两个朋友在认识了八九天之后的一天早上在泵房里进行的，是他们非常热情的依恋以及思想的细腻、谨慎和独创性的一个例子，和文学品味，标志着这种依恋的合理性。

They met by appointment; and as Isabella had arrived nearly five minutes before her friend, her first address naturally was, ‘My dearest creature, what can have made you so late? I have been waiting for you at least this age!’
他们是按约定见面的；由于伊莎贝拉比她的朋友早了近五分钟，她的第一句话自然是：“我最亲爱的生物，怎么让你这么晚了？”我至少在这个年纪就一直在等你了！

‘Have you, indeed! I am very sorry for it; but really I thought I was in very good time. It is but just one. I hope you have not been here long?’
‘确实有你！我对此感到非常抱歉；但我真的认为我正处于非常好的时光。它只是一个。我希望你来这里不久？

‘Oh! These ten ages at least. I am sure I have been here this half hour. But now, let us go and sit down at the other end of the room, and enjoy ourselves. I have an hundred things to say to you. In the first place, I was so afraid it would rain this morning, just as I wanted to set off; it looked very showery, and that would have thrown me into agonies! Do you know, I saw the prettiest hat you can imagine, in a shop window in Milsom Street just now — very like yours, only with coquelicot ribbons instead of green; I quite longed for it. But, my dearest Catherine, what have you been doing with yourself all this morning? Have you gone on with Udolpho?’
'哦！至少这十个年龄段。我确定我已经在这里呆了半个小时了。但现在，让我们去房间的另一端坐下来，尽情享受吧。我有一百句话要对你说。首先，我很担心今天早上，正当我要出发的时候会下雨；看起来下着很大的雨，这会让我陷入痛苦之中！你知道吗，我刚才在米尔瑟姆街的一家商店橱窗里看到了一顶你能想象到的最漂亮的帽子——很像你的，只是上面有虞美人丝带，而不是绿色；我非常向往。但是，我最亲爱的凯瑟琳，你今天早上都在做什么呢？你继续和乌道夫在一起了吗？

‘Yes, I have been reading it ever since I woke; and I am got to the black veil.’
“是的，我从醒来就一直在读它；我已经戴上了黑色面纱。

‘Are you, indeed? How delightful! Oh! I would not tell you what is behind the black veil for the world! Are not you wild to know?’
‘你确实是吗？多么令人愉快啊！哦！我不会告诉你世界的黑色面纱背后是什么！你不想知道吗？

‘Oh! Yes, quite; what can it be? But do not tell me — I would not be told upon any account. I know it must be a skeleton, I am sure it is Laurentina’s skeleton. Oh! I am delighted with the book! I should like to spend my whole life in reading it. I assure you, if it had not been to meet you, I would not have come away from it for all the world.’
'哦！是的，相当；它会是什么？但请不要告诉我——无论如何我都不会被告知。我知道那一定是骷髅，我确信那是劳伦蒂娜的骷髅。哦！我对这本书很满意！我愿意用一生的时间来阅读它。我向你保证，如果没有遇见你，我永远都不会摆脱它。

‘Dear creature! How much I am obliged to you; and when you have finished Udolpho, we will read the Italian together; and I have made out a list of ten or twelve more of the same kind for you.’
‘亲爱的生物！我对你是多么感激；当你读完《Udolpho》后，我们将一起读意大利语；我已经为你列出了十个或十二个类似的清单。

‘Have you, indeed! How glad I am! What are they all?’
‘确实有你！我多么高兴啊！它们都是什么？

‘I will read you their names directly; here they are, in my pocketbook. Castle of Wolfenbach, Clermont, Mysterious Warnings, Necromancer of the Black Forest, Midnight Bell, Orphan of the Rhine, and Horrid Mysteries. Those will last us some time.’
“我会直接读出他们的名字；它们就在这里，在我的钱包里。 《沃尔芬巴赫城堡》、《克莱蒙》、《神秘警告》、《黑森林死灵法师》、《午夜钟声》、《莱茵孤儿》和《恐怖之谜》。这些会让我们持续一段时间。

‘Yes, pretty well; but are they all horrid, are you sure they are all horrid?’
“是的，很好；”但它们都很可怕吗？你确定它们都很可怕吗？

‘Yes, quite sure; for a particular friend of mine, a Miss Andrews, a sweet girl, one of the sweetest creatures in the world, has read every one of them. I wish you knew Miss Andrews, you would be delighted with her. She is netting herself the sweetest cloak you can conceive. I think her as beautiful as an angel, and I am so vexed with the men for not admiring her! I scold them all amazingly about it.’
“是的，非常肯定；我有一个特别的朋友，安德鲁斯小姐，一个可爱的女孩，世界上最可爱的人之一，她读过每一本书。我希望你认识安德鲁斯小姐，你会对她感到高兴。她正在为自己编织一件你能想象到的最甜美的斗篷。我觉得她像天使一样美丽，我很恼火男人们不欣赏她！我为此责备了他们所有人。

‘Scold them! Do you scold them for not admiring her?’
‘骂他们！你会责骂他们不欣赏她吗？

‘Yes, that I do. There is nothing I would not do for those who are really my friends. I have no notion of loving people by halves; it is not my nature. My attachments are always excessively strong. I told Captain Hunt at one of our assemblies this winter that if he was to tease me all night, I would not dance with him, unless he would allow Miss Andrews to be as beautiful as an angel. The men think us incapable of real friendship, you know, and I am determined to show them the difference. Now, if I were to hear anybody speak slightingly of you, I should fire up in a moment: but that is not at all likely, for you are just the kind of girl to be a great favourite with the men.’
” “是的，我愿意。对于那些真正是我的朋友的人，我没有什么不愿意做的。我没有半途而废的爱人观念；这不是我的本性。我的执着心总是太强。今年冬天的一次集会上，我告诉亨特船长，如果他整晚都在取笑我，我不会和他跳舞，除非他允许安德鲁斯小姐像天使一样美丽。你知道，这些人认为我们无法建立真正的友谊，而我决心向他们展示其中的区别。现在，如果我听到有人轻蔑地议论你，我就会立刻火冒三丈：但这根本不可能，因为你就是那种深受男人喜爱的女孩。

‘Oh, dear!’ cried Catherine, colouring. ‘How can you say so?’
“哦，天哪！”凯瑟琳脸色红了，喊道。 “你怎么能这么说呢？”

‘I know you very well; you have so much animation, which is exactly what Miss Andrews wants, for I must confess there is something amazingly insipid about her. Oh! I must tell you, that just after we parted yesterday, I saw a young man looking at you so earnestly — I am sure he is in love with you.’ Catherine coloured, and disclaimed again. Isabella laughed. ‘It is very true, upon my honour, but I see how it is; you are indifferent to everybody’s admiration, except that of one gentleman, who shall be nameless. Nay, I cannot blame you’ — speaking more seriously — ‘your feelings are easily understood. Where the heart is really attached, I know very well how little one can be pleased with the attention of anybody else. Everything is so insipid, so uninteresting, that does not relate to the beloved object! I can perfectly comprehend your feelings.’
‘我很了解你；你有如此多的活力，这正是安德鲁斯小姐想要的，因为我必须承认她有一些令人惊讶的平淡无奇。哦！我必须告诉你，昨天我们刚分手后，我看到一个年轻人如此认真地看着你——我确信他爱上了你。”凯瑟琳红了脸，再次否认。伊莎贝拉笑了。 “以我的名誉来说，这是千真万确的，但我明白是怎么回事；你对每个人的钦佩都漠不关心，除了一位绅士的钦佩，他将是无名的。不，我不能责怪你”——更严肃地说——“你的感受很容易理解。我很清楚，当心真正投入的地方，一个人很难因别人的关注而感到高兴。一切都是那么平淡、那么无趣，与心爱的对象无关！我完全理解你的感受。

‘But you should not persuade me that I think so very much about Mr. Tilney, for perhaps I may never see him again.’
“但你不应该让我相信我非常想念蒂尔尼先生，因为也许我再也见不到他了。”

‘Not see him again! My dearest creature, do not talk of it. I am sure you would be miserable if you thought so!’
‘再也见不到他了！我最亲爱的生物，不要谈论它。如果你这么想的话，我相信你会很痛苦！

‘No, indeed, I should not. I do not pretend to say that I was not very much pleased with him; but while I have Udolpho to read, I feel as if nobody could make me miserable. Oh! The dreadful black veil! My dear Isabella, I am sure there must be Laurentina’s skeleton behind it.’
“不，确实，我不应该。我并不假装说我对他不太满意；但虽然我有《乌道夫》可以读，但我觉得好像没有人能让我痛苦。哦！可怕的黑色面纱！我亲爱的伊莎贝拉，我确信它背后一定有劳伦蒂娜的骷髅。

‘It is so odd to me, that you should never have read Udolpho before; but I suppose Mrs. Morland objects to novels.’
“这对我来说太奇怪了，你以前根本不应该读过《乌道夫》；但我想莫兰夫人反对小说。

‘No, she does not. She very often reads Sir Charles Grandison herself; but new books do not fall in our way.’
“不，她没有。”她经常亲自阅读查尔斯·格兰迪森爵士的作品。但新书不会妨碍我们。

‘Sir Charles Grandison! That is an amazing horrid book, is it not? I remember Miss Andrews could not get through the first volume.’
“查尔斯·格兰迪森爵士！这是一本令人惊奇的可怕的书，不是吗？我记得安德鲁斯小姐没能读完第一卷。

‘It is not like Udolpho at all; but yet I think it is very entertaining.’
“它根本不像乌道夫；它不像乌道夫。”但我认为这非常有趣。

‘Do you indeed! You surprise me; I thought it had not been readable. But, my dearest Catherine, have you settled what to wear on your head tonight? I am determined at all events to be dressed exactly like you. The men take notice of that sometimes, you know.’
‘你确实如此！你让我惊讶；我以为它不可读。但是，我最亲爱的凯瑟琳，你决定今晚戴什么了吗？我决心无论如何都要穿得像你一样。你知道，男人们有时会注意到这一点。

‘But it does not signify if they do,’ said Catherine, very innocently.
“但即使他们这样做了也并不意味着，”凯瑟琳非常天真地说道。

‘Signify! Oh, heavens! I make it a rule never to mind what they say. They are very often amazingly impertinent if you do not treat them with spirit, and make them keep their distance.’
'表示！哦，天啊！我制定了一条规则，永远不要在意他们所说的话。如果你不以精神对待他们，让他们保持距离，他们往往会变得非常无礼。

‘Are they? Well, I never observed that. They always behave very well to me.’
‘是吗？嗯，我从来没有观察到这一点。他们对我总是表现得很好。”

‘Oh! They give themselves such airs. They are the most conceited creatures in the world, and think themselves of so much importance! By the by, though I have thought of it a hundred times, I have always forgot to ask you what is your favourite complexion in a man. Do you like them best dark or fair?’
'哦！他们摆出这样的架势。他们是世界上最自负的生物，认为自己如此重要！顺便说一句，虽然我想了一百遍，但我总是忘记问你最喜欢的男人肤色是什么。你最喜欢黑色还是白色？

‘I hardly know. I never much thought about it. Something between both, I think. Brown — not fair, and — and not very dark.’
“我几乎不知道。我从来没有想太多。我认为介于两者之间。棕色——不公平，而且——而且不是很黑。

‘Very well, Catherine. That is exactly he. I have not forgot your description of Mr. Tilney — ‘a brown skin, with dark eyes, and rather dark hair.’ Well, my taste is different. I prefer light eyes, and as to complexion — do you know — I like a sallow better than any other. You must not betray me, if you should ever meet with one of your acquaintance answering that description.’
“很好，凯瑟琳。那正是他。我没有忘记你对蒂尔尼先生的描述——“棕色皮肤，深色眼睛，深色头发。”好吧，我的品味不同。我更喜欢浅色的眼睛，至于肤色——你知道吗——我比其他人更喜欢蜡黄的肤色。如果你遇到一位熟人回答这个描述，你一定不能背叛我。

‘Betray you! What do you mean?’
‘背叛你！你是什​​么意思？'

‘Nay, do not distress me. I believe I have said too much. Let us drop the subject.’
‘不，别让我难过。我相信我说得太多了。让我们放弃这个话题吧。

Catherine, in some amazement, complied, and after remaining a few moments silent, was on the point of reverting to what interested her at that time rather more than anything else in the world, Laurentina’s skeleton, when her friend prevented her, by saying, ‘For heaven’s sake! Let us move away from this end of the room. Do you know, there are two odious young men who have been staring at me this half hour. They really put me quite out of countenance. Let us go and look at the arrivals. They will hardly follow us there.’
凯瑟琳有些惊讶地答应了，沉默了一会儿，正要回到当时最让她感兴趣的东西，劳伦蒂娜的骷髅，这时她的朋友阻止了她，说道： '看在老天的份上！让我们离开房间的这一端。你知道吗，有两个可憎的年轻人已经盯着我看了半个小时了。他们真的让我很没面子。让我们去看看抵达的人吧。他们几乎不会跟着我们去那里。

Away they walked to the book; and while Isabella examined the names, it was Catherine’s employment to watch the proceedings of these alarming young men.
他们走到那本书前；当伊莎贝拉检查这些名字时，凯瑟琳的任务就是监视这些令人震惊的年轻人的行为。

‘They are not coming this way, are they? I hope they are not so impertinent as to follow us. Pray let me know if they are coming. I am determined I will not look up.’
‘他们不会朝这边来的，是吗？我希望他们不要无礼地跟着我们。请让我知道他们是否会来。我决心不再抬头。

In a few moments Catherine, with unaffected pleasure, assured her that she need not be longer uneasy, as the gentlemen had just left the pump-room.
过了一会儿，凯瑟琳带着不做作的高兴向她保证，她不必再感到不安，因为先生们刚刚离开泵房。

‘And which way are they gone?’ said Isabella, turning hastily round. ‘One was a very good-looking young man.’
“他们往哪边走呢？”伊莎贝拉急忙转过身说道。 “其中一个是一位非常英俊的年轻人。”

‘They went towards the church-yard.’
“他们朝教堂墓地走去。”

‘Well, I am amazingly glad I have got rid of them! And now, what say you to going to Edgar’s Buildings with me, and looking at my new hat? You said you should like to see it.’
“好吧，我很高兴我摆脱了它们！现在，你觉得和我一起去埃德加大厦看看我的新帽子怎么样？你说你应该喜欢看它。

Catherine readily agreed. ‘Only,’ she added, ‘perhaps we may overtake the two young men.’
凯瑟琳爽快地答应了。 “只是，”她补充道，“也许我们可以追上那两个年轻人。”

‘Oh! Never mind that. If we make haste, we shall pass by them presently, and I am dying to show you my hat.’
'哦！不要管那个。如果我们快点，我们很快就会经过他们，我很想向你展示我的帽子。

‘But if we only wait a few minutes, there will be no danger of our seeing them at all.’
“但如果我们只等几分钟，就根本不会有看到它们的危险。”

‘I shall not pay them any such compliment, I assure you. I have no notion of treating men with such respect. That is the way to spoil them.’
“我向你保证，我不会给予他们任何这样的恭维。我没有这样尊重男人的想法。这就是宠坏他们的方法。

Catherine had nothing to oppose against such reasoning; and therefore, to show the independence of Miss Thorpe, and her resolution of humbling the sex, they set off immediately as fast as they could walk, in pursuit of the two young men.
凯瑟琳对这种推理没有什么可反对的。因此，为了显示索普小姐的独立性和她羞辱女性的决心，他们立即以最快的速度出发，追赶这两个年轻人。

Chapter 7
第7章

Half a minute conducted them through the pump-yard to the archway, opposite Union Passage; but here they were stopped. Everybody acquainted with Bath may remember the difficulties of crossing Cheap Street at this point; it is indeed a street of so impertinent a nature, so unfortunately connected with the great London and Oxford roads, and the principal inn of the city, that a day never passes in which parties of ladies, however important their business, whether in quest of pastry, millinery, or even (as in the present case) of young men, are not detained on one side or other by carriages, horsemen, or carts. This evil had been felt and lamented, at least three times a day, by Isabella since her residence in Bath; and she was now fated to feel and lament it once more, for at the very moment of coming opposite to Union Passage, and within view of the two gentlemen who were proceeding through the crowds, and threading the gutters of that interesting alley, they were prevented crossing by the approach of a gig, driven along on bad pavement by a most knowing-looking coachman with all the vehemence that could most fitly endanger the lives of himself, his companion, and his horse.
半分钟后，他们穿过泵站，到达了联合通道对面的拱门。但他们在这里被拦住了。每个熟悉巴斯的人都可能记得此时穿过廉价街的困难；它确实是一条性质如此无礼的街道，不幸的是它与伦敦和牛津的大路以及这座城市的主要客栈相连，以至于从来没有一天，女士们成群结队，无论她们的生意多么重要，无论是为了寻求糕点、女帽，甚至（如本例）年轻人，都不会被马车、骑兵或马车拘禁在一侧或另一侧。自从伊莎贝拉住在巴斯以来，她每天至少三次感受到这种邪恶并为此感到悲痛。她现在注定要再次感受到并哀叹这一点，因为就在来到联合通道对面的那一刻，在两位穿过人群、穿过那条有趣的小巷的排水沟的绅士的视野范围内，他们一辆平底车驶近，阻止了穿越，这辆平底车在糟糕的人行道上行驶，由一位看上去最有见识的车夫驾驶，其所有的激烈程度可能会危及他自己、他的同伴和他的马的生命。

‘Oh, these odious gigs!’ said Isabella, looking up. ‘How I detest them.’ But this detestation, though so just, was of short duration, for she looked again and exclaimed, ‘Delightful! Mr. Morland and my brother!’
“噢，这些可恶的演出！”伊莎贝拉抬起头说道。 “我多么厌恶他们。”不过，这种厌恶虽然如此，但持续时间很短，因为她又看了一眼，惊呼道：“太棒了！”莫兰先生和我的兄弟！

‘Good heaven! ‘Tis James!’ was uttered at the same moment by Catherine; and, on catching the young men’s eyes, the horse was immediately checked with a violence which almost threw him on his haunches, and the servant having now scampered up, the gentlemen jumped out, and the equipage was delivered to his care.
‘天堂好啊！ “这是詹姆斯！”凯瑟琳同时喊道。当看到年轻人的目光时，马立刻被猛烈地制止，几乎把他摔倒在地，仆人现在跳了起来，先生们跳了出来，马车被交给了他照顾。

Catherine, by whom this meeting was wholly unexpected, received her brother with the liveliest pleasure; and he, being of a very amiable disposition, and sincerely attached to her, gave every proof on his side of equal satisfaction, which he could have leisure to do, while the bright eyes of Miss Thorpe were incessantly challenging his notice; and to her his devoirs were speedily paid, with a mixture of joy and embarrassment which might have informed Catherine, had she been more expert in the development of other people’s feelings, and less simply engrossed by her own, that her brother thought her friend quite as pretty as she could do herself.
凯瑟琳对这次会面完全出乎意料，她非常高兴地接待了她的弟弟。他性情非常和蔼可亲，真诚地依恋她，在索普小姐明亮的眼睛不断地挑战他的注意力的时候，他可以有闲暇做这件事，他也对她表示同样的满意。对她来说，他的义务很快就得到了回报，带着一种喜悦和尴尬的混合，如果凯瑟琳更擅长发展别人的感情，而不是那么简单地全神贯注于自己的感情，她可能会告诉凯瑟琳，她哥哥认为她的朋友很她能把自己打扮得尽可能漂亮。

John Thorpe, who in the meantime had been giving orders about the horses, soon joined them, and from him she directly received the amends which were her due; for while he slightly and carelessly touched the hand of Isabella, on her he bestowed a whole scrape and half a short bow. He was a stout young man of middling height, who, with a plain face and ungraceful form, seemed fearful of being too handsome unless he wore the dress of a groom, and too much like a gentleman unless he were easy where he ought to be civil, and impudent where he might be allowed to be easy. He took out his watch: ‘How long do you think we have been running it from Tetbury, Miss Morland?’
与此同时，约翰·索普一直在下达有关马匹的命令，很快也加入了他们，她直接从他那里得到了她应得的补偿；当他轻轻地、漫不经心地触碰伊莎贝拉的手时，他给了她一整个刮擦和半个短鞠躬。他是个身材矮胖的年轻人，中等身材，相貌平平，体态不雅，唯恐穿起新郎礼服显得太英俊，除非穿得从容，否则显得太绅士。彬彬有礼，在可能允许他轻松的地方表现得无礼。他拿出手表：“莫兰小姐，你认为我们从泰特伯里开它多久了？”

‘I do not know the distance.’ Her brother told her that it was twenty-three miles.
“我不知道有多远。”她哥哥告诉她，有二十三英里。

‘Three and twenty!’ cried Thorpe. ‘Five and twenty if it is an inch.’ Morland remonstrated, pleaded the authority of road-books, innkeepers, and milestones; but his friend disregarded them all; he had a surer test of distance. ‘I know it must be five and twenty,’ said he, ‘by the time we have been doing it. It is now half after one; we drove out of the inn-yard at Tetbury as the town clock struck eleven; and I defy any man in England to make my horse go less than ten miles an hour in harness; that makes it exactly twenty-five.’
“三点和二十点！”索普喊道。 “如果是一英寸，则为五英寸和二十英寸。”莫兰抗议道，并恳求路书、旅店老板和里程碑的权威。但他的朋友没有理睬他们。他对距离进行了更可靠的测试。 “我知道我们做这件事的时候一定是五点二十了，”他说。现在已经是一半接着一半了；当镇上的时钟敲响十一点时，我们开车出了泰特伯里的旅馆院子。我敢于挑战英国任何一个人能让我的马在套上挽具后的行驶速度低于每小时十英里。正好是二十五。

‘You have lost an hour,’ said Morland; ‘it was only ten o’clock when we came from Tetbury.’
“你浪费了一个小时，”莫兰说。 “我们从泰特伯里回来的时候才十点。”

‘Ten o’clock! It was eleven, upon my soul! I counted every stroke. This brother of yours would persuade me out of my senses, Miss Morland; do but look at my horse; did you ever see an animal so made for speed in your life?’ (The servant had just mounted the carriage and was driving off.) ‘Such true blood! Three hours and and a half indeed coming only three and twenty miles! Look at that creature, and suppose it possible if you can.’
'十点钟！天啊，已经十一点了！我数了一下每一次划动。莫兰小姐，你的这位兄弟会让我失去理智的。只要看看我的马；你这辈子见过如此追求速度的动物吗？三个半小时确实只有三二十英里！看看那个生物，如果可以的话，假设这是可能的。”

‘He does look very hot, to be sure.’
“可以肯定的是，他看起来确实很性感。”

‘Hot! He had not turned a hair till we came to Walcot Church; but look at his forehand; look at his loins; only see how he moves; that horse cannot go less than ten miles an hour: tie his legs and he will get on. What do you think of my gig, Miss Morland? A neat one, is not it? Well hung; town-built; I have not had it a month. It was built for a Christchurch man, a friend of mine, a very good sort of fellow; he ran it a few weeks, till, I believe, it was convenient to have done with it. I happened just then to be looking out for some light thing of the kind, though I had pretty well determined on a curricle too; but I chanced to meet him on Magdalen Bridge, as he was driving into Oxford, last term: ‘Ah! Thorpe,’ said he, ‘do you happen to want such a little thing as this? It is a capital one of the kind, but I am cursed tired of it.’ ‘Oh! D — ,’ said I; ‘I am your man; what do you ask?’ And how much do you think he did, Miss Morland?’
'热的！直到我们来到沃尔科特教堂，他才动了一根毫毛。但看看他的正手；看看他的腰部；只看他如何移动；那匹马的时速不能低于十英里：绑住他的腿，他就能上车。莫兰小姐，你觉得我的演出怎么样？很整洁，不是吗？口若悬河的;城镇建设；我一个月没吃过。它是为基督城的一个人建造的，他是我的一个朋友，一个非常好的人。他运行了几个星期，直到我相信，可以方便地完成它为止。那时我碰巧正在寻找一些类似的轻松的东西，尽管我也对课程有了很大的决定；但上学期，当他开车去牛津时，我偶然在莫德林桥遇见了他：‘啊！索普，”他说，“你想要这样的小东西吗？这是一种最重要的方式，但我实在厌倦了。”“哦！ D——”我说； ‘我是你的男人； “你想问什么？”莫兰小姐，你认为他做了多少？

‘I am sure I cannot guess at all.’
“我确信我根本猜不出来。”

‘Curricle-hung, you see; seat, trunk, sword-case, splashing-board, lamps, silver moulding, all you see complete; the iron-work as good as new, or better. He asked fifty guineas; I closed with him directly, threw down the money, and the carriage was mine.’
“你看，课程是挂在嘴边的；座椅、行李箱、剑匣、防溅板、灯具、银饰条，你所看到的全都齐全；铁制品像新的一样，或者更好。他要了五十几尼；我直接和他成交了，扔下钱，马车就是我的了。

‘And I am sure,’ said Catherine, ‘I know so little of such things that I cannot judge whether it was cheap or dear.’
“我确信，”凯瑟琳说，“我对这些东西知之甚少，所以无法判断它是便宜还是贵。”

‘Neither one nor t’other; I might have got it for less, I dare say; but I hate haggling, and poor Freeman wanted cash.’
‘既不是一个也不是另一个；我敢说，我本来可以花更少的钱得到它；但我讨厌讨价还价，可怜的弗里曼想要现金。”

‘That was very good-natured of you,’ said Catherine, quite pleased.
“你的脾气真好，”凯瑟琳很高兴地说。

‘Oh! D — it, when one has the means of doing a kind thing by a friend, I hate to be pitiful.’
'哦！ D——它，当一个人有能力为朋友做一件好事时，我讨厌表现得可怜。

An inquiry now took place into the intended movements of the young ladies; and, on finding whither they were going, it was decided that the gentlemen should accompany them to Edgar’s Buildings, and pay their respects to Mrs. Thorpe. James and Isabella led the way; and so well satisfied was the latter with her lot, so contentedly was she endeavouring to ensure a pleasant walk to him who brought the double recommendation of being her brother’s friend, and her friend’s brother, so pure and uncoquettish were her feelings, that, though they overtook and passed the two offending young men in Milsom Street, she was so far from seeking to attract their notice, that she looked back at them only three times.
现在正在对年轻女士们的意图进行调查；找到他们要去的地方后，决定由先生们陪同他们前往埃德加大厦，并向索普夫人表示敬意。詹姆斯和伊莎贝拉带路。后者对自己的命运如此满意，她如此心满意足地努力确保他能愉快地散步，他带来了双重推荐，成为她哥哥的朋友，也是她朋友的兄弟，她的感情如此纯洁和不矫情，尽管如此，他们在米尔瑟姆街追上了并超越了那两个冒犯的年轻人，她根本没有试图引起他们的注意，以至于她只回头看了他们三眼。

John Thorpe kept of course with Catherine, and, after a few minutes’ silence, renewed the conversation about his gig. ‘You will find, however, Miss Morland, it would be reckoned a cheap thing by some people, for I might have sold it for ten guineas more the next day; Jackson, of Oriel, bid me sixty at once; Morland was with me at the time.’
约翰·索普当然继续和凯瑟琳说话，几分钟的沉默后，又重新开始谈论他的演出。 “不过，莫兰小姐，你会发现，有些人会认为它很便宜，因为第二天我可能会多卖十几尼；奥里尔的杰克逊立即给我出六十块；当时莫兰和我在一起。

‘Yes,’ said Morland, who overheard this; ‘but you forget that your horse was included.’
“是的，”莫兰无意中听到了这句话，说道。 “但你忘了你的马也包括在内。”

‘My horse! Oh, d — it! I would not sell my horse for a hundred. Are you fond of an open carriage, Miss Morland?’
'我的马！哦，d——它！我不会以一百块钱卖掉我的马。莫兰小姐，你喜欢敞篷马车吗？

‘Yes, very; I have hardly ever an opportunity of being in one; but I am particularly fond of it.’
‘是的，非常；我几乎没有机会参与其中；但我特别喜欢它。

‘I am glad of it; I will drive you out in mine every day.’
‘我很高兴；我每天都会把你从我的车里赶出去。

‘Thank you,’ said Catherine, in some distress, from a doubt of the propriety of accepting such an offer.
“谢谢你。”凯瑟琳有些苦恼地说，她怀疑接受这样的提议是否合适。

‘I will drive you up Lansdown Hill tomorrow.’
“明天我会开车送你上兰斯当山。”

‘Thank you; but will not your horse want rest?’
'谢谢;但你的马不想休息吗？

‘Rest! He has only come three and twenty miles today; all nonsense; nothing ruins horses so much as rest; nothing knocks them up so soon. No, no; I shall exercise mine at the average of four hours every day while I am here.’
'休息！他今天只走了三二十英里；都是废话；没有什么比休息更能毁掉马匹了。没有什么能这么快让他们振作起来。不，不;当我在这里的时候，我将平均每天锻炼四个小时。

‘Shall you indeed!’ said Catherine very seriously. ‘That will be forty miles a day.’
“真的吗？”凯瑟琳非常严肃地说。 “每天要行驶四十英里。”

‘Forty! Aye, fifty, for what I care. Well, I will drive you up Lansdown tomorrow; mind, I am engaged.’
'四十！是的，五十岁了，这是我所关心的。好吧，明天我开车送你去兰斯当；请注意，我已经订婚了。

‘How delightful that will be!’ cried Isabella, turning round. ‘My dearest Catherine, I quite envy you; but I am afraid, brother, you will not have room for a third.’
“那将是多么令人愉快啊！”伊莎贝拉转过身喊道。 “我最亲爱的凯瑟琳，我很羡慕你；但我担心，兄弟，你没有足够的空间容纳第三个。

‘A third indeed! No, no; I did not come to Bath to drive my sisters about; that would be a good joke, faith! Morland must take care of you.’
‘确实是第三个！不，不;我来巴斯不是为了开车送我的姐妹们到处走；我是来巴斯的。这将是一个很好的笑话，信仰！莫兰必须照顾你。

This brought on a dialogue of civilities between the other two; but Catherine heard neither the particulars nor the result. Her companion’s discourse now sunk from its hitherto animated pitch to nothing more than a short decisive sentence of praise or condemnation on the face of every woman they met; and Catherine, after listening and agreeing as long as she could, with all the civility and deference of the youthful female mind, fearful of hazarding an opinion of its own in opposition to that of a self-assured man, especially where the beauty of her own sex is concerned, ventured at length to vary the subject by a question which had been long uppermost in her thoughts; it was, ‘Have you ever read Udolpho, Mr. Thorpe?’
这引起了另外两人之间的礼貌对话。但凯瑟琳既没有听到细节，也没有听到结果。她同伴的话语现在从之前的热烈声调降到了他们遇到的每一位女性脸上简短、果断的赞扬或谴责的句子。而凯瑟琳，在尽可能长时间地倾听和同意之后，带着年轻女性心灵的所有礼貌和尊重，担心自己的观点会与一个自信的男人相反，尤其是在她美丽的地方谈到自己的性别，她终于大胆地用一个长期以来一直是她最重要的问题来转移话题。问题是，“索普先生，你读过《乌道夫》吗？”

‘Udolpho! Oh, Lord! Not I; I never read novels; I have something else to do.’
‘乌道夫！我的天！不是我；我从来不读小说；我还有别的事要做。

Catherine, humbled and ashamed, was going to apologize for her question, but he prevented her by saying, ‘Novels are all so full of nonsense and stuff; there has not been a tolerably decent one come out since Tom Jones, except The Monk; I read that t’other day; but as for all the others, they are the stupidest things in creation.’
凯瑟琳感到谦卑和羞愧，正想为她的问题道歉，但他阻止了她，说：“小说里都是废话和东西；自《汤姆·琼斯》以来，除了《僧侣》之外，还没有出现过一部还算不错的作品。我前几天读过那篇文章；但至于其他所有的东西，它们是创造中最愚蠢的东西。

‘I think you must like Udolpho, if you were to read it; it is so very interesting.’
“我想如果你读这本书，你一定会喜欢《乌道夫》；这太有趣了。”

‘Not I, faith! No, if I read any, it shall be Mrs. Radcliffe’s; her novels are amusing enough; they are worth reading; some fun and nature in them.’
‘不是我，信仰！不，如果我读到的话，那一定是拉德克利夫夫人的；她的小说很有趣；它们值得一读；其中有一些乐趣和自然。”

‘Udolpho was written by Mrs. Radcliffe,’ said Catherine, with some hesitation, from the fear of mortifying him.
“《乌道夫》是拉德克利夫夫人写的。”凯瑟琳犹豫了一下，生怕让他丢脸。

‘No sure; was it? Aye, I remember, so it was; I was thinking of that other stupid book, written by that woman they make such a fuss about, she who married the French emigrant.’
'不确定;是吗？是的，我记得，确实如此；我想起了另一本愚蠢的书，是他们大惊小怪的那个女人写的，她嫁给了法国移民。

‘I suppose you mean Camilla?’
“我想你指的是卡米拉？”

‘Yes, that’s the book; such unnatural stuff! An old man playing at see-saw, I took up the first volume once and looked it over, but I soon found it would not do; indeed I guessed what sort of stuff it must be before I saw it: as soon as I heard she had married an emigrant, I was sure I should never be able to get through it.’
“是的，就是那本书；”这么不自然的东西！一个玩跷跷板的老人，我拿起第一卷看了一遍，但很快就发现不行；事实上，在我看到它之前，我就猜到了它一定是什么东西：当我听说她嫁给了一个移民时，我确信我永远无法度过这一切。

‘I have never read it.’
“我从来没有读过。”

‘You had no loss, I assure you; it is the horridest nonsense you can imagine; there is nothing in the world in it but an old man’s playing at see-saw and learning Latin; upon my soul there is not.’
“我向你保证，你没有损失；这是你能想象到的最可怕的胡言乱语；里面除了一个老人玩跷跷板和学习拉丁语外，什么也没有。在我的灵魂里没有。

This critique, the justness of which was unfortunately lost on poor Catherine, brought them to the door of Mrs. Thorpe’s lodgings, and the feelings of the discerning and unprejudiced reader of Camilla gave way to the feelings of the dutiful and affectionate son, as they met Mrs. Thorpe, who had descried them from above, in the passage. ‘Ah, Mother! How do you do?’ said he, giving her a hearty shake of the hand. ‘Where did you get that quiz of a hat? It makes you look like an old witch. Here is Morland and I come to stay a few days with you, so you must look out for a couple of good beds somewhere near.’ And this address seemed to satisfy all the fondest wishes of the mother’s heart, for she received him with the most delighted and exulting affection. On his two younger sisters he then bestowed an equal portion of his fraternal tenderness, for he asked each of them how they did, and observed that they both looked very ugly.
不幸的是，可怜的凯瑟琳失去了这种批评的公正性，他们把他们带到了索普夫人的住所门口，卡米拉的挑剔和不带偏见的读者的感情让位给了孝顺和深情的儿子的感情，因为他们在过道里遇见了索普夫人，她从上面描述了他们。 ‘啊，妈妈！你好吗？”他说，并热情地与她握手。 “你从哪里得到关于帽子的测验？它让你看起来像个老巫婆。这是莫兰，我来和你住几天，所以你必须在附近找几张好床。”这个地址似乎满足了母亲心中所有最美好的愿望，因为她用最令人高兴和欣喜的感情。他对两个妹妹也给予了同等的兄弟般的温柔，他问她们一个人过得怎么样，发现她们都长得很丑。

These manners did not please Catherine; but he was James’s friend and Isabella’s brother; and her judgment was further bought off by Isabella’s assuring her, when they withdrew to see the new hat, that John thought her the most charming girl in the world, and by John’s engaging her before they parted to dance with him that evening. Had she been older or vainer, such attacks might have done little; but, where youth and diffidence are united, it requires uncommon steadiness of reason to resist the attraction of being called the most charming girl in the world, and of being so very early engaged as a partner; and the consequence was that, when the two Morlands, after sitting an hour with the Thorpes, set off to walk together to Mr. Allen’s, and James, as the door was closed on them, said, ‘Well, Catherine, how do you like my friend Thorpe?’ instead of answering, as she probably would have done, had there been no friendship and no flattery in the case, ‘I do not like him at all,’ she directly replied, ‘I like him very much; he seems very agreeable.’
凯瑟琳不喜欢这些举止。但他是詹姆斯的朋友和伊莎贝拉的兄弟；当他们离开去看那顶新帽子时，伊莎贝拉向她保证约翰认为她是世界上最迷人的女孩，而且那天晚上在他们分手和他跳舞之前约翰就与她交往，这进一步证实了她的判断。如果她年纪大一些，或者虚荣一些，这样的攻击可能起不了多大作用。但是，当年轻和自信结合在一起时，就需要异常稳定的理性来抵制被称为世界上最迷人的女孩以及这么早就订婚作为伴侣的吸引力；结果是，当莫兰夫妇和索普一家坐了一个小时后，一起出发去艾伦先生家时，詹姆斯在门对他们关上时说：“好吧，凯瑟琳，你怎么样？”就像我的朋友索普一样？”如果没有友谊和奉承的话，她可能会这样做，而不是回答“我一点也不喜欢他”，她直接回答道，“我非常喜欢他；我很喜欢他。”他看起来很和蔼可亲。

‘He is as good-natured a fellow as ever lived; a little of a rattle; but that will recommend him to your sex, I believe: and how do you like the rest of the family?’
“他是一个一如既往的好脾气的人；有点嘎嘎声；但这会把他推荐给你的性别，我相信：你喜欢家里的其他人吗？

‘Very, very much indeed: Isabella particularly.’
“确实非常非常：尤其是伊莎贝拉。”

‘I am very glad to hear you say so; she is just the kind of young woman I could wish to see you attached to; she has so much good sense, and is so thoroughly unaffected and amiable; I always wanted you to know her; and she seems very fond of you. She said the highest things in your praise that could possibly be; and the praise of such a girl as Miss Thorpe even you, Catherine,’ taking her hand with affection, ‘may be proud of.’
‘我很高兴听到你这么说；她就是那种我希望看到你喜欢的年轻女子；她很有理智，而且完全不做作，而且和蔼可亲。我一直想让你认识她；她看起来很喜欢你。她说了对你最崇高的赞美之词； “凯瑟琳，”深情地握着她的手，“对索普小姐这样的女孩的赞扬，连你都会感到自豪。”

‘Indeed I am,’ she replied; ‘I love her exceedingly, and am delighted to find that you like her too. You hardly mentioned anything of her when you wrote to me after your visit there.’
“确实如此，”她回答道。 “我非常爱她，很高兴发现你也喜欢她。当你访问那里后给我写信时，你几乎没有提到她。

‘Because I thought I should soon see you myself. I hope you will be a great deal together while you are in Bath. She is a most amiable girl; such a superior understanding! How fond all the family are of her; she is evidently the general favourite; and how much she must be admired in such a place as this — is not she?’
“因为我想我很快就会亲自见到你。我希望你们在巴斯期间能够多多交流。她是一个非常和蔼可亲的女孩；如此高超的理解力！全家人都多么喜爱她啊！她显然是最受欢迎的。在这样的地方，她一定会受到多少钦佩——不是吗？

‘Yes, very much indeed, I fancy; Mr. Allen thinks her the prettiest girl in Bath.’
“是的，确实如此，我想；艾伦先生认为她是巴斯最漂亮的女孩。

‘I dare say he does; and I do not know any man who is a better judge of beauty than Mr. Allen. I need not ask you whether you are happy here, my dear Catherine; with such a companion and friend as Isabella Thorpe, it would be impossible for you to be otherwise; and the Allens, I am sure, are very kind to you?’
“我敢说他做到了；我不知道有谁比艾伦先生更能判断美丽。我不需要问你在这里是否快乐，我亲爱的凯瑟琳；有伊莎贝拉·索普这样的同伴和朋友，你不可能不这样；我确信艾伦一家对你很好？

‘Yes, very kind; I never was so happy before; and now you are come it will be more delightful than ever; how good it is of you to come so far on purpose to see me.’
‘是的，非常友善；我从来没有这么高兴过；现在你来了，这将比以往任何时候都更加令人愉快；你特意跑这么远来看我真是太好了。”

James accepted this tribute of gratitude, and qualified his conscience for accepting it too, by saying with perfect sincerity, ‘Indeed, Catherine, I love you dearly.’
詹姆斯接受了这份感激之情，并以完全真诚的态度说，“确实，凯瑟琳，我深深地爱着你。”

Inquiries and communications concerning brothers and sisters, the situation of some, the growth of the rest, and other family matters now passed between them, and continued, with only one small digression on James’s part, in praise of Miss Thorpe, till they reached Pulteney Street, where he was welcomed with great kindness by Mr. and Mrs. Allen, invited by the former to dine with them, and summoned by the latter to guess the price and weigh the merits of a new muff and tippet. A pre-engagement in Edgar’s Buildings prevented his accepting the invitation of one friend, and obliged him to hurry away as soon as he had satisfied the demands of the other. The time of the two parties uniting in the Octagon Room being correctly adjusted, Catherine was then left to the luxury of a raised, restless, and frightened imagination over the pages of Udolpho, lost from all worldly concerns of dressing and dinner, incapable of soothing Mrs. Allen’s fears on the delay of an expected dressmaker, and having only one minute in sixty to bestow even on the reflection of her own felicity, in being already engaged for the evening.
关于兄弟姐妹、一些人的处境、其他人的成长以及其他家庭事务的询问和交流现在在他们之间传递，并且继续进行，詹姆斯只说了一小段题外话，赞扬索普小姐，直到他们到达普尔特尼在那里，他受到了艾伦先生和夫人的盛情款待，前者邀请他与他们共进晚餐，后者则叫他猜价格并权衡新手筒和披肩的优点。由于在埃德加大厦的预先订婚，他无法接受一位朋友的邀请，并迫使他在满足了另一位朋友的要求后就匆匆离开。两方在八角形房间会合的时间得到了正确的调整，凯瑟琳在《乌道夫》的书页上沉浸在浮夸、不安和恐惧的想象中，迷失了所有世俗的穿衣和晚餐问题，无法舒缓情绪。艾伦太太担心预定的裁缝会迟到，而且只有六十十分之一分钟的时间来思考她自己的幸福，因为今晚已经订婚了。

Chapter 8
第8章

In spite of Udolpho and the dressmaker, however, the party from Pulteney Street reached the Upper Rooms in very good time. The Thorpes and James Morland were there only two minutes before them; and Isabella having gone through the usual ceremonial of meeting her friend with the most smiling and affectionate haste, of admiring the set of her gown, and envying the curl of her hair, they followed their chaperones, arm in arm, into the ballroom, whispering to each other whenever a thought occurred, and supplying the place of many ideas by a squeeze of the hand or a smile of affection.
然而，尽管有乌道夫和裁缝，来自普尔特尼街的一行人还是很及时地到达了上层房间。索普斯夫妇和詹姆斯·莫兰夫妇只比他们早两分钟到达。伊莎贝拉完成了通常的仪式，以最微笑和最深情的匆忙迎接她的朋友，欣赏她的礼服，羡慕她的卷发，他们跟随他们的伴侣，手挽着手，走进舞厅，窃窃私语每当一个想法出现时，彼此都会互相交流，并通过握手或深情的微笑来代替许多想法。

The dancing began within a few minutes after they were seated; and James, who had been engaged quite as long as his sister, was very importunate with Isabella to stand up; but John was gone into the card-room to speak to a friend, and nothing, she declared, should induce her to join the set before her dear Catherine could join it too. ‘I assure you,’ said she, ‘I would not stand up without your dear sister for all the world; for if I did we should certainly be separated the whole evening.’ Catherine accepted this kindness with gratitude, and they continued as they were for three minutes longer, when Isabella, who had been talking to James on the other side of her, turned again to his sister and whispered, ‘My dear creature, I am afraid I must leave you, your brother is so amazingly impatient to begin; I know you will not mind my going away, and I dare say John will be back in a moment, and then you may easily find me out.’ Catherine, though a little disappointed, had too much good nature to make any opposition, and the others rising up, Isabella had only time to press her friend’s hand and say, ‘Good-bye, my dear love,’ before they hurried off. The younger Miss Thorpes being also dancing, Catherine was left to the mercy of Mrs. Thorpe and Mrs. Allen, between whom she now remained. She could not help being vexed at the non-appearance of Mr. Thorpe, for she not only longed to be dancing, but was likewise aware that, as the real dignity of her situation could not be known, she was sharing with the scores of other young ladies still sitting down all the discredit of wanting a partner. To be disgraced in the eye of the world, to wear the appearance of infamy while her heart is all purity, her actions all innocence, and the misconduct of another the true source of her debasement, is one of those circumstances which peculiarly belong to the heroine’s life, and her fortitude under it what particularly dignifies her character. Catherine had fortitude too; she suffered, but no murmur passed her lips.
他们入座后几分钟，舞蹈就开始了。詹姆斯和他妹妹订婚的时间一样长，他极力劝说伊莎贝拉站起来。但约翰正在去棋牌室和一位朋友说话，她宣称，在她亲爱的凯瑟琳也加入之前，没有什么可以诱使她加入。 “我向你保证，”她说，“如果没有你亲爱的妹妹，我绝对不会站起来；凯瑟琳感激地接受了这种善意，他们继续这样持续了三分钟，这时伊莎贝拉在她的另一边正在和詹姆斯说话，她又转过身来。对他的妹妹低声说道：“我亲爱的孩子，恐怕我必须离开你了，你的兄弟是如此不耐烦地开始；”我知道你不会介意我离开，而且我敢说约翰一会儿就会回来，到时候你就很容易找到我了。”凯瑟琳虽然有些失望，但本性太好，不会提出任何反对，其他人都起身了，伊莎贝拉只来得及握住朋友的手说：“再见，我亲爱的爱人。”然后他们就匆匆离开了。小索普斯小姐也在跳舞，凯瑟琳只能听凭索普夫人和艾伦夫人摆布，现在她就留在他们中间了。她不禁对索普先生的缺席感到恼火，因为她不仅渴望跳舞，而且同样意识到，由于她的处境的真正尊严无法得知，她正在与几十个朋友分享。其他年轻女士仍然坐着寻找伴侣的所有耻辱。 在世人眼中蒙羞，外表臭名昭著，而她的内心是纯洁的，她的行为是纯真的，而另一个人的不当行为是她被贬低的真正根源，这是特别属于女性的情况之一。女主人公的一生，以及她的坚忍不拔，使她的性格显得格外高贵。凯瑟琳也很坚强。她很痛苦，但嘴里却没有发出任何怨言。

From this state of humiliation, she was roused, at the end of ten minutes, to a pleasanter feeling, by seeing, not Mr. Thorpe, but Mr. Tilney, within three yards of the place where they sat; he seemed to be moving that way, but he did not see her, and therefore the smile and the blush, which his sudden reappearance raised in Catherine, passed away without sullying her heroic importance. He looked as handsome and as lively as ever, and was talking with interest to a fashionable and pleasing-looking young woman, who leant on his arm, and whom Catherine immediately guessed to be his sister; thus unthinkingly throwing away a fair opportunity of considering him lost to her forever, by being married already. But guided only by what was simple and probable, it had never entered her head that Mr. Tilney could be married; he had not behaved, he had not talked, like the married men to whom she had been used; he had never mentioned a wife, and he had acknowledged a sister. From these circumstances sprang the instant conclusion of his sister’s now being by his side; and therefore, instead of turning of a deathlike paleness and falling in a fit on Mrs. Allen’s bosom, Catherine sat erect, in the perfect use of her senses, and with cheeks only a little redder than usual.
十分钟后，她从这种屈辱的状态中醒来，有了一种更愉快的感觉，因为她看到的不是索普先生，而是蒂尔尼先生，就在距离他们坐的地方三码远的地方。他似乎正朝那个方向走，但他没有看到她，因此，他的突然出现在凯瑟琳身上引起的微笑和红晕消失了，但没有玷污她英雄般的重要性。他看上去一如既往的英俊、活泼，正饶有兴趣地和一位时尚、讨人喜欢的年轻女子交谈，她靠在他的手臂上，凯瑟琳立刻就猜到她是他的妹妹。就这样，不假思索地放弃了一个公平的机会，让她认为他已经结婚了，永远失去了他。但仅仅出于简单和可能的考虑，她从来没有想过蒂尔尼先生会结婚；她从来没有想过蒂尔尼先生会结婚。他的行为举止和说话方式都不像那些曾被她利用过的已婚男人。他从来没有提过妻子，却承认有一个妹妹。从这些情况中，他立即得出结论，他的妹妹现在就在他身边。因此，凯瑟琳并没有脸色苍白，倒在艾伦太太的胸前，而是坐直了身子，完美地运用了她的感官，脸颊只比平时稍微红了一点。

Mr. Tilney and his companion, who continued, though slowly, to approach, were immediately preceded by a lady, an acquaintance of Mrs. Thorpe; and this lady stopping to speak to her, they, as belonging to her, stopped likewise, and Catherine, catching Mr. Tilney’s eye, instantly received from him the smiling tribute of recognition. She returned it with pleasure, and then advancing still nearer, he spoke both to her and Mrs. Allen, by whom he was very civilly acknowledged. ‘I am very happy to see you again, sir, indeed; I was afraid you had left Bath.’ He thanked her for her fears, and said that he had quitted it for a week, on the very morning after his having had the pleasure of seeing her.
蒂尔尼先生和他的同伴虽然缓慢地继续走近，但紧随其后的是一位女士，她是索普太太的熟人。这位女士停下来与她说话，他们，因为属于她，也同样停下来，凯瑟琳，与蒂尔尼先生的目光相遇，立即从他那里得到了微笑的认可。她高兴地回礼，然后他走得更近了，他对她和艾伦夫人说话，艾伦夫人非常有礼貌地承认了他。 “确实，我很高兴再次见到您，先生；我担心你已经离开巴斯了。”他感谢她的担心，并说他已经放弃了一周，就在他有幸见到她后的第二天早上。

‘Well, sir, and I dare say you are not sorry to be back again, for it is just the place for young people — and indeed for everybody else too. I tell Mr. Allen, when he talks of being sick of it, that I am sure he should not complain, for it is so very agreeable a place, that it is much better to be here than at home at this dull time of year. I tell him he is quite in luck to be sent here for his health.’
“好吧，先生，我敢说您对再次回来并不感到遗憾，因为这只是年轻人的地方——实际上也适合其他人。我告诉艾伦先生，当他谈到厌倦了这里时，我确信他不应该抱怨，因为这是一个非常令人愉快的地方，在一年中这个沉闷的时间在这里比在家里要好得多。我告诉他，他很幸运能够为了健康而被送到这里。”

‘And I hope, madam, that Mr. Allen will be obliged to like the place, from finding it of service to him.’
“女士，我希望艾伦先生会喜欢这个地方，因为他发现这里对他很有帮助。”

‘Thank you, sir. I have no doubt that he will. A neighbour of ours, Dr. Skinner, was here for his health last winter, and came away quite stout.’
'谢谢你，先生。我毫不怀疑他会的。我们的邻居斯金纳医生去年冬天来这儿检查身体，回来时身体很健壮。

‘That circumstance must give great encouragement.’
“这种情况一定会给予很大的鼓励。”


‘Yes, sir — and Dr. Skinner and his family were here three months; so I tell Mr. Allen he must not be in a hurry to get away.’
“是的，先生——斯金纳博士和他的家人在这里待了三个月；所以我告诉艾伦先生，他一定不要急于逃跑。

Here they were interrupted by a request from Mrs. Thorpe to Mrs. Allen, that she would move a little to accommodate Mrs. Hughes and Miss Tilney with seats, as they had agreed to join their party. This was accordingly done, Mr. Tilney still continuing standing before them; and after a few minutes’ consideration, he asked Catherine to dance with him. This compliment, delightful as it was, produced severe mortification to the lady; and in giving her denial, she expressed her sorrow on the occasion so very much as if she really felt it that had Thorpe, who joined her just afterwards, been half a minute earlier, he might have thought her sufferings rather too acute. The very easy manner in which he then told her that he had kept her waiting did not by any means reconcile her more to her lot; nor did the particulars which he entered into while they were standing up, of the horses and dogs of the friend whom he had just left, and of a proposed exchange of terriers between them, interest her so much as to prevent her looking very often towards that part of the room where she had left Mr. Tilney. Of her dear Isabella, to whom she particularly longed to point out that gentleman, she could see nothing. They were in different sets. She was separated from all her party, and away from all her acquaintance; one mortification succeeded another, and from the whole she deduced this useful lesson, that to go previously engaged to a ball does not necessarily increase either the dignity or enjoyment of a young lady. From such a moralizing strain as this, she was suddenly roused by a touch on the shoulder, and turning round, perceived Mrs. Hughes directly behind her, attended by Miss Tilney and a gentleman. ‘I beg your pardon, Miss Morland,’ said she, ‘for this liberty — but I cannot anyhow get to Miss Thorpe, and Mrs. Thorpe said she was sure you would not have the least objection to letting in this young lady by you.’ Mrs. Hughes could not have applied to any creature in the room more happy to oblige her than Catherine. The young ladies were introduced to each other, Miss Tilney expressing a proper sense of such goodness, Miss Morland with the real delicacy of a generous mind making light of the obligation; and Mrs. Hughes, satisfied with having so respectably settled her young charge, returned to her party.
说到这里，他们被索普夫人向艾伦夫人提出的请求打断了，艾伦夫人请求她稍稍挪动一下位置，为休斯夫人和蒂尔尼小姐安排座位，因为他们已经同意加入他们的队伍了。蒂尔尼先生仍然站在他们面前，这件事就这样完成了。经过几分钟的考虑，他邀请凯瑟琳和他跳舞。这种恭维话虽然令人高兴，却让这位女士感到非常羞愧。在否认的同时，她表达了自己当时的悲伤，仿佛她真的感觉到，如果索普早半分钟就到了她身边，他可能会认为她的痛苦太严重了。然后他以非常轻松的方式告诉她，他让她久等了，但这并没有让她更加接受自己的命运。当他们站起来时，他所谈到的细节，他刚刚离开的朋友的马和狗，以及他们之间拟议的猎犬交换，都没有引起她的兴趣，以至于阻止她经常看向他。她离开蒂尔尼先生的那部分房间。至于她亲爱的伊莎贝拉，她特别想向她指出那位绅士，但她却什么也看不见。他们分在不同的组。她与她的同伴和所有熟人都分开了。羞辱接踵而至，从整体上她得出了这一有用的教训：以前订婚的舞会并不一定会增加年轻女士的尊严或乐趣。从这样的说教压力中，她突然被肩膀上的一触惊醒，转过身来，发现休斯太太就在她身后，旁边有蒂尔尼小姐和一位绅士。 “请您原谅，莫兰小姐，”她说，“但我无论如何都无法去找索普小姐，索普夫人说她相信您不会有丝毫反对让这位年轻女士进来。”休斯太太不可能找到房间里比凯瑟琳更乐意帮助她的人了。两位年轻女士被介绍给彼此，蒂尔尼小姐表达了对这种善良的正确认识，莫兰小姐则表现出真正的微妙，慷慨的心灵，轻视了义务；休斯夫人对如此体面地解决了她年轻的负担感到满意，回到了她的聚会。

Miss Tilney had a good figure, a pretty face, and a very agreeable countenance; and her air, though it had not all the decided pretension, the resolute stylishness of Miss Thorpe’s, had more real elegance. Her manners showed good sense and good breeding; they were neither shy nor affectedly open; and she seemed capable of being young, attractive, and at a ball without wanting to fix the attention of every man near her, and without exaggerated feelings of ecstatic delight or inconceivable vexation on every little trifling occurrence. Catherine, interested at once by her appearance and her relationship to Mr. Tilney, was desirous of being acquainted with her, and readily talked therefore whenever she could think of anything to say, and had courage and leisure for saying it. But the hindrance thrown in the way of a very speedy intimacy, by the frequent want of one or more of these requisites, prevented their doing more than going through the first rudiments of an acquaintance, by informing themselves how well the other liked Bath, how much she admired its buildings and surrounding country, whether she drew, or played, or sang, and whether she was fond of riding on horseback.
蒂尔尼小姐身材姣好，面容漂亮，面容十分和蔼可亲。她的神态虽然没有索普小姐那样的那种坚决的装腔作势和坚决的时尚感，但更多的是真正的优雅。她的举止表现出良好的理智和良好的教养。他们既不害羞，也不故作开放；她看起来很年轻，很有魅力，参加舞会时不想引起周围每个男人的注意，也不会因为每一件小事而表现出夸张的欣喜若狂或难以想象的烦恼。凯瑟琳立刻对她的外表和她与蒂尔尼先生的关系感兴趣，渴望结识她，因此，只要她能想到要说的话，并且有勇气和闲暇说出来，她就很乐意与她交谈。但是，由于经常缺乏这些必需品中的一个或多个，因此阻碍了快速建立亲密关系，这阻碍了他们做更多的事情，而不仅仅是通过了解对方如何喜欢巴斯，如何了解对方的初步认识。她非常欣赏这里的建筑和周围的乡村，无论她画画、玩耍、唱歌，也无论她是否喜欢骑马。

The two dances were scarcely concluded before Catherine found her arm gently seized by her faithful Isabella, who in great spirits exclaimed, ‘At last I have got you. My dearest creature, I have been looking for you this hour. What could induce you to come into this set, when you knew I was in the other? I have been quite wretched without you.’
两支舞刚结束，凯瑟琳就发现她忠实的伊莎贝拉轻轻地抓住了她的手臂，她兴高采烈地喊道：“我终于抓住了你。”我最亲爱的生物，这个小时我一直在寻找你。当你知道我在另一组时，什么会促使你加入这一组？没有你，我过得很痛苦。

‘My dear Isabella, how was it possible for me to get at you? I could not even see where you were.’
“我亲爱的伊莎贝拉，我怎么可能找到你呢？我什至看不到你在哪里。

‘So I told your brother all the time — but he would not believe me. Do go and see for her, Mr. Morland, said I — but all in vain — he would not stir an inch. Was not it so, Mr. Morland? But you men are all so immoderately lazy! I have been scolding him to such a degree, my dear Catherine, you would be quite amazed. You know I never stand upon ceremony with such people.’
“所以我一直告诉你的兄弟——但他不相信我。一定要去看看她，莫兰先生，我说——但一切都是徒劳——他一动不动。莫兰先生，不是这样吗？但你们男人实在是太懒了！我已经骂他到这种程度了，亲爱的凯瑟琳，你一定会很惊讶的。你知道我对这样的人从来不讲礼数。

‘Look at that young lady with the white beads round her head,’ whispered Catherine, detaching her friend from James. ‘It is Mr. Tilney’s sister.’
“看看那个头上戴着白色珠子的年轻女士，”凯瑟琳低声说道，将她的朋友与詹姆斯分开。 “这是蒂尔尼先生的妹妹。”

‘Oh! Heavens! You don’t say so! Let me look at her this moment. What a delightful girl! I never saw anything half so beautiful! But where is her all-conquering brother? Is he in the room? Point him out to me this instant, if he is. I die to see him. Mr. Morland, you are not to listen. We are not talking about you.’
'哦！天！你不这么说！让我此刻看着她。多么令人愉快的女孩啊！我从未见过如此美丽的东西！可她那个无坚不摧的哥哥呢？他在房间里吗？立即把他指给我看，如果他是的话。我死要见他。莫兰先生，你不许听。我们不是在谈论你。

‘But what is all this whispering about? What is going on?’
“但是这些窃窃私语到底是为了什么呢？到底是怎么回事？'

‘There now, I knew how it would be. You men have such restless curiosity! Talk of the curiosity of women, indeed! ‘Tis nothing. But be satisfied, for you are not to know anything at all of the matter.’
‘现在，我知道事情会怎样了。你们人类的好奇心真是无穷无尽！确实，谈论女性的好奇心！没什么。但请放心，因为你对这件事一无所知。

‘And is that likely to satisfy me, do you think?’
“你认为这能让我满意吗？”

‘Well, I declare I never knew anything like you. What can it signify to you, what we are talking of. Perhaps we are talking about you; therefore I would advise you not to listen, or you may happen to hear something not very agreeable.’
“好吧，我声明我从来不认识像你这样的人。它对你意味着什么，我们正在谈论什么。也许我们正在谈论你；所以我建议你不要听，否则你可能会听到一些不太舒服的声音。

In this commonplace chatter, which lasted some time, the original subject seemed entirely forgotten; and though Catherine was very well pleased to have it dropped for a while, she could not avoid a little suspicion at the total suspension of all Isabella’s impatient desire to see Mr. Tilney. When the orchestra struck up a fresh dance, James would have led his fair partner away, but she resisted. ‘I tell you, Mr. Morland,’ she cried, ‘I would not do such a thing for all the world. How can you be so teasing; only conceive, my dear Catherine, what your brother wants me to do. He wants me to dance with him again, though I tell him that it is a most improper thing, and entirely against the rules. It would make us the talk of the place, if we were not to change partners.’
在这种持续了一段时间的平淡无奇的闲聊中，原来的话题似乎完全被遗忘了。虽然凯瑟琳很高兴这件事暂时搁置了，但她无法避免对伊莎贝拉想要见蒂尔尼先生的所有急切愿望完全停止感到怀疑。当管弦乐队奏起一支新的舞蹈时，詹姆斯本想带着他美丽的舞伴离开，但她拒绝了。 “我告诉你，莫兰先生，”她喊道，“我无论如何都不会做这样的事。”你怎么可以这么调侃；亲爱的凯瑟琳，请想象你哥哥要我做什么。他想让我再次和他跳舞，尽管我告诉他这是一件非常不恰当的事情，而且完全违反规则。如果我们不更换合作伙伴，这会让我们成为当地的话题。”

‘Upon my honour,’ said James, ‘in these public assemblies, it is as often done as not.’
“以我的名誉担保，”詹姆斯说道，“在这些公共集会中，这样做的情况时有发生。”

‘Nonsense, how can you say so? But when you men have a point to carry, you never stick at anything. My sweet Catherine, do support me; persuade your brother how impossible it is. Tell him that it would quite shock you to see me do such a thing; now would not it?’
‘废话，你怎么能这么说？但当你们男人有自己的主张时，你们就不会坚持任何事情。我亲爱的凯瑟琳，请支持我；说服你的兄弟这是多么不可能。告诉他，看到我做这样的事你一定会很震惊；现在不是吗？

‘No, not at all; but if you think it wrong, you had much better change.’
'一点都不;但如果你认为这是错的，你最好改变一下。”

‘There,’ cried Isabella, ‘you hear what your sister says, and yet you will not mind her. Well, remember that it is not my fault, if we set all the old ladies in Bath in a bustle. Come along, my dearest Catherine, for heaven’s sake, and stand by me.’ And off they went, to regain their former place. John Thorpe, in the meanwhile, had walked away; and Catherine, ever willing to give Mr. Tilney an opportunity of repeating the agreeable request which had already flattered her once, made her way to Mrs. Allen and Mrs. Thorpe as fast as she could, in the hope of finding him still with them — a hope which, when it proved to be fruitless, she felt to have been highly unreasonable. ‘Well, my dear,’ said Mrs. Thorpe, impatient for praise of her son, ‘I hope you have had an agreeable partner.’
“好了，”伊莎贝拉喊道，“你听到了你妹妹说的话，但你不会介意她。好吧，请记住，如果我们让巴斯所有的老太太都忙起来，那不是我的错。来吧，我最亲爱的凯瑟琳，看在上帝的份上，站在我这边。”然后他们就出发了，回到原来的位置。与此同时，约翰·索普已经走开了。凯瑟琳总是愿意给蒂尔尼先生一个机会，重复曾经让她受宠若惊的令人愉快的请求，她以最快的速度走向艾伦夫人和索普夫人，希望找到他仍然和他们在一起。 ——当这个希望被证明没有结果时，她觉得自己非常不合理。 “好吧，亲爱的，”索普夫人迫不及待地想要夸奖她的儿子，“我希望你有一个称心如意的伴侣。”

‘Very agreeable, madam.’
“非常满意，女士。”

‘I am glad of it. John has charming spirits, has not he?’
‘我对此很高兴。约翰有迷人的精神，不是吗？

‘Did you meet Mr. Tilney, my dear?’ said Mrs. Allen.
“亲爱的，你见过蒂尔尼先生吗？”艾伦夫人说。

‘No, where is he?’
“不，他在哪儿？”

‘He was with us just now, and said he was so tired of lounging about, that he was resolved to go and dance; so I thought perhaps he would ask you, if he met with you.’
“他刚才和我们在一起，说他厌倦了闲逛，所以决定去跳舞；所以我想如果他见到你，也许他会问你。

‘Where can he be?’ said Catherine, looking round; but she had not looked round long before she saw him leading a young lady to the dance.
“他会在哪里？”凯瑟琳环顾四周问道。但没多久，她就看到他带着一位年轻女士去参加舞会。

‘Ah! He has got a partner; I wish he had asked you,’ said Mrs. Allen; and after a short silence, she added, ‘he is a very agreeable young man.’
'啊！他有一个伙伴； “我希望他问过你。”艾伦夫人说。短暂的沉默后，她补充道，“他是一个非常和蔼可亲的年轻人。”

‘Indeed he is, Mrs. Allen,’ said Mrs. Thorpe, smiling complacently; ‘I must say it, though I am his mother, that there is not a more agreeable young man in the world.’
“确实是这样，艾伦太太，”索普太太得意地微笑着说。 “我必须说，虽然我是他的母亲，但世界上没有比他更讨人喜欢的年轻人了。”

This inapplicable answer might have been too much for the comprehension of many; but it did not puzzle Mrs. Allen, for after only a moment’s consideration, she said, in a whisper to Catherine, ‘I dare say she thought I was speaking of her son.’
这个不适用的答案对于很多人来说可能难以理解。但这并没有让艾伦夫人感到困惑，因为只考虑了一会儿，她就低声对凯瑟琳说道：“我敢说她以为我在说她的儿子。”

Catherine was disappointed and vexed. She seemed to have missed by so little the very object she had had in view; and this persuasion did not incline her to a very gracious reply, when John Thorpe came up to her soon afterwards and said, ‘Well, Miss Morland, I suppose you and I are to stand up and jig it together again.’
凯瑟琳感到失望和烦恼。她似乎差一点就错过了她所看到的目标。这种劝说并没有让她得到一个非常客气的答复，不久之后约翰·索普走到她面前说：“好吧，莫兰小姐，我想你和我应该站起来，再次把它组合在一起。”

‘Oh, no; I am much obliged to you, our two dances are over; and, besides, I am tired, and do not mean to dance any more.’
'不好了;我非常感谢你，我们的两支舞已经结束了；而且，再说了，我累了，不想再跳舞了。

‘Do not you? Then let us walk about and quiz people. Come along with me, and I will show you the four greatest quizzers in the room; my two younger sisters and their partners. I have been laughing at them this half hour.’
'你不是吗？然后让我们四处走走，向人们提问。跟我来，我将向您展示房间里最出色的四位测验者；我的两个妹妹和她们的伴侣。这半个小时我一直在嘲笑他们。

Again Catherine excused herself; and at last he walked off to quiz his sisters by himself. The rest of the evening she found very dull; Mr. Tilney was drawn away from their party at tea, to attend that of his partner; Miss Tilney, though belonging to it, did not sit near her, and James and Isabella were so much engaged in conversing together that the latter had no leisure to bestow more on her friend than one smile, one squeeze, and one ‘dearest Catherine.’
凯瑟琳再次告辞。最后他独自走开去测验他的姐妹们。那天晚上剩下的时间她觉得很无聊。蒂尔尼先生在下午茶时被从他们的聚会中抽离出来，去参加他的搭档的聚会。蒂尔尼小姐虽然属于它，但并没有坐在她附近，詹姆斯和伊莎贝拉在一起交谈得如此之多，以至于后者没有闲暇给她的朋友更多的礼物，只是一个微笑，一个挤压，和一个“最亲爱的凯瑟琳”。 '

Chapter 9
第9章

The progress of Catherine’s unhappiness from the events of the evening was as follows. It appeared first in a general dissatisfaction with everybody about her, while she remained in the rooms, which speedily brought on considerable weariness and a violent desire to go home. This, on arriving in Pulteney Street, took the direction of extraordinary hunger, and when that was appeased, changed into an earnest longing to be in bed; such was the extreme point of her distress; for when there she immediately fell into a sound sleep which lasted nine hours, and from which she awoke perfectly revived, in excellent spirits, with fresh hopes and fresh schemes. The first wish of her heart was to improve her acquaintance with Miss Tilney, and almost her first resolution, to seek her for that purpose, in the pump-room at noon. In the pump-room, one so newly arrived in Bath must be met with, and that building she had already found so favourable for the discovery of female excellence, and the completion of female intimacy, so admirably adapted for secret discourses and unlimited confidence, that she was most reasonably encouraged to expect another friend from within its walls. Her plan for the morning thus settled, she sat quietly down to her book after breakfast, resolving to remain in the same place and the same employment till the clock struck one; and from habitude very little incommoded by the remarks and ejaculations of Mrs. Allen, whose vacancy of mind and incapacity for thinking were such, that as she never talked a great deal, so she could never be entirely silent; and, therefore, while she sat at her work, if she lost her needle or broke her thread, if she heard a carriage in the street, or saw a speck upon her gown, she must observe it aloud, whether there were anyone at leisure to answer her or not. At about half past twelve, a remarkably loud rap drew her in haste to the window, and scarcely had she time to inform Catherine of there being two open carriages at the door, in the first only a servant, her brother driving Miss Thorpe in the second, before John Thorpe came running upstairs, calling out, ‘Well, Miss Morland, here I am. Have you been waiting long? We could not come before; the old devil of a coachmaker was such an eternity finding out a thing fit to be got into, and now it is ten thousand to one but they break down before we are out of the street. How do you do, Mrs. Allen? A famous bag last night, was not it? Come, Miss Morland, be quick, for the others are in a confounded hurry to be off. They want to get their tumble over.’
凯瑟琳对当晚发生的事情的不满是这样发展的。当她留在房间里时，首先出现的是对周围每个人的普遍不满，这很快就带来了相当大的疲倦和强烈的回家欲望。到达普尔特尼街后，这种感觉转向了异常的饥饿感，当这种饥饿感得到平息后，又变成了对床上的热切渴望。这就是她痛苦的极点。因为当她在那里时，她立即陷入了长达九个小时的沉睡，醒来后她完全恢复了活力，精神抖擞，带着新的希望和新的计划。她心中的第一个愿望就是增进与蒂尔尼小姐的了解，这几乎是她的第一个决心，为此目的，中午去水泵房找她。在泵房里，必须会见一位刚到巴斯的人，她已经发现这座建筑非常有利于发现女性的卓越性，完成女性的亲密关系，非常适合秘密谈话和无限的信心，她最有理由相信，在围墙之内会有另一个朋友。她早上的计划就这样定下来了，早餐后，她静静地坐下来读书，决定留在同一个地方，做同样的工作，直到钟声敲响。出于习惯，她对夫人的言论和豪言壮语并不感到不安。 艾伦心智空虚，缺乏思考能力，从不说太多话，所以她永远无法完全保持沉默。因此，当她坐着工作时，如果她丢了针或断了线，如果她听到街上有马车声，或者看到她的礼服上有一个斑点，她必须大声观察，无论是否有人闲着。回答她与否。大约十二点半，一声非常响亮的敲击声把她急忙跑到窗前，她几乎没有时间告诉凯瑟琳，门口有两辆敞篷马车，第一辆只有一名仆人，她的哥哥在车里载着索普小姐。第二，约翰·索普跑上楼，大声喊道：“好了，莫兰小姐，我在这里。”你是不是等了很久？我们之前不能来；马车匠的老魔鬼花了很长时间才找到适合进入的东西，现在是一万比一，但在我们走出街道之前它们就坏了。你好吗，艾伦夫人？昨晚是一个著名的包，不是吗？来吧，莫兰小姐，快点，因为其他人都急着要出发了。他们想要摆脱困境。’

‘What do you mean?’ said Catherine. ‘Where are you all going to?’
“你这是什么意思？”凯瑟琳问道。 “你们要去哪里？”

‘Going to? Why, you have not forgot our engagement! Did not we agree together to take a drive this morning? What a head you have! We are going up Claverton Down.’
'即将？哎呀，你还没忘记我们的订婚呢！我们不是约好今天早上一起开车去的吗？你有什么头啊！我们要上克拉弗顿山。

‘Something was said about it, I remember,’ said Catherine, looking at Mrs. Allen for her opinion; ‘but really I did not expect you.’
“我记得有人对此说过一些话，”凯瑟琳说，看着艾伦夫人征求她的意见。 “但我真的没想到你会来。”

‘Not expect me! That’s a good one! And what a dust you would have made, if I had not come.’
‘别指望我！这是一件好事！如果我不来的话，你会弄得多么尘埃啊。”

Catherine’s silent appeal to her friend, meanwhile, was entirely thrown away, for Mrs. Allen, not being at all in the habit of conveying any expression herself by a look, was not aware of its being ever intended by anybody else; and Catherine, whose desire of seeing Miss Tilney again could at that moment bear a short delay in favour of a drive, and who thought there could be no impropriety in her going with Mr. Thorpe, as Isabella was going at the same time with James, was therefore obliged to speak plainer. ‘Well, ma’am, what do you say to it? Can you spare me for an hour or two? Shall I go?’
与此同时，凯瑟琳对她朋友无声的恳求完全被抛弃了，因为艾伦夫人根本不习惯通过眼神来表达任何表情，她不知道其他人也曾有意这样做；但艾伦夫人并没有意识到这一点。凯瑟琳想再次见到蒂尔尼小姐，此时可以暂时推迟一下，以便开车，她认为她和索普先生一起去不会有什么不当之处，因为伊莎贝拉和詹姆斯同时去，因此不得不说得更直白一些。 ‘那么，女士，您对此有何看法？你能抽出我一两个小时吗？我可以去吗？

‘Do just as you please, my dear,’ replied Mrs. Allen, with the most placid indifference. Catherine took the advice, and ran off to get ready. In a very few minutes she reappeared, having scarcely allowed the two others time enough to get through a few short sentences in her praise, after Thorpe had procured Mrs. Allen’s admiration of his gig; and then receiving her friend’s parting good wishes, they both hurried downstairs. ‘My dearest creature,’ cried Isabella, to whom the duty of friendship immediately called her before she could get into the carriage, ‘you have been at least three hours getting ready. I was afraid you were ill. What a delightful ball we had last night. I have a thousand things to say to you; but make haste and get in, for I long to be off.’
“亲爱的，你爱怎么做就怎么做吧，”艾伦夫人回答道，语气极其平静、漠不关心。凯瑟琳接受了建议，跑去准备。几分钟后，在索普赢得了艾伦夫人对他的演出的钦佩之后，她几乎没有给另外两个人足够的时间来完成几句赞美她的简短句子；她又出现了。然后接受了朋友的临别祝福，两人就匆匆下了楼。 “我最亲爱的人，”伊莎贝拉喊道，在她上马车之前，出于友谊的义务立即向她喊道，“你已经准备了至少三个小时了。”我担心你生病了。昨晚我们举行了一场多么愉快的舞会啊。我有一千句话要对你说；但快点进去吧，因为我很想离开。

Catherine followed her orders and turned away, but not too soon to hear her friend exclaim aloud to James, ‘What a sweet girl she is! I quite dote on her.’
凯瑟琳按照她的命令转身走开，但很快就听到她的朋友对詹姆斯大声喊道：“她是一个多么可爱的女孩啊！”我很喜欢她。

‘You will not be frightened, Miss Morland,’ said Thorpe, as he handed her in, ‘if my horse should dance about a little at first setting off. He will, most likely, give a plunge or two, and perhaps take the rest for a minute; but he will soon know his master. He is full of spirits, playful as can be, but there is no vice in him.’
“莫兰小姐，你不会害怕的，”索普一边把她递过去，一边说道，“如果我的马一开始出发时能跳一会儿舞的话。”他很可能会跳一两次，然后休息一分钟。但他很快就会认识他的主人。他精力充沛，非常顽皮，但他身上没有任何恶习。

Catherine did not think the portrait a very inviting one, but it was too late to retreat, and she was too young to own herself frightened; so, resigning herself to her fate, and trusting to the animal’s boasted knowledge of its owner, she sat peaceably down, and saw Thorpe sit down by her. Everything being then arranged, the servant who stood at the horse’s head was bid in an important voice ‘to let him go,’ and off they went in the quietest manner imaginable, without a plunge or a caper, or anything like one. Catherine, delighted at so happy an escape, spoke her pleasure aloud with grateful surprise; and her companion immediately made the matter perfectly simple by assuring her that it was entirely owing to the peculiarly judicious manner in which he had then held the reins, and the singular discernment and dexterity with which he had directed his whip. Catherine, though she could not help wondering that with such perfect command of his horse, he should think it necessary to alarm her with a relation of its tricks, congratulated herself sincerely on being under the care of so excellent a coachman; and perceiving that the animal continued to go on in the same quiet manner, without showing the smallest propensity towards any unpleasant vivacity, and (considering its inevitable pace was ten miles an hour) by no means alarmingly fast, gave herself up to all the enjoyment of air and exercise of the most invigorating kind, in a fine mild day of February, with the consciousness of safety. A silence of several minutes succeeded their first short dialogue; it was broken by Thorpe’s saying very abruptly, ‘Old Allen is as rich as a Jew — is not he?’ Catherine did not understand him — and he repeated his question, adding in explanation, ‘Old Allen, the man you are with.’
凯瑟琳认为这幅肖像画不太吸引人，但现在撤退已经太晚了，而且她还太年轻，无法承认自己感到害怕。于是，她听天由命，并相信这只动物所夸耀的对主人的了解，她平静地坐下来，看到索普坐在她旁边。一切都安排妥当后，站在马头的仆人用一种重要的声音吩咐“放他走”，然后他们就以可以想象到的最安静的方式出发了，没有跳水或跳跃，或者类似的东西。凯瑟琳对如此幸福的逃脱感到高兴，带着感激的惊讶大声说出了她的高兴。她的同伴立即让事情变得简单起来，向她保证，这完全是由于他当时握着缰绳的特别明智的方式，以及他指挥鞭子时的非凡洞察力和灵巧性。凯瑟琳虽然忍不住想知道，他对马的驾驭能力如此完美，他应该认为有必要用它的把戏来吓唬她，但她还是真诚地庆幸自己受到了如此出色的马车夫的照顾。并察觉到动物继续以同样安静的方式前进，没有表现出任何令人不快的活泼倾向，并且（考虑到它不可避免的速度是每小时十英里）绝不是惊人的快，她全身心地享受所有的乐趣在二月天气晴朗的日子里，带着安全意识，呼吸新鲜空气，进行最振奋人心的锻炼。他们第一次简短的对话之后是几分钟的沉默。索普突然说道：“老艾伦和犹太人一样富有，不是吗？”凯瑟琳听不懂他的意思，他重复了他的问题，并添加了解释，“老艾伦，就是和你在一起的那个人。” '

‘Oh! Mr. Allen, you mean. Yes, I believe, he is very rich.’
'哦！艾伦先生，你是说。是的，我相信，他非常富有。”

‘And no children at all?’
“根本就没有孩子吗？”

‘No — not any.’
“不——没有。”

‘A famous thing for his next heirs. He is your godfather, is not he?’
“对于他的下一任继承人来说，这是一件著名的事情。他是你的教父，不是吗？

‘My godfather! No.’
‘我的教父！不。'

‘But you are always very much with them.’
“但你总是和他们在一起。”

‘Yes, very much.’
“是的，非常喜欢。”

‘Aye, that is what I meant. He seems a good kind of old fellow enough, and has lived very well in his time, I dare say; he is not gouty for nothing. Does he drink his bottle a day now?’
‘是啊，我就是这个意思。我敢说，他看起来是个很好的老家伙，在他那个时代生活得很好。他得痛风不是无缘无故的。他现在每天喝一瓶吗？

‘His bottle a day! No. Why should you think of such a thing? He is a very temperate man, and you could not fancy him in liquor last night?’
‘他一天一瓶！不，你为什么要想到这样的事情？他是个很节制的人，昨晚你就看不上他喝酒吗？

‘Lord help you! You women are always thinking of men’s being in liquor. Why, you do not suppose a man is overset by a bottle? I am sure of this — that if everybody was to drink their bottle a day, there would not be half the disorders in the world there are now. It would be a famous good thing for us all.’
‘主啊帮助你！你们女人总是想着男人喝酒。为什么，你不认为一个人会被瓶子打翻？我确信这一点——如果每个人每天都喝自己的瓶子，那么现在世界上的疾病就不会有一半了。这对我们所有人来说都是一件著名的好事。

‘I cannot believe it.’
'我不相信。'

‘Oh! Lord, it would be the saving of thousands. There is not the hundredth part of the wine consumed in this kingdom that there ought to be. Our foggy climate wants help.’
'哦！主啊，这将拯救成千上万的人。这个王国里消耗的酒还不到应有的百分之一。我们多雾的气候需要帮助。

‘And yet I have heard that there is a great deal of wine drunk in Oxford.’
“但我听说牛津有很多人喝葡萄酒。”

‘Oxford! There is no drinking at Oxford now, I assure you. Nobody drinks there. You would hardly meet with a man who goes beyond his four pints at the utmost. Now, for instance, it was reckoned a remarkable thing, at the last party in my rooms, that upon an average we cleared about five pints a head. It was looked upon as something out of the common way. Mine is famous good stuff, to be sure. You would not often meet with anything like it in Oxford — and that may account for it. But this will just give you a notion of the general rate of drinking there.’
'牛津！我向你保证，牛津现在禁止饮酒。那里没人喝酒。你很难遇到一个最多喝四品脱啤酒的人。例如，在我房间里的最后一次聚会上，我们平均每人喝掉大约五品脱，这被认为是一件了不起的事情。它被视为不寻常的东西。当然，我的东西是著名的好东西。在牛津你不会经常遇到类似的事情——这可能是原因之一。但这只会让您了解那里的总体饮酒率。

‘Yes, it does give a notion,’ said Catherine warmly, ‘and that is, that you all drink a great deal more wine than I thought you did. However, I am sure James does not drink so much.’
“是的，它确实给出了一个概念，”凯瑟琳热情地说，“那就是，你们喝的酒比我想象的要多得多。不过，我确信詹姆斯不会喝那么多酒。”

This declaration brought on a loud and overpowering reply, of which no part was very distinct, except the frequent exclamations, amounting almost to oaths, which adorned it, and Catherine was left, when it ended, with rather a strengthened belief of there being a great deal of wine drunk in Oxford, and the same happy conviction of her brother’s comparative sobriety.
这一声明引起了响亮而压倒性的答复，其中没有任何部分是非常明显的，除了频繁的感叹声，几乎相当于誓言，这装饰了它，凯瑟琳在结束时留下了一个更加坚定的信念，即有一个更坚定的信念。她在牛津喝了很多酒，也同样确信她哥哥相对清醒。

Thorpe’s ideas then all reverted to the merits of his own equipage, and she was called on to admire the spirit and freedom with which his horse moved along, and the ease which his paces, as well as the excellence of the springs, gave the motion of the carriage. She followed him in all his admiration as well as she could. To go before or beyond him was impossible. His knowledge and her ignorance of the subject, his rapidity of expression, and her diffidence of herself put that out of her power; she could strike out nothing new in commendation, but she readily echoed whatever he chose to assert, and it was finally settled between them without any difficulty that his equipage was altogether the most complete of its kind in England, his carriage the neatest, his horse the best goer, and himself the best coachman. ‘You do not really think, Mr. Thorpe,’ said Catherine, venturing after some time to consider the matter as entirely decided, and to offer some little variation on the subject, ‘that James’s gig will break down?’
然后，索普的想法全部回到了他自己的马匹的优点上，她被要求欣赏他的马前进的精神和自由，以及他的步伐的轻松，以及弹簧的卓越性。车厢的。她尽其所能地跟着他，满怀钦佩之情。要超越他或超越他是不可能的。他对这个话题的了解和她的无知，他的表达速度很快，而她对自己的缺乏自信，这些都让她无能为力。她无法在赞扬中提出任何新的东西，但她很乐意附和他所选择的主张，最后他们毫不费力地达成了一致：他的装备是英格兰同类中最齐全的，他的马车最整洁，他的马匹最好的骑手，而他自己则是最好的车夫。 “索普先生，你不会真的认为，詹姆斯的演出会坏掉吗？”凯瑟琳花了一段时间考虑到这件事已经完全决定了，并就这个问题提出了一些小小的变化。

‘Break down! Oh! Lord! Did you ever see such a little tittuppy thing in your life? There is not a sound piece of iron about it. The wheels have been fairly worn out these ten years at least — and as for the body! Upon my soul, you might shake it to pieces yourself with a touch. It is the most devilish little rickety business I ever beheld! Thank God! we have got a better. I would not be bound to go two miles in it for fifty thousand pounds.’
'分解！哦！主！你在生活中见过这样的小奶子吗？它没有一块健全的铁片。至少这十年来，车轮已经相当磨损了——至于车身！在我的灵魂上，你可能会轻轻一碰就把它震碎。这是我见过的最邪恶、摇摇欲坠的生意！感谢上帝！我们有更好的。我不必为了五万英镑而跑两英里。

‘Good heavens!’ cried Catherine, quite frightened. ‘Then pray let us turn back; they will certainly meet with an accident if we go on. Do let us turn back, Mr. Thorpe; stop and speak to my brother, and tell him how very unsafe it is.’
“天哪！”凯瑟琳惊恐地喊道。 ‘那就祈祷我们回去吧；再继续下去，他们肯定会出事的。让我们回头吧，索普先生；停下来和我哥哥说话，告诉他这是多么不安全。”

‘Unsafe! Oh, lord! What is there in that? They will only get a roll if it does break down; and there is plenty of dirt; it will be excellent falling. Oh, curse it! The carriage is safe enough, if a man knows how to drive it; a thing of that sort in good hands will last above twenty years after it is fairly worn out. Lord bless you! I would undertake for five pounds to drive it to York and back again, without losing a nail.’
‘不安全！我的天！那里面有什么？只有在坏了的情况下，他们才会得到一卷；还有很多污垢；这将是极好的下降。哦，诅咒它！如果一个人知道如何驾驶的话，马车就足够安全了。这类东西如果掌握得好的话，即使相当磨损，也能使用二十年以上。主祝福你！我愿意花五英镑把它开到约克并再回来，而不会丢失一颗钉子。

Catherine listened with astonishment; she knew not how to reconcile two such very different accounts of the same thing; for she had not been brought up to understand the propensities of a rattle, nor to know to how many idle assertions and impudent falsehoods the excess of vanity will lead. Her own family were plain, matter-of-fact people who seldom aimed at wit of any kind; her father, at the utmost, being contented with a pun, and her mother with a proverb; they were not in the habit therefore of telling lies to increase their importance, or of asserting at one moment what they would contradict the next. She reflected on the affair for some time in much perplexity, and was more than once on the point of requesting from Mr. Thorpe a clearer insight into his real opinion on the subject; but she checked herself, because it appeared to her that he did not excel in giving those clearer insights, in making those things plain which he had before made ambiguous; and, joining to this, the consideration that he would not really suffer his sister and his friend to be exposed to a danger from which he might easily preserve them, she concluded at last that he must know the carriage to be in fact perfectly safe, and therefore would alarm herself no longer. By him the whole matter seemed entirely forgotten; and all the rest of his conversation, or rather talk, began and ended with himself and his own concerns. He told her of horses which he had bought for a trifle and sold for incredible sums; of racing matches, in which his judgment had infallibly foretold the winner; of shooting parties, in which he had killed more birds (though without having one good shot) than all his companions together; and described to her some famous day’s sport, with the fox-hounds, in which his foresight and skill in directing the dogs had repaired the mistakes of the most experienced huntsman, and in which the boldness of his riding, though it had never endangered his own life for a moment, had been constantly leading others into difficulties, which he calmly concluded had broken the necks of many.
凯瑟琳惊讶地听着。她不知道如何调和对同一件事的两种截然不同的描述。因为她从小就没有被教育去了解拨浪鼓的倾向，也不知道过度的虚荣心会导致多少无意义的断言和无礼的谎言。她自己的家人都是朴实、务实的人，很少以任何形式的智慧为目标。她的父亲最多满足于双关语，而她的母亲则满足于谚语。因此，他们不习惯通过说谎来增加自己的重要性，或者在某个时刻断言与下一个时刻相矛盾。她困惑地思考了这件事一段时间，并不止一次要求索普先生更清楚地了解他对这个问题的真实看法；但她克制住了自己，因为在她看来，他并不擅长给出那些更清晰的见解，也不擅长将那些他以前说得模棱两可的事情说清楚。考虑到他不会真的让他的妹妹和他的朋友面临危险，而他可以很容易地保护他们，她最后得出结论，他必须知道马车实际上是绝对安全的，因此她不会再惊慌了。他似乎完全忘记了整件事。他其余的谈话，或者更确切地说，谈话，都是以他自己和他自己的担忧开始和结束的。 他告诉她，他花很少的钱买了一些马，然后以令人难以置信的价格出售。赛车比赛中，他的判断无误地预测了胜利者；参加射击聚会，他在其中打死的鸟（尽管没有一枪打中）比他所有同伴加起来还要多；并向她描述了一些著名的猎狐运动，在这场运动中，他指挥狗的远见和技巧弥补了最有经验的猎人的错误，在其中，他的大胆骑马，虽然从未危及他的狗他自己的一生，一直在不断地带领别人陷入困境，他冷静地断定，这已经折断了许多人的脖子。

Little as Catherine was in the habit of judging for herself, and unfixed as were her general notions of what men ought to be, she could not entirely repress a doubt, while she bore with the effusions of his endless conceit, of his being altogether completely agreeable. It was a bold surmise, for he was Isabella’s brother; and she had been assured by James that his manners would recommend him to all her sex; but in spite of this, the extreme weariness of his company, which crept over her before they had been out an hour, and which continued unceasingly to increase till they stopped in Pulteney Street again, induced her, in some small degree, to resist such high authority, and to distrust his powers of giving universal pleasure.
尽管凯瑟琳很少有为自己做出判断的习惯，而且她对男人应该是什么样子的一般观念也没有固定下来，但当她忍受着他无尽的自负和他完全完全的存在时，她无法完全压抑怀疑。合适的。这是一个大胆的猜测，因为他是伊莎贝拉的兄弟。詹姆斯向她保证，他的举止会向所有女性推荐他。但尽管如此，在他们出去一个小时之前，他的陪伴就让她感到极度疲倦，而且这种疲倦不断增加，直到他们再次停在普尔特尼街，这在某种程度上诱使她抵制这种行为。崇高的权威，并且不信任他给予普遍快乐的能力。

When they arrived at Mrs. Allen’s door, the astonishment of Isabella was hardly to be expressed, on finding that it was too late in the day for them to attend her friend into the house: ‘Past three o’clock!’ It was inconceivable, incredible, impossible! And she would neither believe her own watch, nor her brother’s, nor the servant’s; she would believe no assurance of it founded on reason or reality, till Morland produced his watch, and ascertained the fact; to have doubted a moment longer then would have been equally inconceivable, incredible, and impossible; and she could only protest, over and over again, that no two hours and a half had ever gone off so swiftly before, as Catherine was called on to confirm; Catherine could not tell a falsehood even to please Isabella; but the latter was spared the misery of her friend’s dissenting voice, by not waiting for her answer. Her own feelings entirely engrossed her; her wretchedness was most acute on finding herself obliged to go directly home. It was ages since she had had a moment’s conversation with her dearest Catherine; and, though she had such thousands of things to say to her, it appeared as if they were never to be together again; so, with sniffles of most exquisite misery, and the laughing eye of utter despondency, she bade her friend adieu and went on.
当他们到达艾伦太太家门口时，伊莎贝拉的惊讶之情难以言喻，因为她发现天色已晚，无法送她的朋友进屋：“三点多了！”这简直不可思议。 ，不可思议，不可能！她既不相信自己的手表，也不相信她哥哥的手表，也不相信仆人的手表。在莫兰拿出手表并确定事实之前，她不会相信任何基于理性或现实的保证；如果再怀疑一会儿，同样是不可想象、难以置信和不可能的。她只能一遍又一遍地抗议，以前从来没有两个半小时过得这么快，正如凯瑟琳被叫去证实的那样。凯瑟琳不能为了取悦伊莎贝拉而说谎。但后者没有等待她的回答，因此免受她朋友反对声音的痛苦。她全神贯注于自己的感情。当她发现自己不得不直接回家时，她的悲惨情绪最为严重。她已经很久没有和她最亲爱的凯瑟琳进行过片刻的交谈了。尽管她有成千上万的事情要对她说，但他们似乎永远不会再在一起了。于是，她带着极其痛苦的抽噎声和极度沮丧的笑眼，向她的朋友告别，然后继续前行。

Catherine found Mrs. Allen just returned from all the busy idleness of the morning, and was immediately greeted with, ‘Well, my dear, here you are,’ a truth which she had no greater inclination than power to dispute; ‘and I hope you have had a pleasant airing?’
凯瑟琳发现艾伦夫人刚刚从早上忙碌的闲暇中回来，立刻受到欢迎，“好吧，亲爱的，你来了。”这是一个事实，她没有更大的倾向比权力去争论；但她没有能力去争论。 “我希望你有一个愉快的播出？”

‘Yes, ma’am, I thank you; we could not have had a nicer day.’
“是的，女士，我谢谢你；我们度过了美好的一天。

‘So Mrs. Thorpe said; she was vastly pleased at your all going.’
“索普夫人是这么说的；她对你的一切进展感到非常高兴。

‘You have seen Mrs. Thorpe, then?’
“那么你见过索普太太了吗？”

‘Yes, I went to the pump-room as soon as you were gone, and there I met her, and we had a great deal of talk together. She says there was hardly any veal to be got at market this morning, it is so uncommonly scarce.’
“是的，你一走我就去了泵房，在那里我遇见了她，我们一起聊了很多。她说今天早上市场上几乎买不到小牛肉，非常稀缺。

‘Did you see anybody else of our acquaintance?’
“你还看到我们认识的其他人吗？”

‘Yes; we agreed to take a turn in the Crescent, and there we met Mrs. Hughes, and Mr. and Miss Tilney walking with her.’
'是的;我们同意在新月街转一圈，在那里我们遇到了休斯太太，蒂尔尼先生和蒂尔尼小姐和她一起散步。

‘Did you indeed? And did they speak to you?’
‘你确实是这样吗？他们和你说话了吗？

‘Yes, we walked along the Crescent together for half an hour. They seem very agreeable people. Miss Tilney was in a very pretty spotted muslin, and I fancy, by what I can learn, that she always dresses very handsomely. Mrs. Hughes talked to me a great deal about the family.’
“是的，我们一起沿着新月路走了半个小时。他们看起来是非常和蔼可亲的人。蒂尔尼小姐穿着一件非常漂亮的斑点平纹细布，据我所知，我认为她总是穿得很漂亮。休斯夫人跟我谈了很多关于这个家庭的事情。

‘And what did she tell you of them?’
“她对你说了什么？”

‘Oh! A vast deal indeed; she hardly talked of anything else.’
'哦！确实是一件大事；她几乎没有谈论任何其他事情。

‘Did she tell you what part of Gloucestershire they come from?’
“她有告诉你他们来自格洛斯特郡的哪个地区吗？”

‘Yes, she did; but I cannot recollect now. But they are very good kind of people, and very rich. Mrs. Tilney was a Miss Drummond, and she and Mrs. Hughes were schoolfellows; and Miss Drummond had a very large fortune; and, when she married, her father gave her twenty thousand pounds, and five hundred to buy wedding-clothes. Mrs. Hughes saw all the clothes after they came from the warehouse.’
“是的，她做到了；”但我现在记不起来了。但他们都是非常善良的人，而且非常富有。蒂尔尼夫人是德拉蒙德小姐，她和休斯夫人是同学。德拉蒙德小姐拥有一大笔财产。当她结婚时，她的父亲给了她两万英镑，还有五百英镑用来买结婚礼服。所有的衣服从仓库运来后，休斯太太都看到了。

‘And are Mr. and Mrs. Tilney in Bath?’
“蒂尔尼先生和夫人在巴斯吗？”

‘Yes, I fancy they are, but I am not quite certain. Upon recollection, however, I have a notion they are both dead; at least the mother is; yes, I am sure Mrs. Tilney is dead, because Mrs. Hughes told me there was a very beautiful set of pearls that Mr. Drummond gave his daughter on her wedding-day and that Miss Tilney has got now, for they were put by for her when her mother died.’
“是的，我想是的，但我不太确定。然而，回想起来，我有一种感觉，他们都死了。至少母亲是；是的，我确信蒂尔尼夫人已经死了，因为休斯夫人告诉我，有一套非常漂亮的珍珠，是德拉蒙德先生在他女儿的婚礼上送给她的，蒂尔尼小姐现在已经得到了，因为它们是由德拉蒙德先生送给她的。当她母亲去世时，为她。

‘And is Mr. Tilney, my partner, the only son?’
“我的合伙人蒂尔尼先生是唯一的儿子吗？”

‘I cannot be quite positive about that, my dear; I have some idea he is; but, however, he is a very fine young man, Mrs. Hughes says, and likely to do very well.’
“我对此不太确定，亲爱的；我知道他是这样的；但是，休斯夫人说，他是一个非常优秀的年轻人，而且可能会做得很好。

Catherine inquired no further; she had heard enough to feel that Mrs. Allen had no real intelligence to give, and that she was most particularly unfortunate herself in having missed such a meeting with both brother and sister. Could she have foreseen such a circumstance, nothing should have persuaded her to go out with the others; and, as it was, she could only lament her ill luck, and think over what she had lost, till it was clear to her that the drive had by no means been very pleasant and that John Thorpe himself was quite disagreeable.
凯瑟琳没有再追问。她听得够多了，觉得艾伦夫人没有什么真正的智慧可以提供，而她自己特别不幸的是，她错过了与兄妹俩的这样一次会面。如果她能预见到这样的情况，她根本就不会跟其他人一起出去。事实上，她只能哀叹自己的运气不好，思考自己失去的东西，直到她清楚地意识到，开车的过程绝不是愉快的，而且约翰·索普本人也很令人讨厌。

Chapter 10
第10章

The Allens, Thorpes, and Morlands all met in the evening at the theatre; and, as Catherine and Isabella sat together, there was then an opportunity for the latter to utter some few of the many thousand things which had been collecting within her for communication in the immeasurable length of time which had divided them. ‘Oh, heavens! My beloved Catherine, have I got you at last?’ was her address on Catherine’s entering the box and sitting by her. ‘Now, Mr. Morland,’ for he was close to her on the other side, ‘I shall not speak another word to you all the rest of the evening; so I charge you not to expect it. My sweetest Catherine, how have you been this long age? But I need not ask you, for you look delightfully. You really have done your hair in a more heavenly style than ever; you mischievous creature, do you want to attract everybody? I assure you, my brother is quite in love with you already; and as for Mr. Tilney — but that is a settled thing — even your modesty cannot doubt his attachment now; his coming back to Bath makes it too plain. Oh! What would not I give to see him! I really am quite wild with impatience. My mother says he is the most delightful young man in the world; she saw him this morning, you know; you must introduce him to me. Is he in the house now? Look about, for heaven’s sake! I assure you, I can hardly exist till I see him.’
艾伦夫妇、索普斯夫妇和莫兰夫妇晚上在剧院见面。当凯瑟琳和伊莎贝拉坐在一起时，后者有机会说出在他们分开的漫长时间里她所收集的数千件事中的一些。 ‘哦，天啊！我心爱的凯瑟琳，我终于找到你了吗？”这是她在凯瑟琳进入包厢并坐在她身边时的讲话。 “现在，莫兰先生，”因为他在另一边离她很近，“今晚剩下的时间里我不会再对你说一句话；因为我不想再和你说话了。”所以我嘱咐你不要指望它。我最可爱的凯瑟琳，你怎么已经这么久了？但我不需要问你，因为你看起来很愉快。你真的把你的头发打理得比以往任何时候都更加美妙；你这个淘气的生物，你想吸引所有人吗？我向你保证，我哥哥已经很爱你了；至于蒂尔尼先生——但这是已成定局的事情——现在即使你的谦虚也不能怀疑他的依恋；他回到巴斯让事情变得太明显了。哦！为了见到他我什么都愿意付出！我真的很不耐烦。我母亲说他是世界上最可爱的年轻人；你知道，她今天早上见到了他；你必须把他介绍给我。他现在在屋子里吗？看在上帝的份上！我向你保证，在见到他之前我几乎无法生存。

‘No,’ said Catherine, ‘he is not here; I cannot see him anywhere.’
“不，”凯瑟琳说，“他不在这里；”我在任何地方都看不到他。

‘Oh, horrid! Am I never to be acquainted with him? How do you like my gown? I think it does not look amiss; the sleeves were entirely my own thought. Do you know, I get so immoderately sick of Bath; your brother and I were agreeing this morning that, though it is vastly well to be here for a few weeks, we would not live here for millions. We soon found out that our tastes were exactly alike in preferring the country to every other place; really, our opinions were so exactly the same, it was quite ridiculous! There was not a single point in which we differed; I would not have had you by for the world; you are such a sly thing, I am sure you would have made some droll remark or other about it.’
‘噢，太可怕了！难道我就永远不会认识他了吗？你觉得我的礼服怎么样？我认为这看起来并没有什么问题；袖子完全是我自己的想法。你知道吗，我已经厌倦了巴斯；你哥哥和我今天早上一致认为，虽然在这里呆几个星期固然很好，但我们不会在这里住上百万年。我们很快发现我们的品味完全相同，都更喜欢这个国家而不是其他地方。真的，我们的意见如此一致，真是可笑！我们没有一点分歧。我绝对不会让你在身边；你真是个狡猾的家伙，我相信你一定会说一些滑稽的话或其他类似的话。”

‘No, indeed I should not.’
“不，确实我不应该。”

‘Oh, yes you would indeed; I know you better than you know yourself. You would have told us that we seemed born for each other, or some nonsense of that kind, which would have distressed me beyond conception; my cheeks would have been as red as your roses; I would not have had you by for the world.’
‘哦，是的，你确实会的；我比你更了解你自己。你可能会告诉我们，我们似乎是天生一对，或者诸如此类的废话，这会让我感到难以想象的痛苦；我的脸颊会像你的玫瑰一样红；我绝对不会让你在身边的。

‘Indeed you do me injustice; I would not have made so improper a remark upon any account; and besides, I am sure it would never have entered my head.’
‘你确实对我不公平；无论出于何种原因，我都不会发表如此不恰当的言论；而且，我确信我永远不会想到这个。

Isabella smiled incredulously and talked the rest of the evening to James.
伊莎贝拉难以置信地微笑着，整个晚上都在和詹姆斯说话。

Catherine’s resolution of endeavouring to meet Miss Tilney again continued in full force the next morning; and till the usual moment of going to the pump-room, she felt some alarm from the dread of a second prevention. But nothing of that kind occurred, no visitors appeared to delay them, and they all three set off in good time for the pump-room, where the ordinary course of events and conversation took place; Mr. Allen, after drinking his glass of water, joined some gentlemen to talk over the politics of the day and compare the accounts of their newspapers; and the ladies walked about together, noticing every new face, and almost every new bonnet in the room. The female part of the Thorpe family, attended by James Morland, appeared among the crowd in less than a quarter of an hour, and Catherine immediately took her usual place by the side of her friend. James, who was now in constant attendance, maintained a similar position, and separating themselves from the rest of their party, they walked in that manner for some time, till Catherine began to doubt the happiness of a situation which, confining her entirely to her friend and brother, gave her very little share in the notice of either. They were always engaged in some sentimental discussion or lively dispute, but their sentiment was conveyed in such whispering voices, and their vivacity attended with so much laughter, that though Catherine’s supporting opinion was not unfrequently called for by one or the other, she was never able to give any, from not having heard a word of the subject. At length however she was empowered to disengage herself from her friend, by the avowed necessity of speaking to Miss Tilney, whom she most joyfully saw just entering the room with Mrs. Hughes, and whom she instantly joined, with a firmer determination to be acquainted, than she might have had courage to command, had she not been urged by the disappointment of the day before. Miss Tilney met her with great civility, returned her advances with equal goodwill, and they continued talking together as long as both parties remained in the room; and though in all probability not an observation was made, nor an expression used by either which had not been made and used some thousands of times before, under that roof, in every Bath season, yet the merit of their being spoken with simplicity and truth, and without personal conceit, might be something uncommon.
第二天早上，凯瑟琳继续全力以赴地再次见到蒂尔尼小姐。直到像往常一样去泵房的那一刻，她才因害怕第二次预防而感到有些惊慌。但这种事情并没有发生，似乎没有访客耽误他们，他们三人及时出发前往泵房，那里发生了正常的事件和谈话；艾伦先生喝完一杯水后，和一些绅士一起谈论当今的政治，并比较他们报纸上的报道。女士们一起走来走去，注意到房间里的每一张新面孔和几乎每顶新帽子。索普家族的女性成员在詹姆斯·莫兰的陪伴下，不到一刻钟就出现在人群中，凯瑟琳立即回到了她朋友身边的平常位置。詹姆斯现在经常出席，也保持着类似的立场，并将自己与队伍的其他人分开，他们以这种方式走了一段时间，直到凯瑟琳开始怀疑这种情况的幸福性，这种情况将她完全限制在她身边朋友和兄弟，她对其中任何一个的关注都很少。他们总是在进行一些伤感的讨论或激烈的争论，但他们的感情是通过这样的低语声传达的，他们的活泼伴随着如此多的笑声，尽管凯瑟琳的支持意见经常被一方或另一方要求，但她从来没有能够给出任何，因为没有听到这个主题的任何字。然而，最终她被授权与她的朋友脱离关系，因为她公开承认有必要与蒂尔尼小姐交谈，她最高兴地看到蒂尔尼小姐刚刚和蒂尔尼夫人一起进入房间。 她立即​​加入了休斯，怀着结识的坚定决心，如果不是前一天的失望催促了她，她可能没有勇气指挥。蒂尔尼小姐非常有礼貌地接待了她，并以同样的善意回报了她的主动，只要双方都留在房间里，他们就继续在一起交谈。虽然很可能没有提出任何观察，也没有使用过任何一种表达方式，而这些表达方式以前在那个屋檐下，在每个巴斯季节都被说过和使用过数千次，但他们的优点是简单而真实地讲述出来的，如果没有个人自负，可能是不寻常的事情。

‘How well your brother dances!’ was an artless exclamation of Catherine’s towards the close of their conversation, which at once surprised and amused her companion.
“你哥哥跳舞跳得真好！”凯瑟琳在谈话快结束时天真地感叹道，这让她的同伴既惊讶又好笑。

‘Henry!’ she replied with a smile. ‘Yes, he does dance very well.’
“亨利！”她微笑着回答。 “是的，他跳舞跳得很好。”

‘He must have thought it very odd to hear me say I was engaged the other evening, when he saw me sitting down. But I really had been engaged the whole day to Mr. Thorpe.’ Miss Tilney could only bow. ‘You cannot think,’ added Catherine after a moment’s silence, ‘how surprised I was to see him again. I felt so sure of his being quite gone away.’
“那天晚上，当他看到我坐下来时，听到我说我订婚了，他一定觉得很奇怪。但我确实一整天都在和索普先生订婚。”蒂尔尼小姐只能鞠躬。 “你想不到，”凯瑟琳沉默了一会儿后补充道，“再次见到他我是多么惊讶。我确信他已经消失了。

‘When Henry had the pleasure of seeing you before, he was in Bath but for a couple of days. He came only to engage lodgings for us.’
“亨利之前有幸见到你时，他在巴斯只呆了几天。他只是来为我们订住宿的。

‘That never occurred to me; and of course, not seeing him anywhere, I thought he must be gone. Was not the young lady he danced with on Monday a Miss Smith?’
“我从来没有想到过；当然，由于在任何地方都没有看到他，我想他一定是走了。周一与他跳舞的那位年轻女士不是史密斯小姐吗？

‘Yes, an acquaintance of Mrs. Hughes.’
“是的，休斯夫人的一个熟人。”

‘I dare say she was very glad to dance. Do you think her pretty?’
“我敢说她很高兴跳舞。你觉得她漂亮吗？

‘Not very.’
'不是特别的。'

‘He never comes to the pump-room, I suppose?’
“我想他从来不来水泵房吧？”

‘Yes, sometimes; but he has rid out this morning with my father.’
'是的，有时;但今天早上他和我父亲一起出去了。”

Mrs. Hughes now joined them, and asked Miss Tilney if she was ready to go. ‘I hope I shall have the pleasure of seeing you again soon,’ said Catherine. ‘Shall you be at the cotillion ball tomorrow?’
休斯太太现在也加入了他们，并询问蒂尔尼小姐是否准备好出发了。 “我希望很快就能再次见到你，”凯瑟琳说。 “你明天可以参加舞会吗？”

‘Perhaps we — Yes, I think we certainly shall.’
“也许我们——是的，我想我们肯定会的。”

‘I am glad of it, for we shall all be there.’ This civility was duly returned; and they parted — on Miss Tilney’s side with some knowledge of her new acquaintance’s feelings, and on Catherine’s, without the smallest consciousness of having explained them.
“我很高兴，因为我们都会在那里。”这种礼貌得到了适当的回报。他们分手了——蒂尔尼小姐对她的新朋友的感受有所了解，而凯瑟琳却丝毫没有解释过。

She went home very happy. The morning had answered all her hopes, and the evening of the following day was now the object of expectation, the future good. What gown and what head-dress she should wear on the occasion became her chief concern. She cannot be justified in it. Dress is at all times a frivolous distinction, and excessive solicitude about it often destroys its own aim. Catherine knew all this very well; her great aunt had read her a lecture on the subject only the Christmas before; and yet she lay awake ten minutes on Wednesday night debating between her spotted and her tamboured muslin, and nothing but the shortness of the time prevented her buying a new one for the evening. This would have been an error in judgment, great though not uncommon, from which one of the other sex rather than her own, a brother rather than a great aunt, might have warned her, for man only can be aware of the insensibility of man towards a new gown. It would be mortifying to the feelings of many ladies, could they be made to understand how little the heart of man is affected by what is costly or new in their attire; how little it is biased by the texture of their muslin, and how unsusceptible of peculiar tenderness towards the spotted, the sprigged, the mull, or the jackonet. Woman is fine for her own satisfaction alone. No man will admire her the more, no woman will like her the better for it. Neatness and fashion are enough for the former, and a something of shabbiness or impropriety will be most endearing to the latter. But not one of these grave reflections troubled the tranquillity of Catherine.
她很高兴地回家了。早上已经满足了她所有的希望，第二天晚上现在就是期待的对象，未来的美好。她在这个场合应该穿什么礼服和头饰成为她最关心的问题。她这样做是没有道理的。着装在任何时候都是一种无关紧要的区别，对它的过度关注往往会破坏其本身的目的。凯瑟琳对这一切了如指掌。就在前一年的圣诞节，她的姨婆还给她读过一篇关于这个主题的讲座。然而周三晚上，她躺在床上十分钟就睡不着，在她那件有斑点的平纹细布和她那件鼓鼓的平纹细布之间争论不休，除了时间紧迫之外，她没有什么理由阻止她晚上买一件新的。这将是一个判断错误，虽然很常见，但很大，从中，异性中的一个而不是她自己的性别，一个兄弟而不是一个姨婆，可能会警告她，因为只有男人才能意识到男人的麻木不仁。走向新礼服。如果能让许多女士明白，昂贵的或新奇的服装对男人的心影响是多么小，那将是令人感到羞愧的。平纹细布的质地对它的影响是多么小，对斑点、小枝、毛呢或夹克衫的特殊温柔是多么不敏感。女人只要满足自己就好了。没有男人会因此而更加钦佩她，也没有女人会因此而更加喜欢她。对于前者来说，整洁和时尚就足够了，而对于后者来说，一些破旧或不合时宜的东西才是最讨人喜欢的。但这些严肃的思考并没有扰乱凯瑟琳的平静。

She entered the rooms on Thursday evening with feelings very different from what had attended her thither the Monday before. She had then been exulting in her engagement to Thorpe, and was now chiefly anxious to avoid his sight, lest he should engage her again; for though she could not, dared not expect that Mr. Tilney should ask her a third time to dance, her wishes, hopes, and plans all centred in nothing less. Every young lady may feel for my heroine in this critical moment, for every young lady has at some time or other known the same agitation. All have been, or at least all have believed themselves to be, in danger from the pursuit of someone whom they wished to avoid; and all have been anxious for the attentions of someone whom they wished to please. As soon as they were joined by the Thorpes, Catherine’s agony began; she fidgeted about if John Thorpe came towards her, hid herself as much as possible from his view, and when he spoke to her pretended not to hear him. The cotillions were over, the country-dancing beginning, and she saw nothing of the Tilneys.
周四晚上，她走进房间时的感觉与周一之前的感觉截然不同。当时她正为与索普订婚而欣喜若狂，现在主要是想避开他的视线，以免他再次与她订婚。因为虽然她不能、不敢指望蒂尔尼先生会第三次邀请她跳舞，但她的愿望、希望和计划都集中在这一点上。每个年轻女士在这个关键时刻都会为我的女主人公感到同情，因为每个年轻女士都曾在某个时候或其他时候经历过同样的激动。所有人都曾经，或者至少所有人都相信自己，因为追捕他们想要避开的人而处于危险之中。所有人都渴望得到他们想要取悦的人的关注。索普一家一加入他们，凯瑟琳的痛苦就开始了。她对约翰·索普是否向她走来感到不安，尽可能地躲在他的视线之外，当他对她说话时，她假装没有听到。舞会结束了，乡村舞蹈开始了，她没有看到蒂尔尼一家。

‘Do not be frightened, my dear Catherine,’ whispered Isabella, ‘but I am really going to dance with your brother again. I declare positively it is quite shocking. I tell him he ought to be ashamed of himself, but you and John must keep us in countenance. Make haste, my dear creature, and come to us. John is just walked off, but he will be back in a moment.’
“别害怕，我亲爱的凯瑟琳，”伊莎贝拉低声说道，“但我真的要再次和你哥哥跳舞了。”我肯定地宣布，这是相当令人震惊的。我告诉他他应该为自己感到羞耻，但你和约翰必须让我们保持面子。快点，我亲爱的生物，到我们这里来。约翰刚刚走开，但他一会儿就会回来。”

Catherine had neither time nor inclination to answer. The others walked away, John Thorpe was still in view, and she gave herself up for lost. That she might not appear, however, to observe or expect him, she kept her eyes intently fixed on her fan; and a self-condemnation for her folly, in supposing that among such a crowd they should even meet with the Tilneys in any reasonable time, had just passed through her mind, when she suddenly found herself addressed and again solicited to dance, by Mr. Tilney himself. With what sparkling eyes and ready motion she granted his request, and with how pleasing a flutter of heart she went with him to the set, may be easily imagined. To escape, and, as she believed, so narrowly escape John Thorpe, and to be asked, so immediately on his joining her, asked by Mr. Tilney, as if he had sought her on purpose! — it did not appear to her that life could supply any greater felicity.
凯瑟琳既没有时间也没有意愿回答。其他人都走开了，约翰·索普仍在她的视野中，她自认迷失了。然而，为了避免显得她在观察或期待他，她的眼睛一直专注地盯着她的扇子。她对自己的愚蠢行为进行了自我谴责，认为在这样一群人中，他们甚至应该在任何合理的时间内与蒂尔尼一家见面，这时她突然发现自己被先生邀请并再次跳舞。蒂尔尼本人。不难想象，她的眼睛闪闪发亮，动作敏捷，答应了他的请求，带着多么愉快的心情和他一起去片场。逃离，正如她所相信的那样，险些逃离约翰·索普，并在他加入她后立即被蒂尔尼先生询问，就好像他是故意寻找她一样！ ——在她看来，生活并不能提供更多的幸福。

Scarcely had they worked themselves into the quiet possession of a place, however, when her attention was claimed by John Thorpe, who stood behind her. ‘Heyday, Miss Morland!’ said he. ‘What is the meaning of this? I thought you and I were to dance together.’
然而，他们刚刚安静地占据了一个地方，她的注意力就被站在她身后的约翰·索普吸引了。 “干得好，莫兰小姐！”他说道。 '这是什么意思？我以为你和我要一起跳舞。

‘I wonder you should think so, for you never asked me.’
“我不知道你会这么想，因为你从来没有问过我。”

‘That is a good one, by Jove! I asked you as soon as I came into the room, and I was just going to ask you again, but when I turned round, you were gone! This is a cursed shabby trick! I only came for the sake of dancing with you, and I firmly believe you were engaged to me ever since Monday. Yes; I remember, I asked you while you were waiting in the lobby for your cloak. And here have I been telling all my acquaintance that I was going to dance with the prettiest girl in the room; and when they see you standing up with somebody else, they will quiz me famously.’
‘这是一件好事，天哪！我一进屋就问你，正想再问你一次，可一转身，你却不见了！这是一个该死的卑鄙伎俩！我只是为了和你跳舞才来的，而且我坚信你从周一就已经和我订婚了。是的;我记得，当你在大厅等你的斗篷时，我问过你。我在这里告诉我所有的熟人，我要和房间里最漂亮的女孩跳舞；当他们看到你和别人站在一起时，他们就会对我进行著名的提问。

‘Oh, no; they will never think of me, after such a description as that.’
'不好了;经过这样的描述，他们永远不会想到我。

‘By heavens, if they do not, I will kick them out of the room for blockheads. What chap have you there?’ Catherine satisfied his curiosity. ‘Tilney,’ he repeated. ‘Hum — I do not know him. A good figure of a man; well put together. Does he want a horse? Here is a friend of mine, Sam Fletcher, has got one to sell that would suit anybody. A famous clever animal for the road — only forty guineas. I had fifty minds to buy it myself, for it is one of my maxims always to buy a good horse when I meet with one; but it would not answer my purpose, it would not do for the field. I would give any money for a real good hunter. I have three now, the best that ever were backed. I would not take eight hundred guineas for them. Fletcher and I mean to get a house in Leicestershire, against the next season. It is so d — uncomfortable, living at an inn.’
“老天爷，如果他们不这样做，我就把他们当傻子踢出房间。”凯瑟琳满足了他的好奇心。 “蒂尔尼，”他重复道。 ‘嗯——我不认识他。男人的好身材；很好地组合在一起。他想要一匹马吗？我的一位朋友萨姆·弗莱彻（Sam Fletcher）出售了一款适合任何人的产品。一种著名的聪明动物，只卖四十几尼。我自己有五十个想法去买它，因为我的座右铭之一就是遇上一匹好马，就买一匹好马；但这并不能满足我的目的，也不适合这个领域。我愿意为一个真正优秀的猎人付出任何金钱。我现在有三个，是有史以来最好的。我不会为他们花八百几尼。弗莱彻和我打算在下赛季之前在莱斯特郡买一套房子。住在旅馆真是太不舒服了。”

This was the last sentence by which he could weary Catherine’s attention, for he was just then borne off by the resistless pressure of a long string of passing ladies. Her partner now drew near, and said, ‘That gentleman would have put me out of patience, had he stayed with you half a minute longer. He has no business to withdraw the attention of my partner from me. We have entered into a contract of mutual agreeableness for the space of an evening, and all our agreeableness belongs solely to each other for that time. Nobody can fasten themselves on the notice of one, without injuring the rights of the other. I consider a country-dance as an emblem of marriage. Fidelity and complaisance are the principal duties of both; and those men who do not choose to dance or marry themselves, have no business with the partners or wives of their neighbours.’
这是他能分散凯瑟琳注意力的最后一句话，因为他刚刚被一长串路过的女士们的不可抗拒的压力吓跑了。她的搭档走近了，说道：“那位先生如果在你身边多呆半分钟，我就会失去耐心。”他无权将我伴侣的注意力从我身上转移开。我们已经签订了一份在一个晚上的时间里相互愉快的合同，而在那段时间里，我们所有的愉快都只属于彼此。没有人能够在不损害另一方权利的情况下，只关注其中一方。我认为乡村舞是婚姻的象征。忠诚和顺从是双方的主要职责；那些不选择跳舞或结婚的男人与邻居的伴侣或妻子没有关系。

‘But they are such very different things!’
“但它们是非常不同的东西！”

‘ — That you think they cannot be compared together.’
“——你认为它们不能放在一起比较。”

‘To be sure not. People that marry can never part, but must go and keep house together. People that dance only stand opposite each other in a long room for half an hour.’
‘当然不是。结婚的人永远不能分开，但必须一起料理家务。跳舞的人只会在一个长房间里面对面站半个小时。”

‘And such is your definition of matrimony and dancing. Taken in that light certainly, their resemblance is not striking; but I think I could place them in such a view. You will allow, that in both, man has the advantage of choice, woman only the power of refusal; that in both, it is an engagement between man and woman, formed for the advantage of each; and that when once entered into, they belong exclusively to each other till the moment of its dissolution; that it is their duty, each to endeavour to give the other no cause for wishing that he or she had bestowed themselves elsewhere, and their best interest to keep their own imaginations from wandering towards the perfections of their neighbours, or fancying that they should have been better off with anyone else. You will allow all this?’
“这就是你对婚姻和舞蹈的定义。当然，从这个角度来看，它们的相似之处并不惊人。但我想我可以把他们放在这样的角度。你会承认，在这两种情况下，男人有选择的优势，女人只有拒绝的权力；两者都是男人和女人之间的契约，是为了各自的利益而形成的；一旦成立，它们就完全属于彼此，直到解散为止；他们有责任努力不让对方有理由希望他或她把自己奉献给别处，而他们的最大利益就是保持自己的想象力不去追求邻居的完美，或者幻想他们应该拥有和其他人相处得更好。你会允许这一切吗？

‘Yes, to be sure, as you state it, all this sounds very well; but still they are so very different. I cannot look upon them at all in the same light, nor think the same duties belong to them.’
“是的，诚然，正如你所说，这一切听起来都很好；但它们仍然非常不同。我根本无法以同样的眼光看待他们，也不认为他们承担同样的职责。

‘In one respect, there certainly is a difference. In marriage, the man is supposed to provide for the support of the woman, the woman to make the home agreeable to the man; he is to purvey, and she is to smile. But in dancing, their duties are exactly changed; the agreeableness, the compliance are expected from him, while she furnishes the fan and the lavender water. That, I suppose, was the difference of duties which struck you, as rendering the conditions incapable of comparison.’
“从某一方面来说，确实存在差异。在婚姻中，男方要为女方提供赡养费，女方要让男方感到舒适的家；他负责供应，她负责微笑。但在舞蹈中，他们的职责完全改变了；当她提供风扇和薰衣草水时，他会表现出友善和顺从。我想，这就是让你感到震惊的职责差异，因为这使得条件无法进行比较。

‘No, indeed, I never thought of that.’
“不，确实，我从来没有想过这一点。”

‘Then I am quite at a loss. One thing, however, I must observe. This disposition on your side is rather alarming. You totally disallow any similarity in the obligations; and may I not thence infer that your notions of the duties of the dancing state are not so strict as your partner might wish? Have I not reason to fear that if the gentleman who spoke to you just now were to return, or if any other gentleman were to address you, there would be nothing to restrain you from conversing with him as long as you chose?’
‘那我就很茫然了。然而，我必须观察一件事。你这边的这种性格，是相当令人警惕的。您完全不允许义务有任何相似之处；我是否可以由此推断出，您对舞蹈国家职责的看法并不像您的舞伴希望的那么严格？难道我没有理由担心，如果刚才与你说话的那位先生回来了，或者如果有其他先生向你说话，只要你愿意，就没有什么可以阻止你与他交谈吗？

‘Mr. Thorpe is such a very particular friend of my brother’s, that if he talks to me, I must talk to him again; but there are hardly three young men in the room besides him that I have any acquaintance with.’
'先生。索普是我哥哥的一个非常特别的朋友，如果他跟我说话，我就必须再次和他说话。但除了他之外，房间里几乎没有三个我认识的年轻人。

‘And is that to be my only security? Alas, alas!’
“那是我唯一的安全感吗？”唉，唉！

‘Nay, I am sure you cannot have a better; for if I do not know anybody, it is impossible for me to talk to them; and, besides, I do not want to talk to anybody.’
‘不，我相信你不可能有更好的了；因为如果我不认识任何人，我就不可能与他们交谈；而且，除此之外，我不想和任何人说话。

‘Now you have given me a security worth having; and I shall proceed with courage. Do you find Bath as agreeable as when I had the honour of making the inquiry before?’
‘现在你给了我值得拥有的安全感；我将勇敢地前进。你觉得巴斯还和我之前有幸询问时一样愉快吗？

‘Yes, quite — more so, indeed.’
“是的，确实如此——确实更是如此。”

‘More so! Take care, or you will forget to be tired of it at the proper time. You ought to be tired at the end of six weeks.’
’更是如此！小心点，不然你会在适当的时候忘记厌倦的。六周结束后你应该会感到疲倦。”

‘I do not think I should be tired, if I were to stay here six months.’
“如果我要在这里待六个月，我认为我不会感到疲倦。”

‘Bath, compared with London, has little variety, and so everybody finds out every year. ‘For six weeks, I allow Bath is pleasant enough; but beyond that, it is the most tiresome place in the world.’ You would be told so by people of all descriptions, who come regularly every winter, lengthen their six weeks into ten or twelve, and go away at last because they can afford to stay no longer.’
“与伦敦相比，巴斯没有什么变化，所以每个人每年都会发现。 “六个星期以来，我让巴斯变得足够愉快；但除此之外，它是世界上最令人厌烦的地方。”各种各样的人都会这样告诉你，他们每年冬天都会定期来这里，把六个星期延长到十到十二个星期，最后离开，因为他们负担得起不再留下来了。

‘Well, other people must judge for themselves, and those who go to London may think nothing of Bath. But I, who live in a small retired village in the country, can never find greater sameness in such a place as this than in my own home; for here are a variety of amusements, a variety of things to be seen and done all day long, which I can know nothing of there.’
“好吧，其他人必须自己判断，那些去伦敦的人可能不会想到巴斯。但我这个住在乡下一个退休小村庄的人，在这样的地方找不到比在我自己家里更相似的地方了。因为这里整天有各种各样的娱乐、各种各样的事情可看、可做，而我在那里却一无所知。

‘You are not fond of the country.’
“你不喜欢这个国家。”

‘Yes, I am. I have always lived there, and always been very happy. But certainly there is much more sameness in a country life than in a Bath life. One day in the country is exactly like another.’
'我是。我一直住在那里，而且一直很幸福。但乡村生活肯定比巴斯生活有更多的相似之处。在这个国家的一天与另一天完全一样。

‘But then you spend your time so much more rationally in the country.’
“但你在乡下度过的时间就会更加理性。”

‘Do I?’
“我是吗？”

‘Do you not?’
“你不这么认为吗？”

‘I do not believe there is much difference.’
“我不认为有太大区别。”

‘Here you are in pursuit only of amusement all day long.’
“你在这里整天只追求娱乐。”

‘And so I am at home — only I do not find so much of it. I walk about here, and so I do there; but here I see a variety of people in every street, and there I can only go and call on Mrs. Allen.’
“所以我就在家里了——只是我找不到那么多东西。”我在这里走来走去，在那里也如此；但在这里我看到每条街道都有各种各样的人，而在那里我只能去拜访艾伦太太。

Mr. Tilney was very much amused.
蒂尔尼先生非常好笑。

‘Only go and call on Mrs. Allen!’ he repeated. ‘What a picture of intellectual poverty! However, when you sink into this abyss again, you will have more to say. You will be able to talk of Bath, and of all that you did here.’
“只要去拜访一下艾伦太太就可以了！”他重复道。 “这真是一幅智力贫困的景象啊！然而，当你再次陷入这个深渊时，你就会有更多的话可说。你将能够谈论巴斯，以及你在这里所做的一切。”

‘Oh! Yes. I shall never be in want of something to talk of again to Mrs. Allen, or anybody else. I really believe I shall always be talking of Bath, when I am at home again — I do like it so very much. If I could but have Papa and Mamma, and the rest of them here, I suppose I should be too happy! James’s coming (my eldest brother) is quite delightful — and especially as it turns out that the very family we are just got so intimate with are his intimate friends already. Oh! Who can ever be tired of Bath?’
'哦！是的。我将永远不再需要与艾伦夫人或其他任何人谈论什么。我真的相信当我再次回到家时，我将永远谈论巴斯——我真的非常喜欢它。如果我能有爸爸、妈妈，还有他们其他人在，我想我该高兴极了！詹姆斯（我的大哥）的到来非常令人高兴——尤其是事实证明，我们刚刚如此亲密的家人已经是他的亲密朋友了。哦！谁会对巴斯感到厌倦呢？

‘Not those who bring such fresh feelings of every sort to it as you do. But papas and mammas, and brothers, and intimate friends are a good deal gone by, to most of the frequenters of Bath — and the honest relish of balls and plays, and everyday sights, is past with them.’ Here their conversation closed, the demands of the dance becoming now too importunate for a divided attention.
“不是那些像你一样给它带来各种新鲜感觉的人。但对于巴斯的大多数常客来说，爸爸、妈妈、兄弟和亲密的朋友都已经过去了——而对球和比赛以及日常景象的诚实品味也已经成为过去。”他们的谈话到此结束，舞蹈的要求现在变得过于迫切，无法分散注意力。

Soon after their reaching the bottom of the set, Catherine perceived herself to be earnestly regarded by a gentleman who stood among the lookers-on, immediately behind her partner. He was a very handsome man, of a commanding aspect, past the bloom, but not past the vigour of life; and with his eye still directed towards her, she saw him presently address Mr. Tilney in a familiar whisper. Confused by his notice, and blushing from the fear of its being excited by something wrong in her appearance, she turned away her head. But while she did so, the gentleman retreated, and her partner, coming nearer, said, ‘I see that you guess what I have just been asked. That gentleman knows your name, and you have a right to know his. It is General Tilney, my father.’
他们到达舞台底部后不久，凯瑟琳发现自己受到了一位绅士的热切注视，这位绅士站在旁观者中，就在她搭档的后面。他是一个非常英俊的男人，威风凛凛，虽然已经过了花期，但还没有失去生命的活力；他的眼睛仍然盯着她，她看到他立即用熟悉的低语对蒂尔尼先生说话。她对他的注意感到困惑，又担心自己的外表不对劲，脸红了，她转过头去。但当她这么做的时候，这位绅士退开了，她的伴侣走近了，说道：“我看到你猜到我刚才问的是什么了。”那位先生知道你的名字，你也有权知道他的名字。这是蒂尔尼将军，我的父亲。

Catherine’s answer was only ‘Oh!’ — but it was an ‘Oh!’ expressing everything needful: attention to his words, and perfect reliance on their truth. With real interest and strong admiration did her eye now follow the general, as he moved through the crowd, and ‘How handsome a family they are!’ was her secret remark.
凯瑟琳的回答只是“哦！”——但这个“哦！”表达了一切必要的东西：注意他的话，并完全信赖他所说的真相。当将军穿过人群时，她的目光充满了真正的兴趣和强烈的钦佩，“他们是多么英俊的一家人！”这是她的秘密评论。

In chatting with Miss Tilney before the evening concluded, a new source of felicity arose to her. She had never taken a country walk since her arrival in Bath. Miss Tilney, to whom all the commonly frequented environs were familiar, spoke of them in terms which made her all eagerness to know them too; and on her openly fearing that she might find nobody to go with her, it was proposed by the brother and sister that they should join in a walk, some morning or other. ‘I shall like it,’ she cried, ‘beyond anything in the world; and do not let us put it off — let us go tomorrow.’ This was readily agreed to, with only a proviso of Miss Tilney’s, that it did not rain, which Catherine was sure it would not. At twelve o’clock, they were to call for her in Pulteney Street; and ‘Remember — twelve o’clock,’ was her parting speech to her new friend. Of her other, her older, her more established friend, Isabella, of whose fidelity and worth she had enjoyed a fortnight’s experience, she scarcely saw anything during the evening. Yet, though longing to make her acquainted with her happiness, she cheerfully submitted to the wish of Mr. Allen, which took them rather early away, and her spirits danced within her, as she danced in her chair all the way home.
晚上结束前与蒂尔尼小姐聊天时，她产生了新的幸福源泉。自从抵达巴斯以来，她从未在乡村散步过。蒂尔尼小姐对所有经常光顾的环境都很熟悉，她谈论这些地方的用语使她也非常渴望了解它们。由于她公开担心没有人陪她一起去，兄妹俩提议他们应该在某个早晨或其他时间一起去散步。 “我会喜欢它，”她喊道，“胜过世界上任何东西；我们不能再拖延了——明天就出发吧。”大家欣然同意，只附加了蒂尔尼小姐的一个附带条件，那就是天不下雨，而凯瑟琳确信不会下雨。十二点钟，他们到普尔特尼街来找她。 “记住——十二点”是她对新朋友的临别致辞。她的另一个，她年长的，更成熟的朋友伊莎贝拉，她的忠诚和价值她已经享受了两周的经历，她在晚上几乎没有看到任何东西。然而，尽管她渴望让她熟悉自己的幸福，但她还是高兴地服从了艾伦先生的愿望，这让他们很早就离开了，她的精神在她体内跳舞，一路上她在椅子上跳舞回家。

Chapter 11
第11章

The morrow brought a very sober-looking morning, the sun making only a few efforts to appear, and Catherine augured from it everything most favourable to her wishes. A bright morning so early in the year, she allowed, would generally turn to rain, but a cloudy one foretold improvement as the day advanced. She applied to Mr. Allen for confirmation of her hopes, but Mr. Allen, not having his own skies and barometer about him, declined giving any absolute promise of sunshine. She applied to Mrs. Allen, and Mrs. Allen’s opinion was more positive. ‘She had no doubt in the world of its being a very fine day, if the clouds would only go off, and the sun keep out.’
第二天是一个看起来非常清醒的早晨，太阳只勉强出现了一些，凯瑟琳从中预感到一切最有利于她的愿望。她承认，今年这么早的一个晴朗的早晨通常会变成雨，但随着时间的推移，多云的早晨预示着情况会有所改善。她向艾伦先生申请确认她的希望，但艾伦先生没有自己的天空和晴雨表，拒绝给予任何绝对的阳光承诺。她向艾伦夫人提出了申请，艾伦夫人的意见比较积极。 “她坚信，只要乌云散去，阳光不出来，今天就会是一个非常晴朗的日子。”

At about eleven o’clock, however, a few specks of small rain upon the windows caught Catherine’s watchful eye, and ‘Oh! dear, I do believe it will be wet,’ broke from her in a most desponding tone.
然而，到了十一点左右，窗户上的几滴小雨引起了凯瑟琳警惕的目光，“哦！亲爱的，我相信它会湿的。”她用一种极其沮丧的语气说道。

‘I thought how it would be,’ said Mrs. Allen.
“我想过会怎样，”艾伦夫人说。

‘No walk for me today,’ sighed Catherine; ‘but perhaps it may come to nothing, or it may hold up before twelve.’
“今天我不适合散步，”凯瑟琳叹了口气。 “但也许它可能一事无成，或者它可能在十二点之前坚持下去。”

‘Perhaps it may, but then, my dear, it will be so dirty.’
“也许可以，但是亲爱的，那样的话就会很脏了。”

‘Oh! That will not signify; I never mind dirt.’
'哦！那并不意味着；我从不介意污垢。

‘No,’ replied her friend very placidly, ‘I know you never mind dirt.’
“不，”她的朋友非常平静地回答，“我知道你从不介意污垢。”

After a short pause, ‘It comes on faster and faster!’ said Catherine, as she stood watching at a window.
短暂的停顿后，“它来得越来越快！”凯瑟琳站在窗边看着说。

‘So it does indeed. If it keeps raining, the streets will be very wet.’
‘确实如此。如果一直下雨，街道会很湿。”

‘There are four umbrellas up already. How I hate the sight of an umbrella!’
“已经有四把伞了。”我多么讨厌看到雨伞啊！

‘They are disagreeable things to carry. I would much rather take a chair at any time.’
“它们是令人讨厌的东西。”我宁愿随时坐在椅子上。

‘It was such a nice-looking morning! I felt so convinced it would be dry!’
‘这真是一个美好的早晨啊！我确信它会干的！

‘Anybody would have thought so indeed. There will be very few people in the pump-room, if it rains all the morning. I hope Mr. Allen will put on his greatcoat when he goes, but I dare say he will not, for he had rather do anything in the world than walk out in a greatcoat; I wonder he should dislike it, it must be so comfortable.’
“确实任何人都会这么想。如果整个上午都下雨的话，泵房里的人就会很少。我希望艾伦先生走时能穿上他的大衣，但我敢说他不会，因为他宁愿做任何事，也不愿穿着大衣出门；我不知道他会不喜欢它，它一定很舒服。

The rain continued — fast, though not heavy. Catherine went every five minutes to the clock, threatening on each return that, if it still kept on raining another five minutes, she would give up the matter as hopeless. The clock struck twelve, and it still rained. ‘You will not be able to go, my dear.’
雨继续下着，虽然雨不大，但雨下得很快。凯瑟琳每隔五分钟就去报时一次，每次回来时都威胁说，如果雨再下五分钟，她就会放弃这件事，因为这件事已经无望了。时钟敲响了十二点，雨还在下。 “你不能走，亲爱的。”

‘I do not quite despair yet. I shall not give it up till a quarter after twelve. This is just the time of day for it to clear up, and I do think it looks a little lighter. There, it is twenty minutes after twelve, and now I shall give it up entirely. Oh! That we had such weather here as they had at Udolpho, or at least in Tuscany and the south of France! — the night that poor St. Aubin died! — such beautiful weather!’
“我还没有完全绝望。十二点一刻之前我不会放弃。这正是一天中天气晴朗的时候，我确实认为天气看起来有点亮了。现在已经十二点二十分了，现在我要完全放弃了。哦！我们这里的天气就像他们在乌多尔福一样，或者至少在托斯卡纳和法国南部！ ——可怜的圣奥宾去世的那天晚上！ ——天气真好！

At half past twelve, when Catherine’s anxious attention to the weather was over and she could no longer claim any merit from its amendment, the sky began voluntarily to clear. A gleam of sunshine took her quite by surprise; she looked round; the clouds were parting, and she instantly returned to the window to watch over and encourage the happy appearance. Ten minutes more made it certain that a bright afternoon would succeed, and justified the opinion of Mrs. Allen, who had ‘always thought it would clear up.’ But whether Catherine might still expect her friends, whether there had not been too much rain for Miss Tilney to venture, must yet be a question.
十二点半，当凯瑟琳对天气的焦急关注结束，她再也无法从天气的修正中获得任何好处时，天空开始自动放晴。一缕阳光让她大吃一惊。她环顾四周；云彩散去，她立刻回到窗前，注视着、鼓励着幸福的样子。再过十分钟，就可以确定一个晴朗的下午将会成功，并证明了艾伦夫人的意见，她“一直认为天气会晴朗。”但是凯瑟琳是否仍然会期待她的朋友们，是否有没有下太多的雨对于蒂尔尼小姐来说，是否要冒险，肯定是一个问题。

It was too dirty for Mrs. Allen to accompany her husband to the pump-room; he accordingly set off by himself, and Catherine had barely watched him down the street when her notice was claimed by the approach of the same two open carriages, containing the same three people that had surprised her so much a few mornings back.
艾伦太太无法陪丈夫去水泵房，因为那里太脏了。因此，他自己出发了，凯瑟琳刚刚在街上看到他，就被同样的两辆敞篷马车驶近引起了她的注意，车上坐着三个人，几天前早上，这三个人让她大吃一惊。

‘Isabella, my brother, and Mr. Thorpe, I declare! They are coming for me perhaps — but I shall not go — I cannot go indeed, for you know Miss Tilney may still call.’ Mrs. Allen agreed to it. John Thorpe was soon with them, and his voice was with them yet sooner, for on the stairs he was calling out to Miss Morland to be quick. ‘Make haste! Make haste!’ as he threw open the door. ‘Put on your hat this moment — there is no time to be lost — we are going to Bristol. How d’ye do, Mrs. Allen?’
“伊莎贝拉，我的兄弟，还有索普先生，我宣布！他们也许会来找我——但我不会去——我确实不能去，因为你知道蒂尔尼小姐可能还会打电话来。”艾伦夫人同意了。约翰·索普很快就和他们在一起了，他的声音也更快地和他们在一起了，因为他在楼梯上喊着莫兰小姐快点。 '赶快！快点！”他猛地打开门。 “现在戴上帽子——没有时间可以浪费——我们要去布里斯托尔。艾伦太太，你好吗？

‘To Bristol! Is not that a great way off? But, however, I cannot go with you today, because I am engaged; I expect some friends every moment.’ This was of course vehemently talked down as no reason at all; Mrs. Allen was called on to second him, and the two others walked in, to give their assistance. ‘My sweetest Catherine, is not this delightful? We shall have a most heavenly drive. You are to thank your brother and me for the scheme; it darted into our heads at breakfast-time, I verily believe at the same instant; and we should have been off two hours ago if it had not been for this detestable rain. But it does not signify, the nights are moonlight, and we shall do delightfully. Oh! I am in such ecstasies at the thoughts of a little country air and quiet! So much better than going to the Lower Rooms. We shall drive directly to Clifton and dine there; and, as soon as dinner is over, if there is time for it, go on to Kingsweston.’
“去布里斯托尔！这不是一个很好的出路吗？但是，今天我不能和你一起去，因为我订婚了；我每时每刻都期待着一些朋友。”当然，这被激烈地贬低为根本没有理由;艾伦夫人被叫去协助他，另外两人走进来提供帮助。 “我最可爱的凯瑟琳，这不是令人愉快吗？我们将拥有最天堂般的动力。你要感谢你的兄弟和我的计划；我确实相信，在早餐时间，它就在同一时刻突然出现在我们的脑海中。要不是这场可恶的雨，我们两个小时前就该出发了。但这并不意味着，夜晚有月光，我们就可以快乐地做事。哦！一想到乡村的空气和安静，我就感到欣喜若狂！比去下层房间好多了。我们将直接开车前往克利夫顿并在那里用餐；晚餐一结束，如果还有时间，就继续前往 Kingsweston。

‘I doubt our being able to do so much,’ said Morland.
“我怀疑我们是否能做这么多，”莫兰说。

‘You croaking fellow!’ cried Thorpe. ‘We shall be able to do ten times more. Kingsweston! Aye, and Blaize Castle too, and anything else we can hear of; but here is your sister says she will not go.’
“你这个嘎嘎叫的家伙！”索普叫道。 ‘我们将能够做十倍以上的事情。金维斯顿！是的，还有布莱兹城堡，以及我们能听到的其他任何东西；但你姐姐说她不会去。”

‘Blaize Castle!’ cried Catherine. ‘What is that’?’
“布莱兹城堡！”凯瑟琳喊道。 '那是什么'？'

‘The finest place in England — worth going fifty miles at any time to see.’
“英格兰最好的地方——任何时候都值得走五十英里去看看。”

‘What, is it really a castle, an old castle?’
“什么，这真的是一座城堡，一座古老的城堡吗？”

‘The oldest in the kingdom.’
“王国里最古老的。”

‘But is it like what one reads of?’
“但这真的像人们读到的那样吗？”

‘Exactly — the very same.’
“一模一样——一模一样。”

‘But now really — are there towers and long galleries?’
“但现在真的——有塔楼和长廊吗？”

‘By dozens.’
“几十个。”

‘Then I should like to see it; but I cannot — I cannot go.
“那我很想看看；但我不能——我不能去。

‘Not go! My beloved creature, what do you mean’?’
'不去！我心爱的生物，你这是什么意思？

‘I cannot go, because’ — looking down as she spoke, fearful of Isabella’s smile — ‘I expect Miss Tilney and her brother to call on me to take a country walk. They promised to come at twelve, only it rained; but now, as it is so fine, I dare say they will be here soon.’
“我不能去，因为”——她说话时低着头，害怕伊莎贝拉的微笑——“我希望蒂尔尼小姐和她的兄弟会叫我去乡间散步。”他们答应十二点来，只是下雨了。但现在，天气这么好，我敢说他们很快就会到这里。”

‘Not they indeed,’ cried Thorpe; ‘for, as we turned into Broad Street, I saw them — does he not drive a phaeton with bright chestnuts?’
“确实不是，”索普喊道。 “因为，当我们拐进布罗德街时，我看到了他们——他开的不是一辆亮栗色的四轮马车吗？”

‘I do not know indeed.’
“我确实不知道。”

‘Yes, I know he does; I saw him. You are talking of the man you danced with last night, are not you?’
“是的，我知道他知道；”我看到了他。你说的是昨晚和你跳舞的那个男人，不是吗？

‘Yes.
'是的。

‘Well, I saw him at that moment turn up the Lansdown Road, driving a smart-looking girl.’
“嗯，那一刻我看到他开上了兰斯当路，带着一个看上去很聪明的女孩。”

‘Did you indeed?’
“你确实是这样吗？”

‘Did upon my soul; knew him again directly, and he seemed to have got some very pretty cattle too.’
‘对我的灵魂造成了伤害；我又直接认识了他，而且他似乎也养了一些非常漂亮的牛。

‘It is very odd! But I suppose they thought it would be too dirty for a walk.’
‘这很奇怪！但我想他们认为这里太脏了，不适合散步。”

‘And well they might, for I never saw so much dirt in my life. Walk! You could no more walk than you could fly! It has not been so dirty the whole winter; it is ankle-deep everywhere.’
“好吧，他们可能会这样做，因为我一生中从未见过如此多的污垢。走！你不能走路，就像你不能飞一样！整个冬天都没这么脏过；到处都是齐脚踝深的。

Isabella corroborated it: ‘My dearest Catherine, you cannot form an idea of the dirt; come, you must go; you cannot refuse going now.’
伊莎贝拉证实了这一点：“我最亲爱的凯瑟琳，你无法对泥土形成概念；来了，就必须走；你现在不能拒绝去。

‘I should like to see the castle; but may we go all over it? May we go up every staircase, and into every suite of rooms?’
“我想去看看城堡；但我们可以把它全部讲一遍吗？我们可以爬上每一个楼梯，进入每间房间吗？

‘Yes, yes, every hole and corner.’
“是的，是的，每个洞和角落。”

‘But then, if they should only be gone out for an hour till it is dryer, and call by and by?’
“但是，如果他们只出去一个小时，直到天气干燥，然后打电话过来呢？”

‘Make yourself easy, there is no danger of that, for I heard Tilney hallooing to a man who was just passing by on horseback, that they were going as far as Wick Rocks.’
“放轻松点，没有危险，因为我听到蒂尔尼向一个骑马路过的人喊道，他们要去威克岩那么远。”

‘Then I will. Shall I go, Mrs. Allen?’
'接着我会。我可以走了吗，艾伦夫人？

‘Just as you please, my dear.’
“随你便，亲爱的。”

‘Mrs. Allen, you must persuade her to go,’ was the general cry. Mrs. Allen was not inattentive to it: ‘Well, my dear,’ said she, ‘suppose you go.’ And in two minutes they were off.
'太太。艾伦，你必须说服她走。”这是大家的呼声。艾伦夫人对此并没有漫不经心：“好吧，亲爱的，”她说，“假设你走了。”两分钟后他们就出发了。

Catherine’s feelings, as she got into the carriage, were in a very unsettled state; divided between regret for the loss of one great pleasure, and the hope of soon enjoying another, almost its equal in degree, however unlike in kind. She could not think the Tilneys had acted quite well by her, in so readily giving up their engagement, without sending her any message of excuse. It was now but an hour later than the time fixed on for the beginning of their walk; and, in spite of what she had heard of the prodigious accumulation of dirt in the course of that hour, she could not from her own observation help thinking that they might have gone with very little inconvenience. To feel herself slighted by them was very painful. On the other hand, the delight of exploring an edifice like Udolpho, as her fancy represented Blaize Castle to be, was such a counterpoise of good as might console her for almost anything.
凯瑟琳一坐上马车，心情就十分不安。分为两种：一种是对失去一种巨大快乐的遗憾，另一种是希望很快就能享受另一种快乐，两者的程度几乎相同，但种类不同。她不认为蒂尔尼夫妇对她表现得很好，如此轻易地放弃了订婚，而且没有给她发任何借口。现在比他们预定的出发时间只晚了一个小时。尽管她听说在那一小时内积满了惊人的灰尘，但根据她自己的观察，她不禁认为他们离开时可能没有带来什么不便。感觉自己被他们轻视是非常痛苦的。另一方面，探索像乌道夫这样的建筑的乐趣，就像她想象中的布莱兹城堡一样，是一种很好的平衡，几乎可以安慰她任何事情。

They passed briskly down Pulteney Street, and through Laura Place, without the exchange of many words. Thorpe talked to his horse, and she meditated, by turns, on broken promises and broken arches, phaetons and false hangings, Tilneys and trap-doors. As they entered Argyle Buildings, however, she was roused by this address from her companion, ‘Who is that girl who looked at you so hard as she went by?’
他们轻快地穿过普尔特尼街，穿过劳拉广场，没有交流太多话。索普对着他的马说话，而她则轮流沉思着违背的诺言和破碎的拱门、四轮马车和虚假的悬挂、蒂尔尼门和活板门。然而，当他们进入阿盖尔大厦时，她被同伴的这句话惊醒了，“那个走过时用眼神盯着你看的女孩是谁？”

‘Who? Where?’
'WHO？在哪里？'

‘On the right-hand pavement — she must be almost out of sight now.’ Catherine looked round and saw Miss Tilney leaning on her brother’s arm, walking slowly down the street. She saw them both looking back at her. ‘Stop, stop, Mr. Thorpe,’ she impatiently cried; ‘it is Miss Tilney; it is indeed. How could you tell me they were gone? Stop, stop, I will get out this moment and go to them.’ But to what purpose did she speak? Thorpe only lashed his horse into a brisker trot; the Tilneys, who had soon ceased to look after her, were in a moment out of sight round the corner of Laura Place, and in another moment she was herself whisked into the marketplace. Still, however, and during the length of another street, she entreated him to stop. ‘Pray, pray stop, Mr. Thorpe. I cannot go on. I will not go on. I must go back to Miss Tilney.’ But Mr. Thorpe only laughed, smacked his whip, encouraged his horse, made odd noises, and drove on; and Catherine, angry and vexed as she was, having no power of getting away, was obliged to give up the point and submit. Her reproaches, however, were not spared. ‘How could you deceive me so, Mr. Thorpe? How could you say that you saw them driving up the Lansdown Road? I would not have had it happen so for the world. They must think it so strange, so rude of me! To go by them, too, without saying a word! You do not know how vexed I am; I shall have no pleasure at Clifton, nor in anything else. I had rather, ten thousand times rather, get out now, and walk back to them. How could you say you saw them driving out in a phaeton?’ Thorpe defended himself very stoutly, declared he had never seen two men so much alike in his life, and would hardly give up the point of its having been Tilney himself.
“在右边的人行道上——她现在肯定几乎看不见了。”凯瑟琳环顾四周，看到蒂尔尼小姐靠在她哥哥的手臂上，沿着街道慢慢地走着。她看到他们都回头看着她。 “停下来，停下来，索普先生，”她不耐烦地喊道。 “是蒂尔尼小姐；真的是。你怎么能告诉我他们走了？停下来，停下来，我现在就出去去找他们。”但是她这样说话的目的是什么？索普只是策马快步小跑。蒂尔尼一家很快就不再照顾她了，一会儿就在劳拉广场的拐角处消失了，一会儿她自己就被带到了市场。然而，在另一条街的长度上，她恳求他停下来。 “祈祷，祈祷停下来，索普先生。我无法继续。我不会继续下去了。我必须回到蒂尔尼小姐那里去。”但是索普先生只是笑了笑，拍打着他的鞭子，鼓励他的马，发出奇怪的声音，然后继续赶路。凯瑟琳虽然又气又恼，却无力逃脱，只得放弃这一点，屈服了。然而，她的责备也未能幸免。 “索普先生，你怎么能这样欺骗我？”你怎么能说你看到他们沿着兰斯当路行驶呢？对于世界来说，我不会让这种事发生。他们一定觉得我很奇怪，很粗鲁！也从他们身边走过去，一言不发！你不知道我有多烦恼；我不会在克利夫顿感到高兴，也不会在其他任何事情上感到高兴。我宁愿，一万次地，现在就出去，走回他们身边。你怎么能说你看到他们开着一辆四轮马车出去呢？”索普非常坚决地为自己辩护，声称他一生中从未见过两个如此相似的人，并且几乎不会放弃这个人就是蒂尔尼本人。

Their drive, even when this subject was over, was not likely to be very agreeable. Catherine’s complaisance was no longer what it had been in their former airing. She listened reluctantly, and her replies were short. Blaize Castle remained her only comfort; towards that, she still looked at intervals with pleasure; though rather than be disappointed of the promised walk, and especially rather than be thought ill of by the Tilneys, she would willingly have given up all the happiness which its walls could supply — the happiness of a progress through a long suite of lofty rooms, exhibiting the remains of magnificent furniture, though now for many years deserted — the happiness of being stopped in their way along narrow, winding vaults, by a low, grated door; or even of having their lamp, their only lamp, extinguished by a sudden gust of wind, and of being left in total darkness. In the meanwhile, they proceeded on their journey without any mischance, and were within view of the town of Keynsham, when a halloo from Morland, who was behind them, made his friend pull up, to know what was the matter. The others then came close enough for conversation, and Morland said, ‘We had better go back, Thorpe; it is too late to go on today; your sister thinks so as well as I. We have been exactly an hour coming from Pulteney Street, very little more than seven miles; and, I suppose, we have at least eight more to go. It will never do. We set out a great deal too late. We had much better put it off till another day, and turn round.’
即使这个话题结束了，他们的动力也不太令人愉快。凯瑟琳的殷勤已经不再是之前播出时的样子了。她不情愿地听着，回答也很简短。布莱兹城堡仍然是她唯一的安慰。对此，她仍然时不时地高兴地看看。尽管她不想对承诺的散步感到失望，尤其是不想被蒂尔尼一家人看不起，但她宁愿放弃它的墙壁所能提供的所有幸福——穿过一长套高高的房间的幸福，展示着华丽家具的残骸，尽管现在已经废弃多年了——沿着狭窄、蜿蜒的拱顶，被一扇低​​矮的、有栅栏的门拦住的幸福；或者甚至他们的灯，他们唯一的灯，突然被一阵风吹灭，陷入一片漆黑。与此同时，他们继续上路，没有发生任何意外，已经看到了凯恩沙姆镇，这时，身后的莫兰发出一声呼喊，让他的朋友停下来，想知道发生了什么事。然后其他人就靠得足够近了，可以交谈了，莫兰说：“我们最好回去了，索普；我们最好回去吧。”今天已经太晚了，无法继续下去了；你姐姐和我一样这么认为。我们从普尔特尼街过来已经整整一个小时了，只有七英里多一点；而且，我想，我们至少还有八个任务要做。它永远不会做。我们出发的时间太晚了。我们最好把它推迟到另一天，然后转身。

‘It is all one to me,’ replied Thorpe rather angrily; and instantly turning his horse, they were on their way back to Bath.
“这对我来说都是一回事，”索普相当愤怒地回答道。他们立刻调转马头，踏上返回巴斯的路。

‘If your brother had not got such a d — beast to drive,’ said he soon afterwards, ‘we might have done it very well. My horse would have trotted to Clifton within the hour, if left to himself, and I have almost broke my arm with pulling him in to that cursed broken-winded jade’s pace. Morland is a fool for not keeping a horse and gig of his own.’
“如果你的兄弟没有驾驭这样一头野兽，”他不久后说道，“我们可能会做得很好。”如果我的马独自一人的话，一个小时之内就会小跑到克利夫顿，而我把他拉到那该死的断气玉的步伐时几乎摔断了手臂。莫兰是个傻瓜，他没有养一匹属于自己的马和马车。

‘No, he is not,’ said Catherine warmly, ‘for I am sure he could not afford it.’
“不，他不是，”凯瑟琳热情地说，“因为我确信他买不起。”

‘And why cannot he afford it?’
“那他为什么买不起呢？”

‘Because he has not money enough.’
“因为他没有足够的钱。”

‘And whose fault is that?’
“那是谁的错呢？”

‘Nobody’s, that I know of.’ Thorpe then said something in the loud, incoherent way to which he had often recourse, about its being a d — thing to be miserly; and that if people who rolled in money could not afford things, he did not know who could, which Catherine did not even endeavour to understand. Disappointed of what was to have been the consolation for her first disappointment, she was less and less disposed either to be agreeable herself or to find her companion so; and they returned to Pulteney Street without her speaking twenty words.
“据我所知，没有人这么做。”索普接着用他经常使用的大声、语无伦次的方式说了一些话，说这是一件要吝啬的事情；如果有钱的人买不起东西，他不知道谁能买得起，凯瑟琳甚至没有试图理解这一点。她对第一次失望的安慰感到失望，越来越不愿意让自己和她的同伴如此相处。他们回到普尔特尼街，她没说二十个字。

As she entered the house, the footman told her that a gentleman and lady had called and inquired for her a few minutes after her setting off; that, when he told them she was gone out with Mr. Thorpe, the lady had asked whether any message had been left for her; and on his saying no, had felt for a card, but said she had none about her, and went away. Pondering over these heart-rending tidings, Catherine walked slowly upstairs. At the head of them she was met by Mr. Allen, who, on hearing the reason of their speedy return, said, ‘I am glad your brother had so much sense; I am glad you are come back. It was a strange, wild scheme.’
当她进屋时，男仆告诉她，在她出发几分钟后，一位绅士和一位女士打电话来询问她的情况。当他告诉他们她和索普先生出去时，那位女士问是否有人给她留了口信；当他拒绝时，她摸索了一张卡片，但说她身上没有卡片，然后就走了。想着这些令人心碎的消息，凯瑟琳慢慢地走上楼。艾伦先生在他们的前面迎接了她，艾伦先生在听到他们迅速返回的原因后说道：“我很高兴你的兄弟有如此明智的头脑；”我很高兴你回来了。这是一个奇怪、疯狂的计划。

They all spent the evening together at Thorpe’s. Catherine was disturbed and out of spirits; but Isabella seemed to find a pool of commerce, in the fate of which she shared, by private partnership with Morland, a very good equivalent for the quiet and country air of an inn at Clifton. Her satisfaction, too, in not being at the Lower Rooms was spoken more than once. ‘How I pity the poor creatures that are going there! How glad I am that I am not amongst them! I wonder whether it will be a full ball or not! They have not begun dancing yet. I would not be there for all the world. It is so delightful to have an evening now and then to oneself. I dare say it will not be a very good ball. I know the Mitchells will not be there. I am sure I pity everybody that is. But I dare say, Mr. Morland, you long to be at it, do not you? I am sure you do. Well, pray do not let anybody here be a restraint on you. I dare say we could do very well without you; but you men think yourselves of such consequence.’
他们一起在索普家度过了一个晚上。凯瑟琳心烦意乱，精神不振。但伊莎贝拉似乎找到了一个商业池，她通过与莫兰的私人合作，分享了这个商业池的命运，这与克利夫顿旅馆的安静和乡村空气非常相似。她也不止一次地说过，她对不在下层房间感到满意。 ‘我多么可怜那些要去那里的可怜的生物啊！我多么庆幸自己不在他们之中！我想知道这是否会是一个完整的球！他们还没有开始跳舞。我不会一直在那里。偶尔有一个属于自己的夜晚真是令人愉快。我敢说这不会是一个很好的球。我知道米切尔一家不会在那里。我确信我很同情每个人。但我敢说，莫兰先生，您渴望这样做，不是吗？我相信你会的。好吧，祈祷不要让这里的任何人限制你。我敢说，没有你，我们也能做得很好；但你们却认为自己有这样的后果。

Catherine could almost have accused Isabella of being wanting in tenderness towards herself and her sorrows, so very little did they appear to dwell on her mind, and so very inadequate was the comfort she offered. ‘Do not be so dull, my dearest creature,’ she whispered. ‘You will quite break my heart. It was amazingly shocking, to be sure; but the Tilneys were entirely to blame. Why were not they more punctual? It was dirty, indeed, but what did that signify? I am sure John and I should not have minded it. I never mind going through anything, where a friend is concerned; that is my disposition, and John is just the same; he has amazing strong feelings. Good heavens! What a delightful hand you have got! Kings, I vow! I never was so happy in my life! I would fifty times rather you should have them than myself.’
凯瑟琳几乎可以指责伊莎贝拉对自己和她的悲伤缺乏温柔，所以这些似乎很少停留在她的脑海里，她所提供的安慰也非常不足。 “别这么迟钝，我最亲爱的生物，”她低声说道。 ‘你会伤透我的心的。诚然，这确实令人震惊。但蒂尔尼一家应该承担全部责任。他们为什么不更准时呢？确实很脏，但这意味着什么？我确信约翰和我不应该介意。与朋友有关的事情，我从来不介意；这就是我的性格，约翰也是如此。他有惊人的强烈感情。我的妈呀！你的手多么令人愉快啊！诸王，我发誓！我一生中从未如此快乐过！我五十次宁愿你拥有它们，也不愿拥有我自己。

And now I may dismiss my heroine to the sleepless couch, which is the true heroine’s portion; to a pillow strewed with thorns and wet with tears. And lucky may she think herself, if she get another good night’s rest in the course of the next three months.
现在我可以把我的女主角打发到不眠的沙发上，这是真正的女主角的部分；到布满荆棘、被泪水浸湿的枕头。如果她在接下来的三个月内能再睡个好觉，她会认为自己很幸运。

Chapter 12
第12章

‘Mrs. Allen,’ said Catherine the next morning, ‘will there be any harm in my calling on Miss Tilney today? I shall not be easy till I have explained everything.’
'太太。艾伦，”第二天早上凯瑟琳说道，“我今天去拜访蒂尔尼小姐会有什么坏处吗？在我解释完一切之前，我不会那么容易。

‘Go, by all means, my dear; only put on a white gown; Miss Tilney always wears white.’
“无论如何，亲爱的，走吧；只穿上一件白袍；蒂尔尼小姐总是穿白色的衣服。

Catherine cheerfully complied, and being properly equipped, was more impatient than ever to be at the pump-room, that she might inform herself of General Tilneys lodgings, for though she believed they were in Milsom Street, she was not certain of the house, and Mrs. Allen’s wavering convictions only made it more doubtful. To Milsom Street she was directed, and having made herself perfect in the number, hastened away with eager steps and a beating heart to pay her visit, explain her conduct, and be forgiven; tripping lightly through the church-yard, and resolutely turning away her eyes, that she might not be obliged to see her beloved Isabella and her dear family, who, she had reason to believe, were in a shop hard by. She reached the house without any impediment, looked at the number, knocked at the door, and inquired for Miss Tilney. The man believed Miss Tilney to be at home, but was not quite certain. Would she be pleased to send up her name? She gave her card. In a few minutes the servant returned, and with a look which did not quite confirm his words, said he had been mistaken, for that Miss Tilney was walked out. Catherine, with a blush of mortification, left the house. She felt almost persuaded that Miss Tilney was at home, and too much offended to admit her; and as she retired down the street, could not withhold one glance at the drawing-room windows, in expectation of seeing her there, but no one appeared at them. At the bottom of the street, however, she looked back again, and then, not at a window, but issuing from the door, she saw Miss Tilney herself. She was followed by a gentleman, whom Catherine believed to be her father, and they turned up towards Edgar’s Buildings. Catherine, in deep mortification, proceeded on her way. She could almost be angry herself at such angry incivility; but she checked the resentful sensation; she remembered her own ignorance. She knew not how such an offence as hers might be classed by the laws of worldly politeness, to what a degree of unforgivingness it might with propriety lead, nor to what rigours of rudeness in return it might justly make her amenable.
凯瑟琳高兴地答应了，装备齐全，比以往任何时候都更不耐烦去泵房，以便她可以了解蒂尔尼将军的住处，因为虽然她相信他们在米尔瑟姆街，但她不确定那所房子，艾伦夫人摇摆不定的信念只会让人更加怀疑。她被指引到米尔瑟姆街，在人数上做到了完美，便以急切的步伐和一颗跳动的心匆匆走开，去拜访她，解释她的行为，并得到原谅；但她的行为却是错误的。她轻轻地穿过教堂墓地，坚决地转开眼睛，这样她就不必看到她心爱的伊莎贝拉和她亲爱的家人了，她有理由相信，他们就在附近的一家商店里。她毫无阻碍地到达了房子，看了看号码，敲了敲门，询问蒂尔尼小姐的情况。该男子相信蒂尔尼小姐在家，但不太确定。她会乐意将她的名字寄出吗？她给了她的名片。几分钟后，仆人回来了，他的表情不太证实他的话，说他弄错了，因为蒂尔尼小姐被走了出去。凯瑟琳羞愧地红了脸，离开了家。她几乎确信蒂尔尼小姐在家，但她很生气，拒绝让她进来。当她沿街退去时，忍不住看了一眼客厅的窗户，期待在那里见到她，但没有人出现。然而，到了街道的尽头，她又回头看了一眼，然后，她看到的不是窗户，而是从门口，看到了蒂尔尼小姐本人。她后面跟着一位绅士，凯瑟琳相信他是她的父亲，他们朝埃德加大厦走去。凯瑟琳带着深深的屈辱继续上路。 对于这种愤怒的无礼行为，她自己都快要生气了。但她抑制住了那种怨恨的感觉。她想起了自己的无知。她不知道，按照世俗的礼貌法则，她的这种冒犯行为会被如何归类，不知道在礼节性的情况下，这种冒犯行为会导致何种程度的不宽容，也不知道，这种冒犯行为会导致她受到何种程度的粗鲁对待，才合理地让她顺从。

Dejected and humbled, she had even some thoughts of not going with the others to the theatre that night; but it must be confessed that they were not of long continuance, for she soon recollected, in the first place, that she was without any excuse for staying at home; and, in the second, that it was a play she wanted very much to see. To the theatre accordingly they all went; no Tilneys appeared to plague or please her; she feared that, amongst the many perfections of the family, a fondness for plays was not to be ranked; but perhaps it was because they were habituated to the finer performances of the London stage, which she knew, on Isabella’s authority, rendered everything else of the kind ‘quite horrid.’ She was not deceived in her own expectation of pleasure; the comedy so well suspended her care that no one, observing her during the first four acts, would have supposed she had any wretchedness about her. On the beginning of the fifth, however, the sudden view of Mr. Henry Tilney and his father, joining a party in the opposite box, recalled her to anxiety and distress. The stage could no longer excite genuine merriment — no longer keep her whole attention. Every other look upon an average was directed towards the opposite box; and, for the space of two entire scenes, did she thus watch Henry Tilney, without being once able to catch his eye. No longer could he be suspected of indifference for a play; his notice was never withdrawn from the stage during two whole scenes. At length, however, he did look towards her, and he bowed — but such a bow! No smile, no continued observance attended it; his eyes were immediately returned to their former direction. Catherine was restlessly miserable; she could almost have run round to the box in which he sat and forced him to hear her explanation. Feelings rather natural than heroic possessed her; instead of considering her own dignity injured by this ready condemnation — instead of proudly resolving, in conscious innocence, to show her resentment towards him who could harbour a doubt of it, to leave to him all the trouble of seeking an explanation, and to enlighten him on the past only by avoiding his sight, or flirting with somebody else — she took to herself all the shame of misconduct, or at least of its appearance, and was only eager for an opportunity of explaining its cause.
沮丧和谦虚的她甚至有些想当晚不跟其他人一起去看戏了。但必须承认，他们并没有持续太久，因为她很快就想起，首先，她没有任何理由呆在家里；第二，这是她非常想看的戏剧。于是他们就都去了剧院。没有蒂尔尼家族的人会困扰或取悦她；她担心，在这个家庭的众多完美之中，对戏剧的喜爱是不被重视的。但也许是因为他们习惯了伦敦舞台上的精彩表演，她知道，根据伊莎贝拉的权威，其他一切都“相当可怕”。这部喜剧很好地悬置了她的忧虑，以至于在前四幕中观察她的人都不会认为她有任何不幸。然而，第五月初，突然看到亨利·蒂尔尼先生和他的父亲在对面包厢参加聚会，这让她想起了焦虑和苦恼。舞台再也无法激发真正的欢乐——不再吸引她的全部注意力。每一次对平均值的观察都指向对面的盒子；在整整两个场景的时间里，她一直注视着亨利·蒂尔尼，却一次也没有引起他的注意。再也不能让人怀疑他对戏剧漠不关心了；在整个两个场景中，他的注意力从未从舞台上消失。然而，最后他确实看向了她，然后鞠了个躬——不过是多么大的鞠躬啊！没有微笑，也没有持续的遵守；他的目光立刻又回到了原来的方向。 凯瑟琳感到焦躁不安，痛苦不堪。她几乎可以跑到他坐的包厢前，强迫他听她的解释。她的感情是自然的，而不是英雄的。而不是考虑到她自己的尊严因这种现成的谴责而受到伤害——而不是在自觉天真的情况下自豪地解决，向可能对此表示怀疑的他表达她的怨恨，把寻求解释的所有麻烦留给他，并启发他她只能通过避开他的视线或与其他人调情来了解他的过去——她把所有不当行为的耻辱，或者至少是其外表的耻辱，只渴望有机会解释其原因。

The play concluded — the curtain fell — Henry Tilney was no longer to be seen where he had hitherto sat, but his father remained, and perhaps he might be now coming round to their box. She was right; in a few minutes he appeared, and, making his way through the then thinning rows, spoke with like calm politeness to Mrs. Allen and her friend. Not with such calmness was he answered by the latter: ‘Oh! Mr. Tilney, I have been quite wild to speak to you, and make my apologies. You must have thought me so rude; but indeed it was not my own fault, was it, Mrs. Allen? Did not they tell me that Mr. Tilney and his sister were gone out in a phaeton together? And then what could I do? But I had ten thousand times rather have been with you; now had not I, Mrs. Allen?’
戏剧结束了——大幕落下——亨利·蒂尔尼以前坐的地方再也看不见了，但他的父亲仍然存在，也许他现在可能正在绕到他们的包厢里。她是对的;几分钟后，他出现了，穿过当时稀疏的行列，以同样平静的礼貌向艾伦夫人和她的朋友说话。后者却没有如此平静地回答他：“哦！蒂尔尼先生，我非常急于与您交谈并向您道歉。你一定觉得我很粗鲁；但这确实不是我自己的错，是吗，艾伦太太？他们不是告诉我蒂尔尼先生和他妹妹一起乘一辆四轮马车出去了吗？那我能做什么呢？但我宁愿和你在一起一万次；艾伦夫人，我现在不是吗？

‘My dear, you tumble my gown,’ was Mrs. Allen’s reply.
“亲爱的，你弄翻了我的礼服。”艾伦夫人回答道。

Her assurance, however, standing sole as it did, was not thrown away; it brought a more cordial, more natural smile into his countenance, and he replied in a tone which retained only a little affected reserve: ‘We were much obliged to you at any rate for wishing us a pleasant walk after our passing you in Argyle Street: you were so kind as to look back on purpose.’
然而，她的保证虽然是唯一的，但并没有被抛弃。这让他的脸上露出了更亲切、更自然的微笑，他用一种只保留了一点做作的保留的语气回答道：“无论如何，我们非常感谢你，在我们在亚皆老街经过你之后，希望我们能愉快地散步。” ：你真好心，故意回头看。

‘But indeed I did not wish you a pleasant walk; I never thought of such a thing; but I begged Mr. Thorpe so earnestly to stop; I called out to him as soon as ever I saw you; now, Mrs. Allen, did not — Oh! You were not there; but indeed I did; and, if Mr. Thorpe would only have stopped, I would have jumped out and run after you.’
“但事实上，我并不希望你能愉快地散步；我从来没有想过这样的事；但我恳求索普先生停下来。我一看到你就喊他；现在，艾伦夫人，没有——哦！你当时不在那里;但我确实做到了；而且，如果索普先生停下来，我就会跳出来追你。

Is there a Henry in the world who could be insensible to such a declaration? Henry Tilney at least was not. With a yet sweeter smile, he said everything that need be said of his sister’s concern, regret, and dependence on Catherine’s honour. ‘Oh! Do not say Miss Tilney was not angry,’ cried Catherine, ‘because I know she was; for she would not see me this morning when I called; I saw her walk out of the house the next minute after my leaving it; I was hurt, but I was not affronted. Perhaps you did not know I had been there.’
世界上还有哪个亨利能够对这样的声明无动于衷呢？至少亨利·蒂尔尼不是。他带着更加甜蜜的微笑，说出了他妹妹的关心、遗憾和对凯瑟琳名誉的依赖所需要说的一切。 '哦！不要说蒂尔尼小姐不生气，”凯瑟琳喊道，“因为我知道她生气了；因为今天早上我打电话来时她没有见到我。我离开后的下一分钟我就看到她走出了房子；我很受伤，但我并没有受到冒犯。也许你不知道我去过那里。

‘I was not within at the time; but I heard of it from Eleanor, and she has been wishing ever since to see you, to explain the reason of such incivility; but perhaps I can do it as well. It was nothing more than that my father — they were just preparing to walk out, and he being hurried for time, and not caring to have it put off — made a point of her being denied. That was all, I do assure you. She was very much vexed, and meant to make her apology as soon as possible.’
“当时我不在里面；但我从埃莉诺那里听说了这件事，从那时起她就一直希望见到你，向你解释这种不礼貌的原因；但也许我也能做到。无非是我父亲——他们正准备出去，他赶时间，不想拖延——特意拒绝了她。仅此而已，我向你保证。她非常恼火，想尽快道歉。

Catherine’s mind was greatly eased by this information, yet a something of solicitude remained, from which sprang the following question, thoroughly artless in itself, though rather distressing to the gentleman: ‘But, Mr. Tilney, why were you less generous than your sister? If she felt such confidence in my good intentions, and could suppose it to be only a mistake, why should you be so ready to take offence?’
听到这个消息，凯瑟琳的心情大大放松了，但仍有一丝担忧，由此产生了以下问题，本身完全天真，尽管让这位绅士感到相当痛苦：“但是，蒂尔尼先生，为什么你没有你姐姐那么慷慨” ？如果她对我的善意如此有信心，并且认为这只是一个错误，那么你为什么要这么准备生气呢？

‘Me! I take offence!’
'我！我很生气！

‘Nay, I am sure by your look, when you came into the box, you were angry.’
“不，从你的表情来看，我确信当你走进包厢时，你很生气。”

‘I angry! I could have no right.’
'我生气！我没有权利。

‘Well, nobody would have thought you had no right who saw your face.’ He replied by asking her to make room for him, and talking of the play.
“好吧，没有人会认为你没有权利看到你的脸。”他回答说，请她为他腾出空间，并谈论了这部戏。

He remained with them some time, and was only too agreeable for Catherine to be contented when he went away. Before they parted, however, it was agreed that the projected walk should be taken as soon as possible; and, setting aside the misery of his quitting their box, she was, upon the whole, left one of the happiest creatures in the world.
他和他们待了一段时间，当他离开时，凯瑟琳很高兴。然而，在分开之前，他们商定应该尽快进行计划中的步行；抛开他离开包厢的痛苦不谈，总的来说，她是世界上最幸福的生物之一。

While talking to each other, she had observed with some surprise that John Thorpe, who was never in the same part of the house for ten minutes together, was engaged in conversation with General Tilney; and she felt something more than surprise when she thought she could perceive herself the object of their attention and discourse. What could they have to say of her? She feared General Tilney did not like her appearance: she found it was implied in his preventing her admittance to his daughter, rather than postpone his own walk a few minutes. ‘How came Mr. Thorpe to know your father?’ was her anxious inquiry, as she pointed them out to her companion. He knew nothing about it; but his father, like every military man, had a very large acquaintance.
在互相交谈时，她有些惊讶地发现约翰·索普（John Thorpe）从来没有在房子的同一地方呆过十分钟，却正在与蒂尔尼将军交谈；当她认为自己能察觉到自己成为他们关注和谈论的对象时，她感到的不仅仅是惊讶。他们能对她说些什么呢？她担心蒂尔尼将军不喜欢她的外表：她发现这暗示着他阻止她进入他的女儿，而不是推迟他自己的步行几分钟。 “索普先生怎么会认识你的父亲？”当她把它们指给她的同伴时，她焦急地问道。他对此一无所知。但他的父亲和所有军人一样，有很多熟人。

When the entertainment was over, Thorpe came to assist them in getting out. Catherine was the immediate object of his gallantry; and, while they waited in the lobby for a chair, he prevented the inquiry which had travelled from her heart almost to the tip of her tongue, by asking, in a consequential manner, whether she had seen him talking with General Tilney: ‘He is a fine old fellow, upon my soul! Stout, active — looks as young as his son. I have a great regard for him, I assure you: a gentleman-like, good sort of fellow as ever lived.’
娱乐活动结束后，索普过来协助他们出去。凯瑟琳是他献殷勤的直接对象。当他们在大厅里等待椅子时，他以一种相应的方式询问她是否看到他与蒂尔尼将军谈话，从而阻止了她几乎从心底传到舌尖的询问：“他是一位好老头，我的灵魂！粗壮、活跃——看起来和他儿子一样年轻。我向你保证，我非常尊敬他：他是一个一如既往的绅士风度的好人。

‘But how came you to know him?’
“但是你是怎么认识他的呢？”

‘Know him! There are few people much about town that I do not know. I have met him forever at the Bedford; and I knew his face again today the moment he came into the billiard-room. One of the best players we have, by the by; and we had a little touch together, though I was almost afraid of him at first: the odds were five to four against me; and, if I had not made one of the cleanest strokes that perhaps ever was made in this world — I took his ball exactly — but I could not make you understand it without a table; however, I did beat him. A very fine fellow; as rich as a Jew. I should like to dine with him; I dare say he gives famous dinners. But what do you think we have been talking of? You. Yes, by heavens! And the general thinks you the finest girl in Bath.’
'认识他！镇上几乎没有我不认识的人。我在贝德福德酒店永远见到了他；今天，当他走进台球室时，我又认出了他的脸。顺便说一句，他是我们最好的球员之一；我们之间有过一些接触，尽管一开始我几乎有点害怕他：我的胜算是五比四。而且，如果我没有做出这个世界上可能有史以来最干净的击球之一——我准确地接住了他的球——但如果没有桌子，我无法让你理解它;然而，我确实打败了他。一个非常好的人；像犹太人一样富有。我想和他一起吃饭；我敢说他举办的晚宴很有名。但你认为我们一直在谈论什么？你。是的，天哪！将军认为你是巴斯最好的女孩。”

‘Oh! Nonsense! How can you say so?’
'哦！废话！你怎么能这么说呢？

‘And what do you think I said?’ — lowering his voice — ‘well done, general, said I; I am quite of your mind.’
“你认为我说了什么？”——压低了声音——“干得好，将军，我说；我完全同意你的想法。

Here Catherine, who was much less gratified by his admiration than by General Tilney’s, was not sorry to be called away by Mr. Allen. Thorpe, however, would see her to her chair, and, till she entered it, continued the same kind of delicate flattery, in spite of her entreating him to have done.
在这里，凯瑟琳对蒂尔尼将军的钦佩远不如对他的钦佩感到满意，但她对被艾伦先生叫走并不感到遗憾。然而，索普会送她到椅子上，直到她进入座位为止，尽管她恳求他这样做，但索普仍继续进行同样微妙的奉承。

That General Tilney, instead of disliking, should admire her, was very delightful; and she joyfully thought that there was not one of the family whom she need now fear to meet. The evening had done more, much more, for her than could have been expected.
蒂尔尼将军非但没有讨厌她，反而钦佩她，这真是令人高兴。她高兴地想到，现在她不需要害怕见到家里的任何一个人了。今晚对她来说，所做的一切超出了她的预期。

Chapter 13
第13章

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday have now passed in review before the reader; the events of each day, its hopes and fears, mortifications and pleasures, have been separately stated, and the pangs of Sunday only now remain to be described, and close the week. The Clifton scheme had been deferred, not relinquished, and on the afternoon’s crescent of this day, it was brought forward again. In a private consultation between Isabella and James, the former of whom had particularly set her heart upon going, and the latter no less anxiously placed his upon pleasing her, it was agreed that, provided the weather were fair, the party should take place on the following morning; and they were to set off very early, in order to be at home in good time. The affair thus determined, and Thorpe’s approbation secured, Catherine only remained to be apprised of it. She had left them for a few minutes to speak to Miss Tilney. In that interval the plan was completed, and as soon as she came again, her agreement was demanded; but instead of the gay acquiescence expected by Isabella, Catherine looked grave, was very sorry, but could not go. The engagement which ought to have kept her from joining in the former attempt would make it impossible for her to accompany them now. She had that moment settled with Miss Tilney to take their proposed walk tomorrow; it was quite determined, and she would not, upon any account, retract. But that she must and should retract was instantly the eager cry of both the Thorpes; they must go to Clifton tomorrow, they would not go without her, it would be nothing to put off a mere walk for one day longer, and they would not hear of a refusal. Catherine was distressed, but not subdued. ‘Do not urge me, Isabella. I am engaged to Miss Tilney. I cannot go.’ This availed nothing. The same arguments assailed her again; she must go, she should go, and they would not hear of a refusal. ‘It would be so easy to tell Miss Tilney that you had just been reminded of a prior engagement, and must only beg to put off the walk till Tuesday.’
星期一、星期二、星期三、星期四、星期五和星期六现在已通过读者的审查；每天发生的事情，希望和恐惧，屈辱和快乐，都已分别陈述，只有周日的痛苦才需要描述，并结束这一周。克利夫顿计划被推迟，而不是放弃，在今天下午的新月，它再次被提前。伊莎贝拉和詹姆斯私下协商，前者特别想去，而后者也同样焦急地希望取悦她，双方同意，如果天气晴朗，聚会应在第二天早上；他们要很早就出发，以便及时回家。事情就这样确定了，索普也得到了认可，只剩下凯瑟琳知道这件事了。她离开了他们几分钟，去和蒂尔尼小姐说话。在那段时间里，计划完成了，她一回来，就要求她同意。但凯瑟琳并没有像伊莎贝拉所期望的那样表现出愉快的默许，而是表情严肃，非常抱歉，但不能去。本来应该阻止她参加之前的尝试的订婚，现在却让她不可能陪伴他们了。她和蒂尔尼小姐商量好明天去散步。事情已经决定了，她无论如何也不会反悔。但索普夫妇立即急切地喊道，她必须而且应该撤回。他们明天必须去克利夫顿，没有她就不会去，仅仅推迟一天散步也没什么，而且他们不会听到拒绝的消息。凯瑟琳很痛苦，但并没有屈服。 “别催我，伊莎贝拉。我和蒂尔尼小姐订婚了。 我不能去。’这没有任何效果。同样的论点再次袭击了她。她必须走，她应该走，他们不会听到拒绝的声音。 “很容易告诉蒂尔尼小姐，你刚刚被提醒之前有约会，只能请求推迟到周二才去散步。”’

‘No, it would not be easy. I could not do it. There has been no prior engagement.’ But Isabella became only more and more urgent, calling on her in the most affectionate manner, addressing her by the most endearing names. She was sure her dearest, sweetest Catherine would not seriously refuse such a trifling request to a friend who loved her so dearly. She knew her beloved Catherine to have so feeling a heart, so sweet a temper, to be so easily persuaded by those she loved. But all in vain; Catherine felt herself to be in the right, and though pained by such tender, such flattering supplication, could not allow it to influence her. Isabella then tried another method. She reproached her with having more affection for Miss Tilney, though she had known her so little a while, than for her best and oldest friends, with being grown cold and indifferent, in short, towards herself. ‘I cannot help being jealous, Catherine, when I see myself slighted for strangers, I, who love you so excessively! When once my affections are placed, it is not in the power of anything to change them. But I believe my feelings are stronger than anybody’s; I am sure they are too strong for my own peace; and to see myself supplanted in your friendship by strangers does cut me to the quick, I own. These Tilneys seem to swallow up everything else.’
‘不，这并不容易。我做不到。没有事先订婚。”但伊莎贝拉变得越来越急切，以最深情的方式呼唤她，用最可爱的名字称呼她。她确信她最亲爱、最可爱的凯瑟琳不会认真拒绝对一个如此深爱她的朋友如此微不足道的请求。她知道她心爱的凯瑟琳有一颗如此感性的心，如此甜蜜的脾气，如此容易被她所爱的人说服。但一切都是徒劳；凯瑟琳觉得自己是对的，虽然因如此温柔、如此谄媚的恳求而感到痛苦，但她不能让它影响她。伊莎贝拉随后尝试了另一种方法。她责备她对蒂尔尼小姐的感情比对她最好和最老的朋友的感情还要多，尽管她认识蒂尔尼小姐的时间还很短，简而言之，她对自己变得冷漠和冷漠。 “凯瑟琳，当我看到自己因为陌生人而受到轻视时，我情不自禁地感到嫉妒，因为我如此爱你！”当我的感情一旦确定，就没有任何力量可以改变它们。但我相信我的感受比任何人都强烈；我确信它们太强大了，无法让我安宁；我承认，看到自己在你们的友谊中被陌生人取代，确实让我很受伤。这些蒂尔尼家族似乎吞噬了其他一切。

Catherine thought this reproach equally strange and unkind. Was it the part of a friend thus to expose her feelings to the notice of others? Isabella appeared to her ungenerous and selfish, regardless of everything but her own gratification. These painful ideas crossed her mind, though she said nothing. Isabella, in the meanwhile, had applied her handkerchief to her eyes; and Morland, miserable at such a sight, could not help saying, ‘Nay, Catherine. I think you cannot stand out any longer now. The sacrifice is not much; and to oblige such a friend — I shall think you quite unkind, if you still refuse.’
凯瑟琳认为这种责备同样奇怪和不友善。难道是朋友的本分让别人注意到她的感受吗？伊莎贝拉在她看来既吝啬又自私，除了自己的满足之外什么都不顾。这些痛苦的想法闪过她的脑海，但她什么也没说。与此同时，伊莎贝拉用手帕捂住了眼睛。莫兰看到这样的景象，感到很痛苦，忍不住说：“不，凯瑟琳。”我想你现在已经不能再脱颖而出了。牺牲并不多；并帮助这样的朋友——如果你仍然拒绝的话，我会认为你很不友善。

This was the first time of her brother’s openly siding against her, and anxious to avoid his displeasure, she proposed a compromise. If they would only put off their scheme till Tuesday, which they might easily do, as it depended only on themselves, she could go with them, and everybody might then be satisfied. But ‘No, no, no!’ was the immediate answer; ‘that could not be, for Thorpe did not know that he might not go to town on Tuesday.’ Catherine was sorry, but could do no more; and a short silence ensued, which was broken by Isabella, who in a voice of cold resentment said, ‘Very well, then there is an end of the party. If Catherine does not go, I cannot. I cannot be the only woman. I would not, upon any account in the world, do so improper a thing.’
这是她哥哥第一次公开站在她一边，为了避免他的不满，她提出了妥协。如果他们把计划推迟到星期二，他们很容易做到，因为这只取决于他们自己，那么她就可以和他们一起去，然后每个人都会感到满意。但是，“不，不，不！”是立即的答案。 “那不可能，因为索普不知道他周二可能不会进城。”凯瑟琳很抱歉，但也无能为力。随后是短暂的沉默，伊莎贝拉打破了沉默，她冷冷怨恨地说：“好吧，那么聚会就结束了。”如果凯瑟琳不去，我就不能去。我不能是唯一的女人。不管怎样，我都不会做这种不恰当的事情。

‘Catherine, you must go,’ said James.
“凯瑟琳，你必须走，”詹姆斯说。

‘But why cannot Mr. Thorpe drive one of his other sisters? I dare say either of them would like to go.’
“但是为什么索普先生不能开车送他的其他姐妹之一呢？”我敢说他们中的任何一个都想去。

‘Thank ye,’ cried Thorpe, ‘but I did not come to Bath to drive my sisters about, and look like a fool. No, if you do not go, d — me if I do. I only go for the sake of driving you.’
“谢谢你们，”索普喊道，“但我来巴斯并不是为了载着我的姐妹们到处乱逛，让我看起来像个傻瓜。不，如果你不去，如果我去的话，那就是我。我只是为了载你而去。

‘That is a compliment which gives me no pleasure.’ But her words were lost on Thorpe, who had turned abruptly away.
“这种恭维并没有给我带来任何乐趣。”但索普没有听懂她的话，他突然转过身去。

The three others still continued together, walking in a most uncomfortable manner to poor Catherine; sometimes not a word was said, sometimes she was again attacked with supplications or reproaches, and her arm was still linked within Isabella’s, though their hearts were at war. At one moment she was softened, at another irritated; always distressed, but always steady.
另外三个人仍然一起继续前进，以一种极其不舒服的方式走向可怜的凯瑟琳。有时一言不发，有时她再次受到恳求或责备的攻击，尽管他们的心在交战，但她的手臂仍然挽在伊莎贝拉的手臂上。她一会儿心软，一会儿又恼怒。总是苦恼，却又始终坚定。

‘I did not think you had been so obstinate, Catherine,’ said James; ‘you were not used to be so hard to persuade; you once were the kindest, best-tempered of my sisters.’
“我没想到你这么固执，凯瑟琳，”詹姆斯说。 ‘你不习惯这么难说服；你曾经是我姐妹中最善良、脾气最好的一个。

‘I hope I am not less so now,’ she replied, very feelingly; ‘but indeed I cannot go. If I am wrong, I am doing what I believe to be right.’
“我希望我现在也同样如此，”她深情地回答道。 ‘但我确实不能去。如果我错了，我也会做我认为正确的事情。”

‘I suspect,’ said Isabella, in a low voice, ‘there is no great struggle.’
“我怀疑，”伊莎贝拉低声说道，“没有什么伟大的斗争。”

Catherine’s heart swelled; she drew away her arm, and Isabella made no opposition. Thus passed a long ten minutes, till they were again joined by Thorpe, who, coming to them with a gayer look, said, ‘Well, I have settled the matter, and now we may all go tomorrow with a safe conscience. I have been to Miss Tilney, and made your excuses.’
凯瑟琳的心膨胀了。她收回手臂，伊莎贝拉也没有反抗。就这样过了漫长的十分钟，索普再次加入了他们，索普神色更加愉快地走到他们面前，说道：“好了，我已经把事情解决了，现在我们明天就可以安心出发了。”我去过蒂尔尼小姐那里，并为你找了借口。

‘You have not!’ cried Catherine.
“你没有！”凯瑟琳喊道。

‘I have, upon my soul. Left her this moment. Told her you had sent me to say that, having just recollected a prior engagement of going to Clifton with us tomorrow, you could not have the pleasure of walking with her till Tuesday. She said very well, Tuesday was just as convenient to her; so there is an end of all our difficulties. A pretty good thought of mine — hey?’
“我有，我的灵魂。”这一刻离开了她。告诉她你派我来告诉她，你刚刚想起明天和我们一起去克利夫顿的事先约定，你不能有幸和她一起散步直到星期二。她说得好，星期二对她来说也方便；这样我们所有的困难就都结束了。我的想法非常好——嘿？

Isabella’s countenance was once more all smiles and good humour, and James too looked happy again.
伊莎贝拉的脸上再次露出了笑容和幽默感，詹姆斯也看起来又很高兴。

‘A most heavenly thought indeed! Now, my sweet Catherine, all our distresses are over; you are honourably acquitted, and we shall have a most delightful party.’
‘这确实是一个最神圣的想法！现在，我亲爱的凯瑟琳，我们所有的痛苦都结束了；你被光荣地无罪释放，我们将举办一个最愉快的聚会。”

‘This will not do,’ said Catherine; ‘I cannot submit to this. I must run after Miss Tilney directly and set her right.’
“这样不行，”凯瑟琳说。 ‘我不能屈服于此。我必须直接追上蒂尔尼小姐并纠正她的错误。

Isabella, however, caught hold of one hand, Thorpe of the other, and remonstrances poured in from all three. Even James was quite angry. When everything was settled, when Miss Tilney herself said that Tuesday would suit her as well, it was quite ridiculous, quite absurd, to make any further objection.
然而，伊莎贝拉握住了一只手，索普握住了另一只手，三人纷纷表示抗议。就连詹姆斯也很生气。当一切都解决之后，当蒂尔尼小姐自己说星期二也适合她时，再提出任何反对意见都是非常可笑、非常荒唐的。

‘I do not care. Mr. Thorpe had no business to invent any such message. If I had thought it right to put it off, I could have spoken to Miss Tilney myself. This is only doing it in a ruder way; and how do I know that Mr. Thorpe has — He may be mistaken again perhaps; he led me into one act of rudeness by his mistake on Friday. Let me go, Mr. Thorpe; Isabella, do not hold me.’
'我不在乎。索普先生无权发明任何此类信息。如果我认为推迟是正确的，我可以亲自和蒂尔尼小姐谈谈。这只是一种比较粗鲁的做法；我怎么知道索普先生——也许他又错了；周五他的错误导致我做出了一项无礼的行为。让我走吧，索普先生；伊莎贝拉，别抱我。

Thorpe told her it would be in vain to go after the Tilneys; they were turning the corner into Brock Street, when he had overtaken them, and were at home by this time.
索普告诉她，追捕蒂尔尼一家是徒劳的。当他们转过街角进入布罗克街时，他超越了他们，此时已经到家了。

‘Then I will go after them,’ said Catherine; ‘wherever they are I will go after them. It does not signify talking. If I could not be persuaded into doing what I thought wrong, I never will be tricked into it.’ And with these words she broke away and hurried off. Thorpe would have darted after her, but Morland withheld him. ‘Let her go, let her go, if she will go. She is as obstinate as — ‘
“那我就去追他们了，”凯瑟琳说。 ‘无论他们在哪里，我都会追随他们。这并不意味着说话。如果我不能被说服去做我认为错误的事情，我就永远不会被欺骗。”说完，她挣脱了，匆匆离开了。索普本想追上她，但莫兰阻止了他。 ‘让她走，让她走，如果她愿意的话。她固执得就像——’

Thorpe never finished the simile, for it could hardly have been a proper one.
索普没有把这个比喻说完，因为这根本不可能是一个恰当的比喻。

Away walked Catherine in great agitation, as fast as the crowd would permit her, fearful of being pursued, yet determined to persevere. As she walked, she reflected on what had passed. It was painful to her to disappoint and displease them, particularly to displease her brother; but she could not repent her resistance. Setting her own inclination apart, to have failed a second time in her engagement to Miss Tilney, to have retracted a promise voluntarily made only five minutes before, and on a false pretence too, must have been wrong. She had not been withstanding them on selfish principles alone, she had not consulted merely her own gratification; that might have been ensured in some degree by the excursion itself, by seeing Blaize Castle; no, she had attended to what was due to others, and to her own character in their opinion. Her conviction of being right, however, was not enough to restore her composure; till she had spoken to Miss Tilney she could not be at ease; and quickening her pace when she got clear of the Crescent, she almost ran over the remaining ground till she gained the top of Milsom Street. So rapid had been her movements that in spite of the Tilneys’ advantage in the outset, they were but just turning into their lodgings as she came within view of them; and the servant still remaining at the open door, she used only the ceremony of saying that she must speak with Miss Tilney that moment, and hurrying by him proceeded upstairs. Then, opening the first door before her, which happened to be the right, she immediately found herself in the drawing-room with General Tilney, his son, and daughter. Her explanation, defective only in being — from her irritation of nerves and shortness of breath — no explanation at all, was instantly given. ‘I am come in a great hurry — It was all a mistake — I never promised to go — I told them from the first I could not go. — I ran away in a great hurry to explain it. — I did not care what you thought of me. — I would not stay for the servant.’
凯瑟琳焦急地走开了，她以人群允许的最快速度走开，她害怕被追赶，但又决心坚持下去。她一边走，一边回想刚刚发生的事情。让他们失望、不高兴，尤其是让她哥哥不高兴，对她来说是痛苦的。但她无法后悔自己的反抗。抛开她自己的倾向不说，她第二次未能与蒂尔尼小姐订婚，又撤回了五分钟前自愿做出的承诺，而且还是以虚假的借口，这肯定是错误的。她并不是仅仅出于自私的原则来忍受他们，她也不仅仅是为了自己的满足；她只是为了满足自己的需要。游览本身，参观布莱兹城堡，在某种程度上可能保证了这一点；不，她关注的是别人应得的，以及他们认为她自己的性格。然而，她坚信自己的观点是正确的，但这并不足以让她恢复镇定。在与蒂尔尼小姐交谈之前，她一直无法放松。当她离开新月街时，她加快了脚步，几乎跑过了剩下的地面，直到到达米尔瑟姆街的顶端。她的动作如此之快，尽管蒂尔尼一家一开始就占了优势，但当她进入他们的视野时，他们才刚刚转向他们的住处；仆人仍然站在敞开的门前，她只用了一个仪式，表示她必须立即与蒂尔尼小姐交谈，然后匆匆经过他就上楼了。然后，打开她面前的第一扇门（恰好是右边的门），她立即发现自己和蒂尔尼将军以及他的儿子和女儿一起进入了客厅。她的解释是有缺陷的——因为她的神经过敏和呼吸急促——根本没有解释，但她立即给出了解释。 “我来得很匆忙——这都是一个错误——我从未答应去——我从一开始就告诉他们我不能去。 ——我急忙跑去解释。 ——我不在乎你对我的看法。 ——我不会为仆人留下来。’

The business, however, though not perfectly elucidated by this speech, soon ceased to be a puzzle. Catherine found that John Thorpe had given the message; and Miss Tilney had no scruple in owning herself greatly surprised by it. But whether her brother had still exceeded her in resentment, Catherine, though she instinctively addressed herself as much to one as to the other in her vindication, had no means of knowing. Whatever might have been felt before her arrival, her eager declarations immediately made every look and sentence as friendly as she could desire.
然而，尽管这次演讲没有完全阐明这一问题，但很快就不再是一个谜了。凯瑟琳发现约翰·索普已经传达了这个信息；蒂尔尼小姐毫不犹豫地承认自己对此感到非常惊讶。但是，凯瑟琳本能地向其中一人诉说自己的平反，但她的哥哥的怨恨是否仍然超过了她，却无从得知。无论她到来之前的感受是什么，她热切的宣言立即使每一个眼神和每句话都变得像她所希望的那样友好。

The affair thus happily settled, she was introduced by Miss Tilney to her father, and received by him with such ready, such solicitous politeness as recalled Thorpe’s information to her mind, and made her think with pleasure that he might be sometimes depended on. To such anxious attention was the general’s civility carried, that not aware of her extraordinary swiftness in entering the house, he was quite angry with the servant whose neglect had reduced her to open the door of the apartment herself. ‘What did William mean by it? He should make a point of inquiring into the matter.’ And if Catherine had not most warmly asserted his innocence, it seemed likely that William would lose the favour of his master forever, if not his place, by her rapidity.
事情就这样愉快地解决了，蒂尔尼小姐把她介绍给她的父亲，他热情周到地接待了她，让她想起了索普的信息，让她高兴地想到他有时可能是值得依赖的。将军的礼貌引起了如此焦急的注意，以至于他没有意识到她进屋的速度异常迅速，他对仆人很生气，因为仆人的疏忽使她不得不亲自打开公寓的门。 “威廉这话是什么意思？如果凯瑟琳没有极力地坚称他的清白，威廉似乎会因为她的迅速而永远失去他主人的青睐，甚至失去他的位置。

After sitting with them a quarter of an hour, she rose to take leave, and was then most agreeably surprised by General Tilney’s asking her if she would do his daughter the honour of dining and spending the rest of the day with her. Miss Tilney added her own wishes. Catherine was greatly obliged; but it was quite out of her power. Mr. and Mrs. Allen would expect her back every moment. The general declared he could say no more; the claims of Mr. and Mrs. Allen were not to be superseded; but on some other day he trusted, when longer notice could be given, they would not refuse to spare her to her friend. ‘Oh, no; Catherine was sure they would not have the least objection, and she should have great pleasure in coming.’ The general attended her himself to the street-door, saying everything gallant as they went downstairs, admiring the elasticity of her walk, which corresponded exactly with the spirit of her dancing, and making her one of the most graceful bows she had ever beheld, when they parted.
和他们一起坐了一刻钟后，她起身告辞，然后蒂尔尼将军问她是否愿意为他的女儿提供晚餐并与她共度余下的时间，这让她感到非常惊讶。蒂尔尼小姐添加了她自己的愿望。凯瑟琳非常感激。但这完全超出了她的能力范围。艾伦先生和夫人每时每刻都盼望着她回来。将军宣布他不能再说了。艾伦夫妇的主张不得被取代；但他相信，有一天，如果可以提前通知，他们不会拒绝把她交给她的朋友。 '不好了;凯瑟琳确信他们不会有丝毫反对，她应该很高兴来。”将军亲自送她到临街门口，下楼时说着一切英勇的话，钦佩她走路的弹性，这完全符合她的舞蹈精神，使她成为他们分手时见过的最优雅的鞠躬之一。

Catherine, delighted by all that had passed, proceeded gaily to Pulteney Street, walking, as she concluded, with great elasticity, though she had never thought of it before. She reached home without seeing anything more of the offended party; and now that she had been triumphant throughout, had carried her point, and was secure of her walk, she began (as the flutter of her spirits subsided) to doubt whether she had been perfectly right. A sacrifice was always noble; and if she had given way to their entreaties, she should have been spared the distressing idea of a friend displeased, a brother angry, and a scheme of great happiness to both destroyed, perhaps through her means. To ease her mind, and ascertain by the opinion of an unprejudiced person what her own conduct had really been, she took occasion to mention before Mr. Allen the half-settled scheme of her brother and the Thorpes for the following day. Mr. Allen caught at it directly. ‘Well,’ said he, ‘and do you think of going too?’
凯瑟琳对所发生的一切感到高兴，兴高采烈地走向普尔特尼街，正如她总结的那样，她走得很有弹性，尽管她以前从未想过这一点。她回到家后，再也没有看到任何被冒犯的人。既然她自始至终都取得了胜利，已经实现了自己的观点，并且对自己的道路感到放心，她开始怀疑自己是否完全正确。牺牲总是崇高的；如果她答应了他们的恳求，她就不会再想到朋友不高兴，兄弟生气，以及一个让两人都幸福的计划被毁掉的痛苦想法，也许是因为她的手段。为了放松心情，并通过一个不带偏见的人的意见来确定自己的行为到底是什么，她趁机向艾伦先生提到了她哥哥和索普斯夫妇第二天的半敲定计划。艾伦先生直接抓住了这一点。 “好吧，”他说，“你也想一起去吗？”

‘No; I had just engaged myself to walk with Miss Tilney before they told me of it; and therefore you know I could not go with them, could I?’
'不;在他们告诉我这件事之前，我刚刚约好要和蒂尔尼小姐一起散步。所以你知道我不能和他们一起去，不是吗？

‘No, certainly not; and I am glad you do not think of it. These schemes are not at all the thing. Young men and women driving about the country in open carriages! Now and then it is very well; but going to inns and public places together! It is not right; and I wonder Mrs. Thorpe should allow it. I am glad you do not think of going; I am sure Mrs. Morland would not be pleased. Mrs. Allen, are not you of my way of thinking? Do not you think these kind of projects objectionable?’
“不，当然不是；”我很高兴你没有想到这一点。这些计划根本不是问题。年轻男女乘坐敞篷马车环游全国！偶尔也很好；但一起去旅馆和公共场所！这是不对的;我不知道索普夫人是否应该允许。我很高兴你不想去；我确信莫兰夫人不会高兴。艾伦夫人，你的想法不和我一样吗？你不觉得这种项目令人反感吗？

‘Yes, very much so indeed. Open carriages are nasty things. A clean gown is not five minutes’ wear in them. You are splashed getting in and getting out; and the wind takes your hair and your bonnet in every direction. I hate an open carriage myself.’
是的，确实如此。敞篷马车是令人讨厌的东西。一件干净的长袍穿不了五分钟。进出时你会被溅得水花四溅；风将你的头发和帽子吹向各个方向。我自己讨厌敞篷马车。

‘I know you do; but that is not the question. Do not you think it has an odd appearance, if young ladies are frequently driven about in them by young men, to whom they are not even related?’
“我知道你会的；但这不是问题所在。如果年轻女士们经常被年轻男子驾驶着，而他们甚至与他们没有任何关系，您不认为这看起来很奇怪吗？

‘Yes, my dear, a very odd appearance indeed. I cannot bear to see it.’
“是的，亲爱的，确实是一个非常奇怪的外表。我不忍心看到它。

‘Dear madam,’ cried Catherine, ‘then why did not you tell me so before? I am sure if I had known it to be improper, I would not have gone with Mr. Thorpe at all; but I always hoped you would tell me, if you thought I was doing wrong.’
“亲爱的女士，”凯瑟琳喊道，“那您为什么不早告诉我呢？我确信如果我知道这是不合适的，我根本就不会和索普先生一起去。但我一直希望你能告诉我，如果你认为我做错了。

‘And so I should, my dear, you may depend on it; for as I told Mrs. Morland at parting, I would always do the best for you in my power. But one must not be over particular. Young people will be young people, as your good mother says herself. You know I wanted you, when we first came, not to buy that sprigged muslin, but you would. Young people do not like to be always thwarted.’
“所以我应该这么做，亲爱的，你可以信赖它；因为正如我临别时对莫兰太太所说的那样，我将永远尽我所能为你做最好的事情。但也不能过于挑剔。正如你的好母亲自己所说，年轻人就是年轻人。你知道，当我们第一次来的时候，我希望你不要买那件带枝条的平纹细布，但你会的。年轻人不喜欢总是受到挫败。”

‘But this was something of real consequence; and I do not think you would have found me hard to persuade.’
“但这是具有真正意义的事情；我想你不会觉得我很难说服。

‘As far as it has gone hitherto, there is no harm done,’ said Mr. Allen; ‘and I would only advise you, my dear, not to go out with Mr. Thorpe any more.’
“就目前情况而言，没有造成任何损害，”艾伦先生说。 “亲爱的，我只是建议你不要再和索普先生出去了。”

‘That is just what I was going to say,’ added his wife.
“这正是我要说的，”他的妻子补充道。

Catherine, relieved for herself, felt uneasy for Isabella, and after a moment’s thought, asked Mr. Allen whether it would not be both proper and kind in her to write to Miss Thorpe, and explain the indecorum of which she must be as insensible as herself; for she considered that Isabella might otherwise perhaps be going to Clifton the next day, in spite of what had passed. Mr. Allen, however, discouraged her from doing any such thing. ‘You had better leave her alone, my dear; she is old enough to know what she is about, and if not, has a mother to advise her. Mrs. Thorpe is too indulgent beyond a doubt; but, however, you had better not interfere. She and your brother choose to go, and you will be only getting ill will.’
凯瑟琳为自己松了口气，也为伊莎贝拉感到不安，想了一会儿，问艾伦先生，她是否应该写信给索普小姐，解释一下她对这种不礼貌的行为，她一定是麻木不仁的。她自己；因为她认为，不管发生了什么事，伊莎贝拉第二天可能会去克利夫顿。然而，艾伦先生不鼓励她做这样的事情。 “亲爱的，你最好别打扰她；她已经足够大了，知道自己在做什么，如果不知道，也有母亲给她建议。毫无疑问，索普夫人太纵容了。不过，你最好不要干涉。她和你的兄弟选择离开，你只会感到恶意。

Catherine submitted, and though sorry to think that Isabella should be doing wrong, felt greatly relieved by Mr. Allen’s approbation of her own conduct, and truly rejoiced to be preserved by his advice from the danger of falling into such an error herself. Her escape from being one of the party to Clifton was now an escape indeed; for what would the Tilneys have thought of her, if she had broken her promise to them in order to do what was wrong in itself, if she had been guilty of one breach of propriety, only to enable her to be guilty of another?
凯瑟琳屈服了，尽管她对伊莎贝拉应该做错事感到遗憾，但艾伦先生对她自己行为的认可让她大大松了口气，并且真正高兴的是他的建议使她自己免于陷入这种错误的危险。她不再是克利夫顿的一员，现在确实是一种逃避。因为，如果她为了做错事而违背了对他们的承诺，如果她犯了一项违规行为，只是为了让她犯下另一项违规行为，蒂尔尼一家会怎么看她呢？

Chapter 14
第14章

The next morning was fair, and Catherine almost expected another attack from the assembled party. With Mr. Allen to support her, she felt no dread of the event: but she would gladly be spared a contest, where victory itself was painful, and was heartily rejoiced therefore at neither seeing nor hearing anything of them. The Tilneys called for her at the appointed time; and no new difficulty arising, no sudden recollection, no unexpected summons, no impertinent intrusion to disconcert their measures, my heroine was most unnaturally able to fulfil her engagement, though it was made with the hero himself. They determined on walking round Beechen Cliff, that noble hill whose beautiful verdure and hanging coppice render it so striking an object from almost every opening in Bath.
第二天早上天气晴朗，凯瑟琳几乎预计聚集的队伍会再次发动袭击。有艾伦先生的支持，她对这件事并不感到恐惧：但她很高兴能避免一场比赛，胜利本身就是痛苦的，因此她既没有看到也没有听到他们的任何消息，感到由衷的高兴。蒂尔尼一家在约定的时间来找她。没有出现新的困难，没有突然的回忆，没有意外的召唤，没有无礼的闯入来扰乱他们的措施，我的女主人公非常不自然地能够履行她的约定，尽管这是与主人公本人订下的。他们决定绕比钦悬崖走一圈，这座高贵的山丘有着美丽的翠绿和悬垂的灌木丛，使它在巴斯的几乎每个开口处都显得如此引人注目。

‘I never look at it,’ said Catherine, as they walked along the side of the river, ‘without thinking of the south of France.’
当他们沿着河边散步时，凯瑟琳说道：“我每次看到它，都会想到法国南部。”

‘You have been abroad then?’ said Henry, a little surprised.
“那你出国了？”亨利有点惊讶地说。

‘Oh! No, I only mean what I have read about. It always puts me in mind of the country that Emily and her father travelled through, in The Mysteries of Udolpho. But you never read novels, I dare say?’
'哦！不，我只是指我读过的内容。它总是让我想起艾米丽和她父亲在《乌道夫之谜》中走过的国家。但我敢说你从来没有读过小说？

‘Why not?’
'为什么不？'

‘Because they are not clever enough for you — gentlemen read better books.’
“因为他们对你来说不够聪明——先生们读更好的书。”

‘The person, be it gentleman or lady, who has not pleasure in a good novel, must be intolerably stupid. I have read all Mrs. Radcliffe’s works, and most of them with great pleasure. The Mysteries of Udolpho, when I had once begun it, I could not lay down again; I remember finishing it in two days — my hair standing on end the whole time.’
‘无论是先生还是女士，不喜欢好小说的人，一定是愚蠢至极。我读过拉德克利夫夫人的所有作品，其中大部分作品我都读得津津有味。 《乌道夫之谜》一旦开始，我就再也无法放下；我记得两天后就完成了——我一直毛骨悚然。”

‘Yes,’ added Miss Tilney, ‘and I remember that you undertook to read it aloud to me, and that when I was called away for only five minutes to answer a note, instead of waiting for me, you took the volume into the Hermitage Walk, and I was obliged to stay till you had finished it.’
“是的，”蒂尔尼小姐补充道，“我记得你答应大声朗读给我听，当我被叫去只呆五分钟去回答一个问题时，你没有等我，而是把这本书带进了书房。冬宫大道，我不得不留下来直到你走完。

‘Thank you, Eleanor — a most honourable testimony. You see, Miss Morland, the injustice of your suspicions. Here was I, in my eagerness to get on, refusing to wait only five minutes for my sister, breaking the promise I had made of reading it aloud, and keeping her in suspense at a most interesting part, by running away with the volume, which, you are to observe, was her own, particularly her own. I am proud when I reflect on it, and I think it must establish me in your good opinion.’
“谢谢你，埃莉诺——这是最光荣的见证。莫兰小姐，你瞧，你的怀疑是不公正的。此刻，我急于继续阅读，拒绝为妹妹只等五分钟，违背了我大声朗读的诺言，并让她在最有趣的部分保持悬念，带着书卷逃跑了，你要注意，这是她自己的，尤其是她自己的。当我回想起来时，我感到很自豪，我认为这一定会让我在你的好感中得到体现。

‘I am very glad to hear it indeed, and now I shall never be ashamed of liking Udolpho myself. But I really thought before, young men despised novels amazingly.’
“我确实很高兴听到这个消息，现在我永远不会因为自己喜欢乌道夫而感到羞耻。但我以前确实认为，年轻人对小说的蔑视程度惊人。

‘It is amazingly; it may well suggest amazement if they do — for they read nearly as many as women. I myself have read hundreds and hundreds. Do not imagine that you can cope with me in a knowledge of Julias and Louisas. If we proceed to particulars, and engage in the never-ceasing inquiry of ‘Have you read this?’ and ‘Have you read that?’ I shall soon leave you as far behind me as — what shall I say? — I want an appropriate simile. — as far as your friend Emily herself left poor Valancourt when she went with her aunt into Italy. Consider how many years I have had the start of you. I had entered on my studies at Oxford, while you were a good little girl working your sampler at home!’
‘这太令人惊奇了；如果他们这样做，很可能会让人感到惊讶——因为他们的阅读量几乎与女性一样多。我自己已经阅读了数百本。别以为你了解朱莉娅和路易莎就能对付我。如果我们继续讨论细节，并不断地询问“你读过这个吗？”和“你读过那个吗？”我很快就会把你远远抛在身后——我该怎么说呢？ ——我想要一个恰当的比喻。 ——就你的朋友艾米丽本人来说，当她和姨妈一起去意大利时，她离开了可怜的瓦兰古。想想我从你开始已经多少年了。我已经在牛津大学学习了，而你却是一个在家里使用采样器的好女孩！

‘Not very good, I am afraid. But now really, do not you think Udolpho the nicest book in the world?’
“恐怕不太好。”但现在说真的，你不认为《乌道夫》是世界上最好的书吗？

‘The nicest — by which I suppose you mean the neatest. That must depend upon the binding.’
“最好的——我想你的意思是最整洁的。”这必须取决于绑定。

‘Henry,’ said Miss Tilney, ‘you are very impertinent. Miss Morland, he is treating you exactly as he does his sister. He is forever finding fault with me, for some incorrectness of language, and now he is taking the same liberty with you. The word ‘nicest,’ as you used it, did not suit him; and you had better change it as soon as you can, or we shall be overpowered with Johnson and Blair all the rest of the way.’
“亨利，”蒂尔尼小姐说，“你太无礼了。莫兰小姐，他对待你就像对待他妹妹一样。他总是因为一些语言上的不正确而对我挑剔，现在他也对你采取同样的自由态度。你用的“最好的”这个词并不适合他；你最好尽快改变它，否则我们将在剩下的过程中被约翰逊和布莱尔压倒。

‘I am sure,’ cried Catherine, ‘I did not mean to say anything wrong; but it is a nice book, and why should not I call it so?’
“我确信，”凯瑟琳喊道，“我无意说错话；但这是一本好书，我为什么不应该这样称呼它呢？

‘Very true,’ said Henry, ‘and this is a very nice day, and we are taking a very nice walk, and you are two very nice young ladies. Oh! It is a very nice word indeed! It does for everything. Originally perhaps it was applied only to express neatness, propriety, delicacy, or refinement — people were nice in their dress, in their sentiments, or their choice. But now every commendation on every subject is comprised in that one word.’
“非常正确，”亨利说，“这是非常美好的一天，我们正在散步，你们是两位非常好的年轻女士。哦！这确实是一个非常好的词！它适用于一切。最初，它可能只是用来表达整洁、得体、精致或精致——人们在穿着、情感或选择上都很友善。但现在每个主题的所有赞扬都包含在这个词中。”

‘While, in fact,’ cried his sister, ‘it ought only to be applied to you, without any commendation at all. You are more nice than wise. Come, Miss Morland, let us leave him to meditate over our faults in the utmost propriety of diction, while we praise Udolpho in whatever terms we like best. It is a most interesting work. You are fond of that kind of reading?’
“事实上，”他的妹妹喊道，“它应该只适用于你，根本不应该有任何赞扬。你比智慧更善良。来吧，莫兰小姐，让他用最恰当的措辞来思考我们的过错，而我们则用我们最喜欢的任何语言来赞美乌道夫。这是一部最有趣的作品。你喜欢那种阅读吗？

‘To say the truth, I do not much like any other.’
“说实话，我不太喜欢其他人。”

‘Indeed!’
'的确！'

‘That is, I can read poetry and plays, and things of that sort, and do not dislike travels. But history, real solemn history, I cannot be interested in. Can you?’
‘就是说，我会读诗、戏剧之类的东西，而且不讨厌旅行。但历史，真正庄严的历史，我不感兴趣。你可以吗？

‘Yes, I am fond of history.’
“是的，我喜欢历史。”

‘I wish I were too. I read it a little as a duty, but it tells me nothing that does not either vex or weary me. The quarrels of popes and kings, with wars or pestilences, in every page; the men all so good for nothing, and hardly any women at all — it is very tiresome: and yet I often think it odd that it should be so dull, for a great deal of it must be invention. The speeches that are put into the heroes’ mouths, their thoughts and designs — the chief of all this must be invention, and invention is what delights me in other books.’
‘我希望我也是。我把它当作一种义务读了一点，但它告诉我的一切都不是让我烦恼或疲倦的。每一页都有教皇和国王的争吵，战争或瘟疫；男人们都一无是处，几乎没有女人——这非常令人厌烦：但我常常认为它如此乏味很奇怪，因为其中很大一部分一定是虚构的。英雄们口中的言论、他们的想法和设计——这一切的首要部分一定是发明，而发明正是其他书中让我高兴的地方。

‘Historians, you think,’ said Miss Tilney, ‘are not happy in their flights of fancy. They display imagination without raising interest. I am fond of history — and am very well contented to take the false with the true. In the principal facts they have sources of intelligence in former histories and records, which may be as much depended on, I conclude, as anything that does not actually pass under one’s own observation; and as for the little embellishments you speak of, they are embellishments, and I like them as such. If a speech be well drawn up, I read it with pleasure, by whomsoever it may be made — and probably with much greater, if the production of Mr. Hume or Mr. Robertson, than if the genuine words of Caractacus, Agricola, or Alfred the Great.’
“你认为历史学家，”蒂尔尼小姐说，“他们的幻想并不快乐。他们展示想象力，却没有引起兴趣。我喜欢历史——并且很乐意以假乱真。在主要事实中，他们从以前的历史和记录中获得了情报来源，我的结论是，这些情报来源可能与任何实际上并未经过个人观察的事物一样重要。至于你所说的那些小点缀，它们就是点缀，我本身就喜欢它们。如果一篇演讲稿写得很好，我会很高兴地读它，无论它是由谁发表的——如果休谟先生或罗伯逊先生的演讲，可能比卡拉克塔库斯、阿格里科拉或罗伯逊先生的真实言论要伟大得多。阿尔弗雷德大帝。

‘You are fond of history! And so are Mr. Allen and my father; and I have two brothers who do not dislike it. So many instances within my small circle of friends is remarkable! At this rate, I shall not pity the writers of history any longer. If people like to read their books, it is all very well, but to be at so much trouble in filling great volumes, which, as I used to think, nobody would willingly ever look into, to be labouring only for the torment of little boys and girls, always struck me as a hard fate; and though I know it is all very right and necessary, I have often wondered at the person’s courage that could sit down on purpose to do it.’
‘你喜欢历史！艾伦先生和我父亲也是如此；我有两个兄弟也不喜欢它。在我的小圈子里有这么多例子，真是了不起！如此看来，我将不再怜悯历史的书写者了。如果人们喜欢读书，那一切都很好，但是要填满大量的书会遇到很多麻烦，正如我以前认为的那样，没有人会愿意去研究这些书，只是为了折磨一小部分人而劳作。男孩和女孩，总是给我一种艰难的命运；尽管我知道这一切都是非常正确和必要的，但我常常想知道这个人有多大勇气故意坐下来这样做。

‘That little boys and girls should be tormented,’ said Henry, ‘is what no one at all acquainted with human nature in a civilized state can deny; but in behalf of our most distinguished historians, I must observe that they might well be offended at being supposed to have no higher aim, and that by their method and style, they are perfectly well qualified to torment readers of the most advanced reason and mature time of life. I use the verb ‘to torment,’ as I observed to be your own method, instead of ‘to instruct,’ supposing them to be now admitted as synonymous.’
“小男孩和小女孩应该受到折磨，”亨利说，“这是任何一个了解文明国家人性的人都无法否认的；但代表我们最杰出的历史学家，我必须指出，他们很可能会因为被认为没有更高的目标而感到被冒犯，而且通过他们的方法和风格，他们完全有资格折磨最先进理性和成熟的读者。生命的时间。我使用动词“折磨”，因为我观察到这是你自己的方法，而不是“指导”，假设它们现在被认为是同义词。

‘You think me foolish to call instruction a torment, but if you had been as much used as myself to hear poor little children first learning their letters and then learning to spell, if you had ever seen how stupid they can be for a whole morning together, and how tired my poor mother is at the end of it, as I am in the habit of seeing almost every day of my life at home, you would allow that ‘to torment’ and ‘to instruct’ might sometimes be used as synonymous words.’
“你认为我把教学称为一种折磨是愚蠢的，但如果你和我一样习惯于听到可怜的小孩子先学习字母，然后学习拼写，如果你曾经看到他们整个早上有多么愚蠢在一起，以及我可怜的母亲在结束时有多累，因为我习惯于在家里看到我生活中的每一天，你会允许“折磨”和“指导”有时可能被用作同义词。

‘Very probably. But historians are not accountable for the difficulty of learning to read; and even you yourself, who do not altogether seem particularly friendly to very severe, very intense application, may perhaps be brought to acknowledge that it is very well worth-while to be tormented for two or three years of one’s life, for the sake of being able to read all the rest of it. Consider — if reading had not been taught, Mrs. Radcliffe would have written in vain — or perhaps might not have written at all.’
'很有可能。但历史学家并不对学习阅读的困难负责；而是要对学习阅读的困难负责。甚至你自己，对非常严格、非常强烈的应用似乎并不特别友好，也许也会承认，为了一个人的生命而受两三年的折磨是非常值得的。能够阅读其余所有内容。想想看——如果没有教阅读，拉德克利夫夫人就会徒劳地写作——或者可能根本不会写作。

Catherine assented — and a very warm panegyric from her on that lady’s merits closed the subject. The Tilneys were soon engaged in another on which she had nothing to say. They were viewing the country with the eyes of persons accustomed to drawing, and decided on its capability of being formed into pictures, with all the eagerness of real taste. Here Catherine was quite lost. She knew nothing of drawing — nothing of taste: and she listened to them with an attention which brought her little profit, for they talked in phrases which conveyed scarcely any idea to her. The little which she could understand, however, appeared to contradict the very few notions she had entertained on the matter before. It seemed as if a good view were no longer to be taken v
凯瑟琳同意了——她对这位女士的优点表示了热烈的赞扬，结束了这个话题。蒂尔尼一家很快又忙了另一件事，对此她无话可说。他们用习惯于绘画的人的眼睛来观察这个国家，并以真正的品味的渴望来决定它能否被形成为图画。凯瑟琳在这里完全迷失了。她对绘画一无所知——对品味一无所知：她全神贯注地听着他们，但这并没有给她带来什么好处，因为他们说话的措辞几乎没有向她传达任何想法。然而，她能理解的那一点点似乎与她之前对此事抱有的一些想法相矛盾。好风景似乎再也拍不到了

Chapter 15
第15章

Early the next day, a note from Isabella, speaking peace and tenderness in every line, and entreating the immediate presence of her friend on a matter of the utmost importance, hastened Catherine, in the happiest state of confidence and curiosity, to Edgar’s Buildings. The two youngest Miss Thorpes were by themselves in the parlour; and, on Anne’s quitting it to call her sister, Catherine took the opportunity of asking the other for some particulars of their yesterday’s party. Maria desired no greater pleasure than to speak of it; and Catherine immediately learnt that it had been altogether the most delightful scheme in the world, that nobody could imagine how charming it had been, and that it had been more delightful than anybody could conceive. Such was the information of the first five minutes; the second unfolded thus much in detail — that they had driven directly to the York Hotel, ate some soup, and bespoke an early dinner, walked down to the pump-room, tasted the water, and laid out some shillings in purses and spars; thence adjoined to eat ice at a pastry-cook’s, and hurrying back to the hotel, swallowed their dinner in haste, to prevent being in the dark; and then had a delightful drive back, only the moon was not up, and it rained a little, and Mr. Morland’s horse was so tired he could hardly get it along.
第二天一早，伊莎贝拉写来一封便条，字里行间充满了平静和温柔，并恳求她的朋友立即到场处理最重要的事情，凯瑟琳带着最幸福的自信和好奇心赶往埃德加的大楼。客厅里只有两个最小的索普斯小姐。当安妮停下来给姐姐打电话时，凯瑟琳趁机向对方询问了昨天聚会的一些细节。玛丽亚最想要的乐趣就是谈论它。凯瑟琳立即意识到，这完全是世界上最令人愉快的计划，没有人能想象它有多么迷人，而且比任何人想象的更令人愉快。这就是前五分钟的信息；第二个细节展开得非常详细——他们直接开车到约克旅馆，喝了一些汤，订了一顿早饭，走到水泵房，尝了水，在钱包和桅杆里放了一些先令；然后，他们把一些先令放在了钱包和桅杆上。然后去一家糕点店吃冰块，然后赶回旅馆，匆匆吃完晚饭，以免陷入黑暗。然后愉快地开车返回，只是月亮还没有升起来，还下着小雨，莫兰先生的马太累了，几乎无法前行。

Catherine listened with heartfelt satisfaction. It appeared that Blaize Castle had never been thought of; and, as for all the rest, there was nothing to regret for half an instant. Maria’s intelligence concluded with a tender effusion of pity for her sister Anne, whom she represented as insupportably cross, from being excluded the party.
凯瑟琳听了心里发自内心的满足。似乎从来没有人想到过布莱兹城堡；至于其余的一切，暂时没有什么可后悔的。玛丽亚的智慧最终流露出对她妹妹安妮的温柔怜悯，她认为安妮脾气暴躁，没有被排除在党之外。

‘She will never forgive me, I am sure; but, you know, how could I help it? John would have me go, for he vowed he would not drive her, because she had such thick ankles. I dare say she will not be in good humour again this month; but I am determined I will not be cross; it is not a little matter that puts me out of temper.’
“我确信她永远不会原谅我；但是，你知道，我该怎么办呢？约翰会让我走，因为他发誓他不会开车送她，因为她的脚踝很粗。我敢说这个月她的心情不会再好；但我决心不生气；这不是一件小事就能让我发脾气。

Isabella now entered the room with so eager a step, and a look of such happy importance, as engaged all her friend’s notice. Maria was without ceremony sent away, and Isabella, embracing Catherine, thus began: ‘Yes, my dear Catherine, it is so indeed; your penetration has not deceived you. Oh! That arch eye of yours! It sees through everything.’
伊莎贝拉迈着急切的步伐走进了房间，脸上的神情显得如此幸福而重要，吸引了她所有朋友的注意。玛丽亚没有仪式地被送走了，伊莎贝拉拥抱着凯瑟琳，这样开始说：“是的，我亲爱的凯瑟琳，确实是这样；”你的洞察力并没有欺骗你。哦！你那双圆拱眼！它看透一切。

Catherine replied only by a look of wondering ignorance.
凯瑟琳只是用一脸疑惑的无知表情回答道。

‘Nay, my beloved, sweetest friend,’ continued the other, ‘compose yourself. I am amazingly agitated, as you perceive. Let us sit down and talk in comfort. Well, and so you guessed it the moment you had my note? Sly creature! Oh! My dear Catherine, you alone, who know my heart, can judge of my present happiness. Your brother is the most charming of men. I only wish I were more worthy of him. But what will your excellent father and mother say? Oh! Heavens! When I think of them I am so agitated!’
“不，我亲爱的、最可爱的朋友，”另一个人继续说道，“冷静一下。”正如你所见，我非常激动。让我们坐下来舒舒服服地谈谈吧。嗯，所以你一看到我的便条就猜到了？狡猾的生物！哦！我亲爱的凯瑟琳，只有你知道我的心，才能判断我现在的幸福。你的兄弟是最有魅力的男人。我只希望我能更配得上他。但你优秀的父亲和母亲会怎么说呢？哦！天！当我想到他们时，我感到非常激动！”

Catherine’s understanding began to awake: an idea of the truth suddenly darted into her mind; and, with the natural blush of so new an emotion, she cried out, ‘Good heaven! My dear Isabella, what do you mean? Can you — can you really be in love with James?’
凯瑟琳的悟性开始苏醒：一个关于真相的想法突然闯入她的脑海；她因一种新的情感而自然地脸红，大声喊道：“天哪！”我亲爱的伊莎贝拉，你这是什么意思？你能——你真的能爱上詹姆斯吗？

This bold surmise, however, she soon learnt comprehended but half the fact. The anxious affection, which she was accused of having continually watched in Isabella’s every look and action, had, in the course of their yesterday’s party, received the delightful confession of an equal love. Her heart and faith were alike engaged to James. Never had Catherine listened to anything so full of interest, wonder, and joy. Her brother and her friend engaged! New to such circumstances, the importance of it appeared unspeakably great, and she contemplated it as one of those grand events, of which the ordinary course of life can hardly afford a return. The strength of her feelings she could not express; the nature of them, however, contented her friend. The happiness of having such a sister was their first effusion, and the fair ladies mingled in embraces and tears of joy.
然而，她很快就发现这个大胆的猜测只符合事实的一半。人们指责她不断地从伊莎贝拉的一举一动中观察到的焦灼的感情，在他们昨天的聚会过程中，却得到了平等爱情的令人愉快的表白。她的心和信仰都与詹姆斯有关。凯瑟琳从来没有听过如此充满兴趣、惊奇和喜悦的声音。她的哥哥和她的朋友订婚了！面对这样的情况，它的重要性显得难以言表的巨大，她认为这是那些重大事件之一，普通的生活过程很难承受这样的回报。她无法表达她内心的强烈感情；然而，它们的本质却让她的朋友感到满意。有这样一个姐姐的幸福感是她们第一次流露出来，美丽的女士们拥抱在一起，流下了喜悦的泪水。

Delighting, however, as Catherine sincerely did in the prospect of the connection, it must be acknowledged that Isabella far surpassed her in tender anticipations. ‘You will be so infinitely dearer to me, my Catherine, than either Anne or Maria: I feel that I shall be so much more attached to my dear Morland’s family than to my own.’
然而，令人高兴的是，正如凯瑟琳真诚地期待这种联系的前景一样，必须承认伊莎贝拉在温柔的期望方面远远超过了她。 “我的凯瑟琳，你对我来说将比安妮或玛丽亚更加亲切：我觉得我会更加依恋我亲爱的莫兰的家人，而不是我自己的家人。”

This was a pitch of friendship beyond Catherine.
这是一种超越凯瑟琳的友谊。

‘You are so like your dear brother,’ continued Isabella, ‘that I quite doted on you the first moment I saw you. But so it always is with me; the first moment settles everything. The very first day that Morland came to us last Christmas — the very first moment I beheld him — my heart was irrecoverably gone. I remember I wore my yellow gown, with my hair done up in braids; and when I came into the drawing-room, and John introduced him, I thought I never saw anybody so handsome before.’
“你太像你亲爱的兄弟了，”伊莎贝拉继续说道，“我第一眼看到你就非常喜欢你。但我总是如此；第一瞬间就解决了一切。去年圣诞节莫兰来到我们身边的第一天——我第一眼看到他的那一刻——我的心就不可挽回地消失了。我记得我穿着黄色长袍，头发扎成辫子；当我走进客厅，约翰介绍他时，我想我以前从未见过如此英俊的人。

Here Catherine secretly acknowledged the power of love; for, though exceedingly fond of her brother, and partial to all his endowments, she had never in her life thought him handsome.
在这里，凯瑟琳暗自承认了爱的力量；因为，尽管她非常喜欢她的哥哥，并且偏爱他的所有天赋，但她一生中从未认为他英俊。

‘I remember too, Miss Andrews drank tea with us that evening, and wore her puce-coloured sarsenet; and she looked so heavenly that I thought your brother must certainly fall in love with her; I could not sleep a wink all right for thinking of it. Oh! Catherine, the many sleepless nights I have had on your brother’s account! I would not have you suffer half what I have done! I am grown wretchedly thin, I know; but I will not pain you by describing my anxiety; you have seen enough of it. I feel that I have betrayed myself perpetually — so unguarded in speaking of my partiality for the church! But my secret I was always sure would be safe with you.’
“我还记得，那天晚上，安德鲁斯小姐和我们一起喝茶，穿着深褐色的沙石色衣服；她看起来如此美丽，我想你的兄弟一定爱上了她；一想到这件事我就睡不着觉。哦！凯瑟琳，为了你哥哥，我度过了许多个不眠之夜！我不会让你遭受我所做的一半的痛苦！我知道我已经瘦得可怜；但我不会因为描述我的焦虑而让你感到痛苦；你已经看够了。我觉得我永远背叛了自己——在谈论我对教会的偏爱时如此不加警惕！但我一直确信我的秘密对你来说是安全的。”

Catherine felt that nothing could have been safer; but ashamed of an ignorance little expected, she dared no longer contest the point, nor refuse to have been as full of arch penetration and affectionate sympathy as Isabella chose to consider her. Her brother, she found, was preparing to set off with all speed to Fullerton, to make known his situation and ask consent; and here was a source of some real agitation to the mind of Isabella. Catherine endeavoured to persuade her, as she was herself persuaded, that her father and mother would never oppose their son’s wishes. ‘It is impossible,’ said she, ‘for parents to be more kind, or more desirous of their children’s happiness; I have no doubt of their consenting immediately.’
凯瑟琳觉得没有什么比这更安全的了。但她为自己出乎意料的无知感到羞愧，不敢再对这一点提出异议，也不敢拒绝伊莎贝拉选择对她充满洞察力和深情同情。她发现，她的兄弟正准备全速前往富勒顿，了解他的情况并征求同意；这是伊莎贝拉内心真正不安的根源。凯瑟琳努力说服她，就像她自己说服的那样，她的父母永远不会反对儿子的愿望。 “父母不可能更加仁慈，也不可能更加渴望孩子的幸福；”她说道。我毫不怀疑他们会立即同意。

‘Morland says exactly the same,’ replied Isabella; ‘and yet I dare not expect it; my fortune will be so small; they never can consent to it. Your brother, who might marry anybody!’
“莫兰也这么说，”伊莎贝拉回答道。 “但我不敢期待它；我的财富将会如此之少；他们永远无法同意。你的兄弟，可能会嫁给任何人！

Here Catherine again discerned the force of love.
在这里，凯瑟琳再次感受到了爱的力量。

‘Indeed, Isabella, you are too humble. The difference of fortune can be nothing to signify.’
“确实，伊莎贝拉，你太谦虚了。命运的差异根本没有什么意义。

‘Oh! My sweet Catherine, in your generous heart I know it would signify nothing; but we must not expect such disinterestedness in many. As for myself, I am sure I only wish our situations were reversed. Had I the command of millions, were I mistress of the whole world, your brother would be my only choice.’
'哦！我亲爱的凯瑟琳，在你慷慨的心目中，我知道这毫无意义；但我们不能指望许多人会如此无私。至于我自己，我确信我只希望我们的情况能够逆转。如果我指挥着数百万人，如果我是整个世界的情妇，你的兄弟将是我唯一的选择。

This charming sentiment, recommended as much by sense as novelty, gave Catherine a most pleasing remembrance of all the heroines of her acquaintance; and she thought her friend never looked more lovely than in uttering the grand idea. ‘I am sure they will consent,’ was her frequent declaration; ‘I am sure they will be delighted with you.’
这种迷人的情感，既出于感觉又出于新奇，使凯瑟琳对她所认识的所有女英雄都留下了最愉快的回忆。她认为她的朋友在说出这个伟大想法时显得最可爱。 “我相信他们会同意的，”这是她经常说的。 “我相信他们会对你感到高兴。”

‘For my own part,’ said Isabella, ‘my wishes are so moderate that the smallest income in nature would be enough for me. Where people are really attached, poverty itself is wealth; grandeur I detest: I would not settle in London for the universe. A cottage in some retired village would be ecstasy. There are some charming little villas about Richmond.’
“就我个人而言，”伊莎贝拉说，“我的愿望非常温和，自然界中最小的收入对我来说就足够了。”人真正有执着的时候，贫穷本身就是财富；我厌恶宏伟：我不会为了宇宙而定居在伦敦。某个退休村庄的小屋会让人欣喜若狂。里士满有一些迷人的小别墅。

‘Richmond!’ cried Catherine. ‘You must settle near Fullerton. You must be near us.’
“里士满！”凯瑟琳喊道。 “你必须在富勒顿附近定居。你一定就在我们附近。

‘I am sure I shall be miserable if we do not. If I can but be near you, I shall be satisfied. But this is idle talking! I will not allow myself to think of such things, till we have your father’s answer. Morland says that by sending it tonight to Salisbury, we may have it tomorrow. Tomorrow? I know I shall never have courage to open the letter. I know it will be the death of me.’
“我确信，如果我们不这样做，我会很痛苦。只要能靠近你，我就心满意足了。但这都是废话！在得到你父亲的答复之前，我不会允许自己去想这些事情。莫兰说，今晚将其发送到索尔兹伯里，我们明天就可以收到。明天？我知道我永远没有勇气打开这封信。我知道这将是我的死亡。

A reverie succeeded this conviction — and when Isabella spoke again, it was to resolve on the quality of her wedding-gown.
这一信念引发了一场遐想——当伊莎贝拉再次开口时，她决定要考虑她婚纱的质量。

Their conference was put an end to by the anxious young lover himself, who came to breathe his parting sigh before he set off for Wiltshire. Catherine wished to congratulate him, but knew not what to say, and her eloquence was only in her eyes. From them, however, the eight parts of speech shone out most expressively, and James could combine them with ease. Impatient for the realization of all that he hoped at home, his adieus were not long; and they would have been yet shorter, had he not been frequently detained by the urgent entreaties of his fair one that he would go. Twice was he called almost from the door by her eagerness to have him gone. ‘Indeed, Morland, I must drive you away. Consider how far you have to ride. I cannot bear to see you linger so. For heaven’s sake, waste no more time. There, go, go — I insist on it.’
他们的会议被这位焦虑的年轻恋人本人结束了，他在出发前往威尔特郡之前叹了一口气。凯瑟琳想要祝贺他，却又不知道该说什么，她的雄辩只在眼里。然而，其中八个词类表现得最为出色，詹姆斯可以轻松地将它们组合起来。他迫不及待地想实现他在家里所希望的一切，所以他的告别时间并不长。如果不是他的那位美丽的女士急切地恳求他去的话，他的时间会更短。有两次，他差点被她从门口叫住，因为她急切地想让他走。 “确实，莫兰，我必须把你赶走。考虑一下您需要骑多远。我不忍心看到你这样徘徊。看在上帝的份上，别再浪费时间了。就这样，走，走——我坚持这样做。

The two friends, with hearts now more united than ever, were inseparable for the day; and in schemes of sisterly happiness the hours flew along. Mrs. Thorpe and her son, who were acquainted with everything, and who seemed only to want Mr. Morland’s consent, to consider Isabella’s engagement as the most fortunate circumstance imaginable for their family, were allowed to join their counsels, and add their quota of significant looks and mysterious expressions to fill up the measure of curiosity to be raised in the unprivileged younger sisters. To Catherine’s simple feelings, this odd sort of reserve seemed neither kindly meant, nor consistently supported; and its unkindness she would hardly have forborne pointing out, had its inconsistency been less their friend; but Anne and Maria soon set her heart at ease by the sagacity of their ‘I know what”; and the evening was spent in a sort of war of wit, a display of family ingenuity, on one side in the mystery of an affected secret, on the other of undefined discovery, all equally acute.
这两个朋友的心现在比以往任何时候都更加团结，这一天形影不离。在姐妹般幸福的计划中，时间过得飞快。索普夫人和她的儿子对一切都了如指掌，似乎只是想得到莫兰先生的同意，他们认为伊莎贝拉的订婚对他们的家庭来说是可以想象的最幸运的情况，他们被允许加入他们的顾问，并增加他们的配额意味深长的眼神和神秘的表情，满足了贫困妹妹们的好奇心。对于凯瑟琳单纯的感觉来说，这种奇怪的矜持似乎既不善意，也不一贯得到支持。如果这种不一致对他们来说不是那么友好的话，她几乎会忍不住指出它的不友善。但安妮和玛丽亚很快就因为她们“我知道什么”的睿智而安心了。整个晚上都在一场斗智斗勇中度过，这是一场家庭聪明才智的展示，一方面是一个隐秘的秘密，另一方面是未明确的发现，所有这些都同样尖锐。

Catherine was with her friend again the next day, endeavouring to support her spirits and while away the many tedious hours before the delivery of the letters; a needful exertion, for as the time of reasonable expectation drew near, Isabella became more and more desponding, and before the letter arrived, had worked herself into a state of real distress. But when it did come, where could distress be found? ‘I have had no difficulty in gaining the consent of my kind parents, and am promised that everything in their power shall be done to forward my happiness,’ were the first three lines, and in one moment all was joyful security. The brightest glow was instantly spread over Isabella’s features, all care and anxiety seemed removed, her spirits became almost too high for control, and she called herself without scruple the happiest of mortals.
第二天，凯瑟琳又和她的朋友在一起，努力养精蓄锐，打发信件送达前的许多乏味的时间。这是必要的努力，因为随着合理预期的时间越来越近，伊莎贝拉变得越来越沮丧，在信到达之前，她已经让自己陷入了真正的痛苦状态。但当它真正来临的时候，哪里还能找到苦恼呢？前三行是“我毫不费力地得到了我善良的父母的同意，并承诺他们将尽一切努力来促进我的幸福”，在那一刻，一切都充满了快乐的安全感。伊莎贝拉的脸上顿时绽放出最耀眼的光芒，所有的忧虑和焦虑似乎都消失了，她的情绪变得几乎无法控制，她毫无顾忌地称自己是凡人中最幸福的。

Mrs. Thorpe, with tears of joy, embraced her daughter, her son, her visitor, and could have embraced half the inhabitants of Bath with satisfaction. Her heart was overflowing with tenderness. It was ‘dear John’ and ‘dear Catherine’ at every word; ‘dear Anne and dear Maria’ must immediately be made sharers in their felicity; and two ‘dears’ at once before the name of Isabella were not more than that beloved child had now well earned. John himself was no skulker in joy. He not only bestowed on Mr. Morland the high commendation of being one of the finest fellows in the world, but swore off many sentences in his praise.
索普夫人满含喜悦的泪水，拥抱了她的女儿、她的儿子、她的访客，甚至可以心满意足地拥抱巴斯的一半居民。她的心里充满了温柔。每一个字都是“亲爱的约翰”和“亲爱的凯瑟琳”。 “亲爱的安妮和亲爱的玛丽亚”必须立即分享她们的幸福；伊莎贝拉的名字前面同时出现了两个“亲爱的”，这只不过是这个心爱的孩子现在应得的。约翰本人并没有欣喜若狂。他不仅高度赞扬莫兰先生是世界上最优秀的人之一，而且还放弃了对他的赞扬中的许多句子。

The letter, whence sprang all this felicity, was short, containing little more than this assurance of success; and every particular was deferred till James could write again. But for particulars Isabella could well afford to wait. The needful was comprised in Mr. Morland’s promise; his honour was pledged to make everything easy; and by what means their income was to be formed, whether landed property were to be resigned, or funded money made over, was a matter in which her disinterested spirit took no concern. She knew enough to feel secure of an honourable and speedy establishment, and her imagination took a rapid flight over its attendant felicities. She saw herself at the end of a few weeks, the gaze and admiration of every new acquaintance at Fullerton, the envy of every valued old friend in Putney, with a carriage at her command, a new name on her tickets, and a brilliant exhibition of hoop rings on her finger.
这封充满幸福的信很短，除了对成功的保证之外，几乎没有什么内容。所有细节都被推迟到詹姆斯再次写信为止。但对于细节，伊莎贝拉完全可以等待。莫兰先生的承诺包含了这些需要。他的荣誉保证会让一切变得容易；他们的收入是通过什么方式形成的，是放弃土地财产，还是转交资助资金，这些都是她无私的精神所不关心的。她知道足够多的知识，足以对一个光荣而快速的机构感到安全，她的想象力飞快地飞过随之而来的幸福。几周后，她看到了自己，富勒顿每一个新朋友的目光和钦佩，普特尼每一位尊贵老朋友的羡慕，有一辆马车在她的指挥下，她的票上有一个新名字，还有一场精彩的展览她手指上的戒指。

When the contents of the letter were ascertained, John Thorpe, who had only waited its arrival to begin his journey to London, prepared to set off. ‘Well, Miss Morland,’ said he, on finding her alone in the parlour, ‘I am come to bid you good-bye.’ Catherine wished him a good journey. Without appearing to hear her, he walked to the window, fidgeted about, hummed a tune, and seemed wholly self-occupied.
当确定了信的内容后，只等信来就开始伦敦之旅的约翰·索普就准备出发了。 “好吧，莫兰小姐，”当他发现莫兰小姐独自一人在客厅里时，他说道，“我是来向你告别的。”凯瑟琳祝他旅途愉快。他似乎没有听见她说话，走到窗前，坐立不安，哼着小调，似乎全神贯注。

‘Shall not you be late at Devizes?’ said Catherine. He made no answer; but after a minute’s silence burst out with, ‘A famous good thing this marrying scheme, upon my soul! A clever fancy of Morland’s and Belle’s. What do you think of it, Miss Morland? I say it is no bad notion.’
“你到迪韦齐斯不会迟到吗？”凯瑟琳说。他没有回答。但沉默了一分钟后，突然爆发出这样的话：“这次婚姻计划是一件著名的好事，我的灵魂！”莫兰和贝尔的聪明创意。莫兰小姐，你觉得怎么样？我说这不是一个坏主意。

‘I am sure I think it a very good one.’
“我确信我认为这是一件非常好的事情。”

‘Do you? That’s honest, by heavens! I am glad you are no enemy to matrimony, however. Did you ever hear the old song ‘Going to One Wedding Brings on Another?’ I say, you will come to Belle’s wedding, I hope.’
'你？这是诚实的，天哪！不过，我很高兴你不是婚姻的敌人。你听过一首老歌“去参加一场婚礼会带来另一场婚礼吗？”我说，我希望你会来参加贝儿的婚礼。

‘Yes; I have promised your sister to be with her, if possible.’
'是的;我已经答应你姐姐如果可能的话会和她在一起。

‘And then you know’ — twisting himself about and forcing a foolish laugh — ‘I say, then you know, we may try the truth of this same old song.’
“然后你就知道了”——他扭动着身子，强行发出愚蠢的笑声——“我说，那么你就知道了，我们可以试试这首老歌的真实性。”

‘May we? But I never sing. Well, I wish you a good journey. I dine with Miss Tilney today, and must now be going home.’
'我们可以？但我从来不唱歌。嗯，祝你旅途愉快。我今天和蒂尔尼小姐一起吃饭，现在必须回家了。

‘Nay, but there is no such confounded hurry. Who knows when we may be together again? Not but that I shall be down again by the end of a fortnight, and a devilish long fortnight it will appear to me.’
“不，但是没有这么混乱的匆忙。谁知道我们什么时候才能再次在一起呢？并不是说我会在两周后再次沮丧，而且对我来说这将是一个可怕的漫长的两周。

‘Then why do you stay away so long?’ replied Catherine — finding that he waited for an answer.
“那你为什么离开这么久？”凯瑟琳回答道——发现他在等待答案。

‘That is kind of you, however — kind and good-natured. I shall not forget it in a hurry. But you have more good nature and all that, than anybody living, I believe. A monstrous deal of good nature, and it is not only good nature, but you have so much, so much of everything; and then you have such — upon my soul, I do not know anybody like you.’
“不过，你真是太好了——善良而且心地善良。我不会匆忙忘记它。但我相信，你比任何活着的人都拥有更多善良的本性。这是一种巨大的善良本性，这不仅是善良的本性，而且你拥有如此多、如此多的一切；然后你就有了这样的人——以我的灵魂发誓，我不认识像你这样的人。

‘Oh! dear, there are a great many people like me, I dare say, only a great deal better. Good morning to you.’
'哦！亲爱的，像我这样的人有很多，我敢说，只是比我好得多。早上好。

‘But I say, Miss Morland, I shall come and pay my respects at Fullerton before it is long, if not disagreeable.’
“但是我说，莫兰小姐，我会在时间过长（即使不是令人不愉快）之前到富勒顿表达敬意。”

‘Pray do. My father and mother will be very glad to see you.’
‘请祈祷吧。我的爸爸妈妈见到你一定会很高兴的。”

‘And I hope — I hope, Miss Morland, you will not be sorry to see me.’
“我希望——我希望，莫兰小姐，你见到我不会感到遗憾。”

‘Oh! dear, not at all. There are very few people I am sorry to see. Company is always cheerful.’
'哦！亲爱的，一点也不。我遗憾见到的人很少。公司总是令人愉快。

‘That is just my way of thinking. Give me but a little cheerful company, let me only have the company of the people I love, let me only be where I like and with whom I like, and the devil take the rest, say I. And I am heartily glad to hear you say the same. But I have a notion, Miss Morland, you and I think pretty much alike upon most matters.’
‘这只是我的想法。给我一点快乐的陪伴，让我只和我爱的人在一起，让我只去我喜欢的地方，和我喜欢的人在一起，魔鬼会带走其余的，我说。我很高兴听到你也这么说。但我有一个想法，莫兰小姐，你和我在大多数问题上的想法都非常相似。

‘Perhaps we may; but it is more than I ever thought of. And as to most matters, to say the truth, there are not many that I know my own mind about.’
“也许我们可以；但这比我想象的还要多。对于大多数事情，说实话，我自己了解的并不多。

‘By Jove, no more do I. It is not my way to bother my brains with what does not concern me. My notion of things is simple enough. Let me only have the girl I like, say I, with a comfortable house over my head, and what care I for all the rest? Fortune is nothing. I am sure of a good income of my own; and if she had not a penny, why, so much the better.’
“天哪，我不再这样做了。这不是我用与我无关的事情来打扰我的大脑的方式。我对事物的看法很简单。我说，只让我拥有我喜欢的女孩，头顶上有一个舒适的房子，其他的我又何必在意呢？财富不算什么。我确信自己有不错的收入；如果她一分钱都没有，那更好了。”

‘Very true. I think like you there. If there is a good fortune on one side, there can be no occasion for any on the other. No matter which has it, so that there is enough. I hate the idea of one great fortune looking out for another. And to marry for money I think the wickedest thing in existence. Good day. We shall be very glad to see you at Fullerton, whenever it is convenient.’ And away she went. It was not in the power of all his gallantry to detain her longer. With such news to communicate, and such a visit to prepare for, her departure was not to be delayed by anything in his nature to urge; and she hurried away, leaving him to the undivided consciousness of his own happy address, and her explicit encouragement.
‘非常正确。我想像你一样。一方面有福气，另一方面就没有机会了。不管哪个有，这样就够了。我讨厌让一笔巨额财富去寻找另一笔巨额财富的想法。我认为为了金钱而结婚是世界上最邪恶的事情。再会。只要方便的话，我们都会很高兴在富勒顿见到你。”说完她就走了。他的殷勤也无法再多留她一会儿。有了这样的消息要传达，又要准备这样的访问，她的离开不会被他本性催促的任何事情所耽搁。她匆匆离去，留下他全神贯注地想着自己的愉快讲话和她明确的鼓励。

The agitation which she had herself experienced on first learning her brother’s engagement made her expect to raise no inconsiderable emotion in Mr. and Mrs. Allen, by the communication of the wonderful event. How great was her disappointment! The important affair, which many words of preparation ushered in, had been foreseen by them both ever since her brother’s arrival; and all that they felt on the occasion was comprehended in a wish for the young people’s happiness, with a remark, on the gentleman’s side, in favour of Isabella’s beauty, and on the lady’s, of her great good luck. It was to Catherine the most surprising insensibility. The disclosure, however, of the great secret of James’s going to Fullerton the day before, did raise some emotion in Mrs. Allen. She could not listen to that with perfect calmness, but repeatedly regretted the necessity of its concealment, wished she could have known his intention, wished she could have seen him before he went, as she should certainly have troubled him with her best regards to his father and mother, and her kind compliments to all the Skinners.
当她第一次得知哥哥订婚的消息时，她自己也经历过的激动，这使得她希望通过传达这一奇妙的事件，在艾伦先生和夫人身上激起不小的情绪。她的失望是多么大啊！自从她哥哥到来后，他们俩就已经预见到了这件重要的事情，许多话都预示着这件事。他们在这个场合所感受到的一切都体现在对年轻人幸福的祝愿上，绅士方面称赞伊莎贝拉的美丽，女士方面则祝愿她好运。对凯瑟琳来说，这是最令人惊讶的麻木不仁。然而，前一天詹姆斯去富勒顿的重大秘密的披露确实引起了艾伦夫人的一些情绪。她无法完全平静地听着，但一再后悔必须隐瞒，希望她能知道他的意图，希望她能在他走之前见到他，因为她当然应该麻烦他，向他致以最诚挚的问候。父亲和母亲，以及她对所有斯金纳一家的亲切致意。

Chapter 16
第16章

Catherine’s expectations of pleasure from her visit in Milsom Street were so very high that disappointment was inevitable; and accordingly, though she was most politely received by General Tilney, and kindly welcomed by his daughter, though Henry was at home, and no one else of the party, she found, on her return, without spending many hours in the examination of her feelings, that she had gone to her appointment preparing for happiness which it had not afforded. Instead of finding herself improved in acquaintance with Miss Tilney, from the intercourse of the day, she seemed hardly so intimate with her as before; instead of seeing Henry Tilney to greater advantage than ever, in the ease of a family party, he had never said so little, nor been so little agreeable; and, in spite of their father’s great civilities to her — in spite of his thanks, invitations, and compliments — it had been a release to get away from him. It puzzled her to account for all this. It could not be General Tilney’s fault. That he was perfectly agreeable and good-natured, and altogether a very charming man, did not admit of a doubt, for he was tall and handsome, and Henry’s father. He could not be accountable for his children’s want of spirits, or for her want of enjoyment in his company. The former she hoped at last might have been accidental, and the latter she could only attribute to her own stupidity. Isabella, on hearing the particulars of the visit, gave a different explanation: ‘It was all pride, pride, insufferable haughtiness and pride! She had long suspected the family to be very high, and this made it certain. Such insolence of behaviour as Miss Tilney’s she had never heard of in her life! Not to do the honours of her house with common good breeding! To behave to her guest with such superciliousness! Hardly even to speak to her!’
凯瑟琳对米尔瑟姆街之行抱有很高的期望，因此失望是不可避免的。因此，尽管她受到了蒂尔尼将军最有礼貌的接待，并受到了他女儿的亲切欢迎，尽管亨利在家，而且队伍中没有其他人，但她发现，在她回来后，没有花很多时间来检查她的身体状况。感觉她已经去赴约，为幸福做准备了，而幸福并没有给她带来。从那天的交往中，她发现自己与蒂尔尼小姐的关系并没有得到改善，反而似乎不再像以前那么亲密了。在轻松的家庭聚会中，他没有看到亨利·蒂尔尼比以往任何时候都更有利，他从来没有说过这么少的话，也从来没有这么不友善过。尽管他们的父亲对她非常客气，尽管他对她表示感谢、邀请和赞美，但离开他却是一种解脱。她对这一切的解释感到困惑。这不可能是蒂尔尼将军的错。毫无疑问，他非常和蔼可亲，脾气很好，而且是一个非常有魅力的男人，因为他又高又英俊，是亨利的父亲。他无法为孩子们缺乏精神负责，也无法为她在他的陪伴下缺乏乐趣负责。她最终希望前者可能是偶然的，而后者则只能归因于她自己的愚蠢。伊莎贝拉在听到这次访问的细节后给出了不同的解释：“这全是骄傲、骄傲、令人难以忍受的傲慢和骄傲！”她早就怀疑这个家族的地位很高，这一点就更确定了。蒂尔尼小姐如此无礼的行为，她这辈子从来没有听说过！不以共同的良好教养来维护她家族的荣誉！ 对她的客人竟然如此傲慢！连跟她说话都不敢！’

‘But it was not so bad as that, Isabella; there was no superciliousness; she was very civil.’
“但事情并没有那么糟糕，伊莎贝拉；没有傲慢；她非常有礼貌。

‘Oh! Don’t defend her! And then the brother, he, who had appeared so attached to you! Good heavens! Well, some people’s feelings are incomprehensible. And so he hardly looked once at you the whole day?’
'哦！不要为她辩护！还有那个哥哥，他，对你那么依恋！我的妈呀！好吧，有些人的心情是无法理解的。所以他一整天几乎没看你一眼？

‘I do not say so; but he did not seem in good spirits.’
“我不是这么说的；但他看上去精神不太好。”

‘How contemptible! Of all things in the world inconstancy is my aversion. Let me entreat you never to think of him again, my dear Catherine; indeed he is unworthy of you.’
‘多么卑鄙啊！在世界上的所有事物中，变化无常是我所厌恶的。让我恳求你永远不要再想起他，我亲爱的凯瑟琳；他确实配不上你。

‘Unworthy! I do not suppose he ever thinks of me.’
‘不配！我想他从来没有想到过我。

‘That is exactly what I say; he never thinks of you. Such fickleness! Oh! How different to your brother and to mine! I really believe John has the most constant heart.’
“这正是我所说的；他从来没有想到过你。如此善变！哦！你的兄弟和我的兄弟多么不同啊！我真的相信约翰有一颗最坚定的心。

‘But as for General Tilney, I assure you it would be impossible for anybody to behave to me with greater civility and attention; it seemed to be his only care to entertain and make me happy.’
“但是至于蒂尔尼将军，我向你保证，任何人都不可能对我表现得更加礼貌和关心；似乎他唯一关心的是娱乐和让我开心。

‘Oh! I know no harm of him; I do not suspect him of pride. I believe he is a very gentleman-like man. John thinks very well of him, and John’s judgment — ‘
'哦！我不知道他有什么坏处；我不怀疑他骄傲。我相信他是一个非常有绅士风度的人。约翰对他评价很好，约翰的判断——‘

‘Well, I shall see how they behave to me this evening; we shall meet them at the rooms.’
“好吧，今晚我要看看他们对我怎么样；我们将在房间与他们见面。

‘And must I go?’
“我必须走吗？”

‘Do not you intend it? I thought it was all settled.’
‘你不是故意的吗？我以为一切都解决了。

‘Nay, since you make such a point of it, I can refuse you nothing. But do not insist upon my being very agreeable, for my heart, you know, will be some forty miles off. And as for dancing, do not mention it, I beg; that is quite out of the question. Charles Hodges will plague me to death, I dare say; but I shall cut him very short. Ten to one but he guesses the reason, and that is exactly what I want to avoid, so I shall insist on his keeping his conjecture to himself.’
“不，既然你都这么说了，我也不能拒绝你。”但不要坚持要求我表现得非常和蔼可亲，因为你知道，我的心离我大约有四十英里。至于跳舞，我求求你别提了；这是不可能的。我敢说，查尔斯·霍奇斯会把我折磨死的；但我会很简短地把他打断。十比一，但他猜出了原因，而这正是我想要避免的，所以我会坚持让他保守自己的猜测。

Isabella’s opinion of the Tilneys did not influence her friend; she was sure there had been no insolence in the manners either of brother or sister; and she did not credit there being any pride in their hearts. The evening rewarded her confidence; she was met by one with the same kindness, and by the other with the same attention, as heretofore: Miss Tilney took pains to be near her, and Henry asked her to dance.
伊莎贝拉对蒂尔尼一家的看法并没有影响她的朋友。她确信，无论是兄弟还是姐妹，在举止上都没有傲慢无礼的地方。她不认为他们心里有任何骄傲。夜晚给了她信心。一个人以同样的善意迎接她，另一个人以同样的关注迎接她，就像迄今为止一样：蒂尔尼小姐煞费苦心地靠近她，亨利请她跳舞。

Having heard the day before in Milsom Street that their elder brother, Captain Tilney, was expected almost every hour, she was at no loss for the name of a very fashionable-looking, handsome young man, whom she had never seen before, and who now evidently belonged to their party. She looked at him with great admiration, and even supposed it possible that some people might think him handsomer than his brother, though, in her eyes, his air was more assuming, and his countenance less prepossessing. His taste and manners were beyond a doubt decidedly inferior; for, within her hearing, he not only protested against every thought of dancing himself, but even laughed openly at Henry for finding it possible. From the latter circumstance it may be presumed that, whatever might be our heroine’s opinion of him, his admiration of her was not of a very dangerous kind; not likely to produce animosities between the brothers, nor persecutions to the lady. He cannot be the instigator of the three villains in horsemen’s greatcoats, by whom she will hereafter be forced into a traveling-chaise and four, which will drive off with incredible speed. Catherine, meanwhile, undisturbed by presentiments of such an evil, or of any evil at all, except that of having but a short set to dance down, enjoyed her usual happiness with Henry Tilney, listening with sparkling eyes to everything he said; and, in finding him irresistible, becoming so herself.
前一天在米尔瑟姆街听说他们的哥哥蒂尔尼船长几乎每小时都会来一次，她对这个看起来很时尚、英俊的年轻人的名字毫不犹豫，她以前从未见过他，而且他的名字也很漂亮。现在显然属于他们的政党了。她十分钦佩地看着他，甚至觉得，可能有人会觉得他比他哥哥还要英俊，不过在她眼里，他的神态比较张扬，面容也不那么好看。毫无疑问，他的品味和举止明显低劣。因为，在她的耳边，他不仅反对自己跳舞的每一个想法，甚至公开嘲笑亨利发现这是可能的。从后一种情况可以推测，无论我们的女主人公对他的看法如何，他对她的钦佩都不是一种非常危险的类型；他对她的钦佩并不是非常危险的。不太可能在兄弟之间产生仇恨，也不太可能对女士造成迫害。他不可能是三个穿骑兵大衣的恶棍的煽动者，她将被他们强行塞进一辆旅行马车和四辆马车上，这辆马车将以令人难以置信的速度离开。与此同时，凯瑟琳并没有被这种邪恶的预感所困扰，或者根本没有被任何邪恶的预感所困扰，除了只有一小段舞蹈可以跳舞之外，她享受着与亨利·蒂尔尼平常的快乐，用闪闪发光的眼睛听着他所说的一切。当他发现他不可抗拒时，她自己也变得不可抗拒。

At the end of the first dance, Captain Tilney came towards them again, and, much to Catherine’s dissatisfaction, pulled his brother away. They retired whispering together; and, though her delicate sensibility did not take immediate alarm, and lay it down as fact, that Captain Tilney must have heard some malevolent misrepresentation of her, which he now hastened to communicate to his brother, in the hope of separating them forever, she could not have her partner conveyed from her sight without very uneasy sensations. Her suspense was of full five minutes’ duration; and she was beginning to think it a very long quarter of an hour, when they both returned, and an explanation was given, by Henry’s requesting to know if she thought her friend, Miss Thorpe, would have any objection to dancing, as his brother would be most happy to be introduced to her. Catherine, without hesitation, replied that she was very sure Miss Thorpe did not mean to dance at all. The cruel reply was passed on to the other, and he immediately walked away.
第一支舞结束时，蒂尔尼队长再次向他们走来，并把他的兄弟拉走了，这让凯瑟琳非常不满。他们一边窃窃私语一边退了出去。尽管她敏感的情感没有立即引起警觉，并把它当作事实，但蒂尔尼船长一定听到了一些关于她的恶意歪曲，他现在急忙将其传达给他的兄弟，希望将他们永远分开，她当她的伴侣离开她的视线时，她不可能不感到非常不安。她的悬念持续了整整五分钟。当他们都回来时，她开始认为这是一个很长的一刻钟，亨利要求知道她是否认为她的朋友索普小姐会反对跳舞，因为他的兄弟，并给出了解释会很高兴被介绍给她。凯瑟琳毫不犹豫地回答说，她非常确定索普小姐根本没有跳舞的意思。残酷的回答传达给了对方，对方立刻就走开了。

‘Your brother will not mind it, I know,’ said she, ‘because I heard him say before that he hated dancing; but it was very good-natured in him to think of it. I suppose he saw Isabella sitting down, and fancied she might wish for a partner; but he is quite mistaken, for she would not dance upon any account in the world.’
“我知道，你哥哥不会介意的，”她说，“因为我以前听他说过他讨厌跳舞；但我知道他讨厌跳舞。”但他一想到这件事就心地善良。我想他看到伊莎贝拉坐下来，觉得她可能想要一个舞伴。但他完全错了，因为无论如何她都不会跳舞。

Henry smiled, and said, ‘How very little trouble it can give you to understand the motive of other people’s actions.’
亨利微笑着说：“了解别人行为的动机并不会给你带来多少麻烦。”

‘Why? What do you mean?’
'为什么？你是什​​么意思？'

‘With you, it is not, How is such a one likely to be influenced, What is the inducement most likely to act upon such a person’s feelings, age, situation, and probable habits of life considered — but, How should I be influenced, What would be my inducement in acting so and so?’
“对你来说，问题不是这样的人如何可能受到影响，最有可能根据这样的人的感受、年龄、处境和可能的生活习惯采取行动的诱因是什么——而是，我应该如何受到影响，我采取某某行动的动机是什么？

‘I do not understand you.’
'我不懂你。'

‘Then we are on very unequal terms, for I understand you perfectly well.’
“那么我们的关系就非常不平等，因为我非常理解你。”

‘Me? Yes; I cannot speak well enough to be unintelligible.’
'我？是的;我说话不够好，以至于难以理解。

‘Bravo! An excellent satire on modern language.’
‘太棒了！对现代语言的精彩讽刺。”

‘But pray tell me what you mean.’
“但是请告诉我你的意思。”

‘Shall I indeed? Do you really desire it? But you are not aware of the consequences; it will involve you in a very cruel embarrassment, and certainly bring on a disagreement between us.
‘我真的可以吗？你真的渴望它吗？但你不知道后果；这会让你陷入非常残酷的尴尬之中，并且肯定会引起我们之间的分歧。

‘No, no; it shall not do either; I am not afraid.’
'不，不;两者都不会；我不害怕。'

‘Well, then, I only meant that your attributing my brother’s wish of dancing with Miss Thorpe to good nature alone convinced me of your being superior in good nature yourself to all the rest of the world.’
“好吧，那么，我的意思只是说，你把我哥哥想要和索普小姐跳舞的愿望仅仅归因于善良的本性，这让我相信你自己的善良本性比世界上其他人都优越。”

Catherine blushed and disclaimed, and the gentleman’s predictions were verified. There was a something, however, in his words which repaid her for the pain of confusion; and that something occupied her mind so much that she drew back for some time, forgetting to speak or to listen, and almost forgetting where she was; till, roused by the voice of Isabella, she looked up and saw her with Captain Tilney preparing to give them hands across.
凯瑟琳红着脸否认，绅士的预言得到了验证。然而，他的话中却有一种东西补偿了她因困惑而带来的痛苦。有件事占据了她的注意力，以至于她退缩了一段时间，忘记了说话或听着，几乎忘记了自己在哪里。直到被伊莎贝拉的声音惊醒，她抬起头，看到她和蒂尔尼船长正准备向他们伸出双手。

Isabella shrugged her shoulders and smiled, the only explanation of this extraordinary change which could at that time be given; but as it was not quite enough for Catherine’s comprehension, she spoke her astonishment in very plain terms to her partner.
伊莎贝拉耸耸肩，微笑着，这是当时对这种非凡变化的唯一解释。但凯瑟琳的理解还不够，所以她用非常简单的语言向她的伴侣讲述了她的惊讶。

‘I cannot think how it could happen! Isabella was so determined not to dance.’
‘我无法想象这怎么会发生！伊莎贝拉坚决不跳舞。

‘And did Isabella never change her mind before?’
“伊莎贝拉以前从来没有改变过主意吗？”

‘Oh! But, because — And your brother! After what you told him from me, how could he think of going to ask her?’
'哦！但是，因为——还有你的兄弟！你跟我说了这些之后，他怎么会想到去问她呢？

‘I cannot take surprise to myself on that head. You bid me be surprised on your friend’s account, and therefore I am; but as for my brother, his conduct in the business, I must own, has been no more than I believed him perfectly equal to. The fairness of your friend was an open attraction; her firmness, you know, could only be understood by yourself.’
“在这一点上我不能感到惊讶。你让我对你朋友的事感到惊讶，因此我感到惊讶；但至于我的兄弟，我必须承认，他在生意上的表现并不比我相信的他完全一样。你朋友的公正是一种公开的吸引力；她的坚定，你知道，只有你自己才能理解。

‘You are laughing; but, I assure you, Isabella is very firm in general.’
‘你在笑；但是，我向你保证，伊莎贝拉总体上非常坚定。”

‘It is as much as should be said of anyone. To be always firm must be to be often obstinate. When properly to relax is the trial of judgment; and, without reference to my brother, I really think Miss Thorpe has by no means chosen ill in fixing on the present hour.’
“对于任何人来说，这都是应该说的。要始终坚定，就必须常常固执。何时适当放松是判断力的考验；而且，不提我哥哥，我真的认为索普小姐选择现在的时间绝非错误。

The friends were not able to get together for any confidential discourse till all the dancing was over; but then, as they walked about the room arm in arm, Isabella thus explained herself: ‘I do not wonder at your surprise; and I am really fatigued to death. He is such a rattle! Amusing enough, if my mind had been disengaged; but I would have given the world to sit still.’
直到所有的舞蹈结束后，朋友们才能够聚在一起进行任何保密的谈话。但随后，当他们手挽着手在房间里走来走去时，伊莎贝拉这样解释自己：我真的累死了。他真是个吵闹的人！如果我的思想没有被打扰的话，这已经足够有趣了。但我会让世界安静地坐着。

‘Then why did not you?’
“那你为什么不呢？”

‘Oh! My dear! It would have looked so particular; and you know how I abhor doing that. I refused him as long as I possibly could, but he would take no denial. You have no idea how he pressed me. I begged him to excuse me, and get some other partner — but no, not he; after aspiring to my hand, there was nobody else in the room he could bear to think of; and it was not that he wanted merely to dance, he wanted to be with me. Oh! Such nonsense! I told him he had taken a very unlikely way to prevail upon me; for, of all things in the world, I hated fine speeches and compliments; and so — and so then I found there would be no peace if I did not stand up. Besides, I thought Mrs. Hughes, who introduced him, might take it ill if I did not: and your dear brother, I am sure he would have been miserable if I had sat down the whole evening. I am so glad it is over! My spirits are quite jaded with listening to his nonsense: and then, being such a smart young fellow, I saw every eye was upon us.’
'哦！亲爱的！它看起来会很特别；你知道我多么厌恶这样做。我尽可能地拒绝他，但他不会接受拒绝。你不知道他是如何逼迫我的。我恳求他原谅我，找其他的搭档——但不，不是他；他是我的搭档。当他渴望得到我的手之后，房间里就再也没有他能想到的人了。他不仅仅是想跳舞，他想和我在一起。哦！真是胡说八道！我告诉他，他采取了一种非常不可能的方式来说服我。因为，在世界上所有的事情中，我最讨厌的是漂亮的演讲和赞美。所以——然后我发现，如果我不站起来，就不会平静。此外，我想，如果我不这样做，介绍他的休斯太太可能会感到不舒服；而你亲爱的兄弟，我相信如果我整个晚上都坐着，他会很痛苦。我很高兴一切都结束了！我的精神已经厌倦了听他的胡言乱语：然后，作为一个如此聪明的年轻人，我看到每个人的目光都集中在我们身上。

‘He is very handsome indeed.’
“他确实很帅。”

‘Handsome! Yes, I suppose he may. I dare say people would admire him in general; but he is not at all in my style of beauty. I hate a florid complexion and dark eyes in a man. However, he is very well. Amazingly conceited, I am sure. I took him down several times, you know, in my way.’
'英俊的！是的，我想他可能会。我敢说人们总体上都会钦佩他。但他完全不符合我的审美风格。我讨厌脸色红润、眼睛黑黑的男人。不过，他的情况很好。我敢肯定，他非常自负。我用我的方式击倒了他好几次。

When the young ladies next met, they had a far more interesting subject to discuss. James Morland’s second letter was then received, and the kind intentions of his father fully explained. A living, of which Mr. Morland was himself patron and incumbent, of about four hundred pounds yearly value, was to be resigned to his son as soon as he should be old enough to take it; no trifling deduction from the family income, no niggardly assignment to one of ten children. An estate of at least equal value, moreover, was assured as his future inheritance.
当年轻女士们下次见面时，她们有一个更有趣的话题要讨论。随后收到了詹姆斯·莫兰的第二封信，充分说明了父亲的良苦用心。莫兰先生本人是他的赞助人和现任者，每年价值约四百英镑的生活费，一旦他的儿子长大到可以接受的时候，他就将其交给他。没有从家庭收入中进行一点小扣，也没有吝啬地分配给十个孩子中的一个。此外，他还保证了一份至少等值的遗产作为他未来的遗产。

James expressed himself on the occasion with becoming gratitude; and the necessity of waiting between two and three years before they could marry, being, however unwelcome, no more than he had expected, was borne by him without discontent. Catherine, whose expectations had been as unfixed as her ideas of her father’s income, and whose judgment was now entirely led by her brother, felt equally well satisfied, and heartily congratulated Isabella on having everything so pleasantly settled.
詹姆斯在这个场合表达了自己的感激之情。他们必须等待两到三年才能结婚，尽管不受欢迎，但并不比他预期的要多，他毫无不满地忍受了。凯瑟琳的期望就像她对父亲收入的想法一样不确定，现在她的判断完全由她的兄弟主导，她感到同样满意，并衷心祝贺伊莎贝拉让一切都如此愉快地解决了。

‘It is very charming indeed,’ said Isabella, with a grave face. ‘Mr. Morland has behaved vastly handsome indeed,’ said the gentle Mrs. Thorpe, looking anxiously at her daughter. ‘I only wish I could do as much. One could not expect more from him, you know. If he finds he can do more by and by, I dare say he will, for I am sure he must be an excellent good-hearted man. Four hundred is but a small income to begin on indeed, but your wishes, my dear Isabella, are so moderate, you do not consider how little you ever want, my dear.’
“确实很迷人，”伊莎贝拉一脸严肃地说。 '先生。莫兰确实表现得很英俊。”温柔的索普夫人焦急地看着女儿说道。 “我只希望我能做同样多的事情。你知道，人们不能对他抱有更多的期望。如果他发现自己可以做得更多，我敢说他会的，因为我相信他一定是一个优秀的好心人。四百美元确实只是一笔很小的收入，但是你的愿望，我亲爱的伊莎贝拉，是如此温和，你没有考虑过你想要的有多么少，亲爱的。

‘It is not on my own account I wish for more; but I cannot bear to be the means of injuring my dear Morland, making him sit down upon an income hardly enough to find one in the common necessaries of life. For myself, it is nothing; I never think of myself.’
“我并不是为了我自己而希望得到更多；而是为了我自己。”但我无法忍受成为伤害我亲爱的莫兰的手段，让他只能靠着一份几乎不足以满足日常生活必需品的收入。对于我自己来说，这不算什么；我从来不考虑自己。

‘I know you never do, my dear; and you will always find your reward in the affection it makes everybody feel for you. There never was a young woman so beloved as you are by everybody that knows you; and I dare say when Mr. Morland sees you, my dear child — but do not let us distress our dear Catherine by talking of such things. Mr. Morland has behaved so very handsome, you know. I always heard he was a most excellent man; and you know, my dear, we are not to suppose but what, if you had had a suitable fortune, he would have come down with something more, for I am sure he must be a most liberal-minded man.’
“我知道你永远不会这样做，亲爱的；你总会在每个人对你的感情中找到你的回报。从来没有一个年轻女子像你一样受到所有认识你的人的喜爱。我敢说，当莫兰先生见到你时，我亲爱的孩子——但不要让我们谈论这些事情让我们亲爱的凯瑟琳感到难过。你知道，莫兰先生表现得很英俊。我一直听说他是一个非常优秀的人；你知道，亲爱的，我们不会假设，如果你有足够的财富，他会得到更多的东西，因为我确信他一定是一个思想最开明的人。

‘Nobody can think better of Mr. Morland than I do, I am sure. But everybody has their failing, you know, and everybody has a right to do what they like with their own money.’ Catherine was hurt by these insinuations. ‘I am very sure,’ said she, ‘that my father has promised to do as much as he can afford.’
“我确信，没有人比我更了解莫兰先生。但你知道，每个人都有自己的缺点，每个人都有权用自己的钱做自己喜欢做的​​事。”凯瑟琳被这些暗示所伤害。 “我非常确定，”她说，“我父亲已经承诺会尽其所能。”

Isabella recollected herself. ‘As to that, my sweet Catherine, there cannot be a doubt, and you know me well enough to be sure that a much smaller income would satisfy me. It is not the want of more money that makes me just at present a little out of spirits; I hate money; and if our union could take place now upon only fifty pounds a year, I should not have a wish unsatisfied. Ah! my Catherine, you have found me out. There’s the sting. The long, long, endless two years and half that are to pass before your brother can hold the living.’
伊莎贝拉回想起自己。 “至于这一点，我亲爱的凯瑟琳，这是毫无疑问的，而且你很了解我，确信少得多的收入就能满足我。并不是因为需要更多的钱，才让我现在有点精神不振；而是因为缺乏更多的钱。我讨厌金钱；如果我们的结合现在只需每年五十英镑就能实现，我的愿望就不会落空。啊!我的凯瑟琳，你发现我了。有刺痛。在你的兄弟能够养活活人之前，还需要漫长、漫长、无尽的两年半的时间。

‘Yes, yes, my darling Isabella,’ said Mrs. Thorpe, ‘we perfectly see into your heart. You have no disguise. We perfectly understand the present vexation; and everybody must love you the better for such a noble honest affection.’
“是的，是的，我亲爱的伊莎贝拉，”索普夫人说，“我们完全了解你的内心。”你没有任何伪装。我们完全理解目前的烦恼；每个人都一定会因为如此高尚而诚实的感情而更加爱你。

Catherine’s uncomfortable feelings began to lessen. She endeavoured to believe that the delay of the marriage was the only source of Isabella’s regret; and when she saw her at their next interview as cheerful and amiable as ever, endeavoured to forget that she had for a minute thought otherwise. James soon followed his letter, and was received with the most gratifying kindness.
凯瑟琳的不舒服感开始减轻。她极力相信推迟结婚是伊莎贝拉感到遗憾的唯一原因。当她在下一次会面中看到她一如既往地开朗而和蔼可亲时，她努力忘记自己曾经有过不同的想法。詹姆斯很快就收到了他的信，并受到了最令人欣慰的善意接待。

Chapter 17
第17章

The Allens had now entered on the sixth week of their stay in Bath; and whether it should be the last was for some time a question, to which Catherine listened with a beating heart. To have her acquaintance with the Tilneys end so soon was an evil which nothing could counterbalance. Her whole happiness seemed at stake, while the affair was in suspense, and everything secured when it was determined that the lodgings should be taken for another fortnight. What this additional fortnight was to produce to her beyond the pleasure of sometimes seeing Henry Tilney made but a small part of Catherine’s speculation. Once or twice indeed, since James’s engagement had taught her what could be done, she had got so far as to indulge in a secret ‘perhaps,’ but in general the felicity of being with him for the present bounded her views: the present was now comprised in another three weeks, and her happiness being certain for that period, the rest of her life was at such a distance as to excite but little interest. In the course of the morning which saw this business arranged, she visited Miss Tilney, and poured forth her joyful feelings. It was doomed to be a day of trial. No sooner had she expressed her delight in Mr. Allen’s lengthened stay than Miss Tilney told her of her father’s having just determined upon quitting Bath by the end of another week. Here was a blow! The past suspense of the morning had been ease and quiet to the present disappointment. Catherine’s countenance fell, and in a voice of most sincere concern she echoed Miss Tilney’s concluding words, ‘By the end of another week!’
艾伦夫妇在巴斯逗留已进入第六周。凯瑟琳听着这个问题，心里一直在跳动。她这么快就知道了蒂尔尼一家的结局，这对她来说是一种无可抗拒的不幸。她的全部幸福似乎都岌岌可危，而这件事却悬而未决，当决定再租两周的住处时，一切都安全了。这额外的两周给她带来的不仅仅是有时看到亨利·蒂尔尼做出凯瑟琳猜测的一小部分的乐趣。确实有一两次，自从詹姆斯的订婚教会了她可以做些什么，她竟然沉迷于一个“也许”的秘密，但总的来说，目前与他在一起的幸福限制了她的观点：现在是现在还有三个星期，她在那段时间的幸福是确定的，但她的余生却如此遥远，以致于她没有什么兴趣。在安排好这件事的那天早上，她拜访了蒂尔尼小姐，倾诉了她的喜悦之情。这注定是审判的一天。她刚对艾伦先生延长逗留表示高兴，蒂尔尼小姐就告诉她，她父亲刚刚决定在下一个周末离开巴斯。这是一个打击！早上过去的悬念一直是轻松而安静的，但现在却令人失望。凯瑟琳的脸色沉了下来，她用一种最真诚的关心的声音重复了蒂尔尼小姐的结束语：“再过一个星期！”

‘Yes, my father can seldom be prevailed on to give the waters what I think a fair trial. He has been disappointed of some friends’ arrival whom he expected to meet here, and as he is now pretty well, is in a hurry to get home.’
“是的，我很少能说服我的父亲对这些水域进行我认为公平的审判。他对一些原本希望在这里见到的朋友的到来感到失望，而且由于他现在身体状况良好，所以急着回家。

‘I am very sorry for it,’ said Catherine dejectedly; ‘if I had known this before — ‘
“我对此感到非常抱歉，”凯瑟琳沮丧地说。 “如果我早知道这一点——”

‘Perhaps,’ said Miss Tilney in an embarrassed manner, ‘you would be so good — it would make me very happy if — ‘
“也许，”蒂尔尼小姐不好意思地说，“你会很好的——这会让我很高兴，如果——”

The entrance of her father put a stop to the civility, which Catherine was beginning to hope might introduce a desire of their corresponding. After addressing her with his usual politeness, he turned to his daughter and said, ‘Well, Eleanor, may I congratulate you on being successful in your application to your fair friend?’
她父亲的到来终止了这种礼貌，凯瑟琳开始希望这可能会引起他们相应的愿望。在以一贯的礼貌与她交谈后，他转向他的女儿说：“好吧，埃莉诺，我可以祝贺你成功申请到你的好朋友吗？”

‘I was just beginning to make the request, sir, as you came in.’
“先生，您进来时，我正要提出要求。”

‘Well, proceed by all means. I know how much your heart is in it. My daughter, Miss Morland,’ he continued, without leaving his daughter time to speak, ‘has been forming a very bold wish. We leave Bath, as she has perhaps told you, on Saturday se’nnight. A letter from my steward tells me that my presence is wanted at home; and being disappointed in my hope of seeing the Marquis of Longtown and General Courteney here, some of my very old friends, there is nothing to detain me longer in Bath. And could we carry our selfish point with you, we should leave it without a single regret. Can you, in short, be prevailed on to quit this scene of public triumph and oblige your friend Eleanor with your company in Gloucestershire? I am almost ashamed to make the request, though its presumption would certainly appear greater to every creature in Bath than yourself. Modesty such as yours — but not for the world would I pain it by open praise. If you can be induced to honour us with a visit, you will make us happy beyond expression. ‘Tis true, we can offer you nothing like the gaieties of this lively place; we can tempt you neither by amusement nor splendour, for our mode of living, as you see, is plain and unpretending; yet no endeavours shall be wanting on our side to make Northanger Abbey not wholly disagreeable.’
‘好吧，无论如何，继续吧。我知道你的心有多少。我的女儿，莫兰小姐，”他继续说道，没有给女儿说话的时间，“一直在形成一个非常大胆的愿望。正如她可能告诉你的那样，我们周六晚上离开巴斯。我的管家的一封信告诉我，家里需要我的到来；我对在这里见到朗敦侯爵和考特尼将军这些我的老朋友的希望感到失望，没有什么可以让我在巴斯停留更长时间了。如果我们能带着我们的自私观点与你同行，我们就应该毫无遗憾地离开它。简而言之，你能被说服退出这个公众胜利的场面，并让你的朋友埃莉诺与你在格洛斯特郡的公司合作吗？我几乎羞于提出这个要求，尽管这个假设对巴斯的每个生物来说肯定比你更重要。像你这样的谦虚——但我不会因为公开的赞美而感到痛苦。如果您能受邀来拜访我们，您将使我们高兴得难以言表。确实，我们无法为您提供与这个热闹地方的欢乐相比的任何东西；我们既不能用娱乐也不能用华丽来诱惑你，因为正如你所见，我们的生活方式是朴实无华的。但我们会不遗余力地让诺桑觉寺变得不那么令人讨厌。”

Northanger Abbey! These were thrilling words, and wound up Catherine’s feelings to the highest point of ecstasy. Her grateful and gratified heart could hardly restrain its expressions within the language of tolerable calmness. To receive so flattering an invitation! To have her company so warmly solicited! Everything honourable and soothing, every present enjoyment, and every future hope was contained in it; and her acceptance, with only the saving clause of Papa and Mamma’s approbation, was eagerly given. ‘I will write home directly,’ said she, ‘and if they do not object, as I dare say they will not — ‘
诺桑觉寺！这些话激动人心，让凯瑟琳的心情达到了狂喜的最高点。她感激和欣慰的心难以抑制地用平静的语言表达出来。收到如此令人受宠若惊的邀请！竟有她的公司如此热情地招揽！一切尊贵和安慰，一切当下的享受，一切未来的希望，都包含在其中；她热切地接受了，只附加了爸爸和妈妈认可的保留条款。 “我会直接写信回家，”她说，“如果他们不反对，我敢说他们不会——”

General Tilney was not less sanguine, having already waited on her excellent friends in Pulteney Street, and obtained their sanction of his wishes. ‘Since they can consent to part with you,’ said he, ‘we may expect philosophy from all the world.’
蒂尔尼将军也同样乐观，她已经在普尔特尼街等候了她的优秀朋友，并得到了他们对他愿望的认可。 “既然他们能同意与你分开，”他说，“我们就可以期待来自全世界的哲学。”

Miss Tilney was earnest, though gentle, in her secondary civilities, and the affair became in a few minutes as nearly settled as this necessary reference to Fullerton would allow.
蒂尔尼小姐虽然温柔，但在次要的礼貌中却很认真，几分钟后，这件事就几乎解决了，因为必须提及富勒顿。

The circumstances of the morning had led Catherine’s feelings through the varieties of suspense, security, and disappointment; but they were now safely lodged in perfect bliss; and with spirits elated to rapture, with Henry at her heart, and Northanger Abbey on her lips, she hurried home to write her letter. Mr. and Mrs. Morland, relying on the discretion of the friends to whom they had already entrusted their daughter, felt no doubt of the propriety of an acquaintance which had been formed under their eye, and sent therefore by return of post their ready consent to her visit in Gloucestershire. This indulgence, though not more than Catherine had hoped for, completed her conviction of being favoured beyond every other human creature, in friends and fortune, circumstance and chance. Everything seemed to cooperate for her advantage. By the kindness of her first friends, the Allens, she had been introduced into scenes where pleasures of every kind had met her. Her feelings, her preferences, had each known the happiness of a return. Wherever she felt attachment, she had been able to create it. The affection of Isabella was to be secured to her in a sister. The Tilneys, they, by whom, above all, she desired to be favourably thought of, outstripped even her wishes in the flattering measures by which their intimacy was to be continued. She was to be their chosen visitor, she was to be for weeks under the same roof with the person whose society she mostly prized — and, in addition to all the rest, this roof was to be the roof of an abbey! Her passion for ancient edifices was next in degree to her passion for Henry Tilney — and castles and abbeys made usually the charm of those reveries which his image did not fill. To see and explore either the ramparts and keep of the one, or the cloisters of the other, had been for many weeks a darling wish, though to be more than the visitor of an hour had seemed too nearly impossible for desire. And yet, this was to happen. With all the chances against her of house, hall, place, park, court, and cottage, Northanger turned up an abbey, and she was to be its inhabitant. Its long, damp passages, its narrow cells and ruined chapel, were to be within her daily reach, and she could not entirely subdue the hope of some traditional legends, some awful memorials of an injured and ill-fated nun.
早上的情况让凯瑟琳的心情充满了悬念、安全感和失望。但他们现在安全地生活在完美的幸福之中。她怀着欣喜若狂的心情，心里念叨着亨利，嘴里念叨着诺桑觉寺，赶紧回家写信。莫兰先生和夫人根据他们已经将女儿托付给他们的朋友们的判断力，对在他们眼皮子底下结识的熟人的适当性深信不疑，因此通过回邮方式表达了他们的同意。她访问格洛斯特郡。这种纵容虽然没有超出凯瑟琳的期望，但却使她更加确信自己在朋友、财富、环境和机会方面都比其他人类更受青睐。一切似乎都在为她有利。由于她最初的朋友艾伦一家的好意，她被带入了各种快乐的场景。她的感情，她的喜好，都曾体会过回归的幸福。无论她在哪里感到依恋，她都能创造出它。伊莎贝拉的感情将通过妹妹得到保障。蒂尔尼夫妇，她首先希望得到他们的好感，甚至超出了她的愿望，在维持他们的亲密关系时采取了奉承的措施。她将成为他们选定的访客，她将与她最珍视的人在同一屋檐下呆上几个星期——而且，除了所有其他的之外，这个屋顶将是一座修道院的屋顶！她对古代建筑的热情仅次于她对亨利·蒂尔尼的热情——城堡和修道院通常会让人产生他的形象无法填补的遐想的魅力。 参观和探索其中一个的城墙和要塞，或者另一个的回廊，几个星期以来一直是一个可爱的愿望，尽管超过一小时的访客似乎几乎是不可能实现的愿望。然而，这一切还是发生了。尽管房子、大厅、地方、公园、庭院和小屋都对她不利，诺桑觉却变成了一座修道院，而她将成为它的居民。漫长而潮湿的通道、狭窄的牢房和破败的教堂，她每天都可以到达，但她无法完全抑制对一些传统传说的希望，一些对受伤和不幸的修女的可怕纪念。

It was wonderful that her friends should seem so little elated by the possession of such a home, that the consciousness of it should be so meekly borne. The power of early habit only could account for it. A distinction to which they had been born gave no pride. Their superiority of abode was no more to them than their superiority of person.
令人惊奇的是，她的朋友们似乎对拥有这样一个家并不感到高兴，以至于她的意识如此温顺地接受。只有早期习惯的力量才能解释这一点。他们与生俱来的显赫地位并不值得骄傲。对他们来说，居住地的优越性并不比他们的人格优越性更重要。

Many were the inquiries she was eager to make of Miss Tilney; but so active were her thoughts, that when these inquiries were answered, she was hardly more assured than before, of Northanger Abbey having been a richly endowed convent at the time of the Reformation, of its having fallen into the hands of an ancestor of the Tilneys on its dissolution, of a large portion of the ancient building still making a part of the present dwelling although the rest was decayed, or of its standing low in a valley, sheltered from the north and east by rising woods of oak.
她急于向蒂尔尼小姐询问很多问题。但她的想法是如此活跃，以至于当这些询问得到答复时，她几乎比以前更加确信诺桑觉寺在宗教改革时期是一座资源丰富的修道院，它已经落入了一位祖先的手中。蒂尔尼斯解散时，古建筑的很大一部分仍然是现在住宅的一部分，尽管其余部分已经腐烂，或者它矗立在山谷中，被高耸的橡树林遮挡着北部和东部。

Chapter 18
第18章

With a mind thus full of happiness, Catherine was hardly aware that two or three days had passed away, without her seeing Isabella for more than a few minutes together. She began first to be sensible of this, and to sigh for her conversation, as she walked along the pump-room one morning, by Mrs. Allen’s side, without anything to say or to hear; and scarcely had she felt a five minutes’ longing of friendship, before the object of it appeared, and inviting her to a secret conference, led the way to a seat. ‘This is my favourite place,’ said she as they sat down on a bench between the doors, which commanded a tolerable view of everybody entering at either; ‘it is so out of the way.’
凯瑟琳的心里充满了幸福，她几乎没有意识到已经过去了两三天，而她和伊莎贝拉在一起的时间也没有超过几分钟。一天早上，当她在艾伦夫人身边沿着水泵房散步时，她首先开始意识到这一点，并为自己的谈话叹息，没有什么可说的，也没有什么可听的。她刚一感受到五分钟的友谊渴望，目标就出现了，邀请她参加一个秘密会议，并领着她坐到了座位上。 “这是我最喜欢的地方，”当他们在门之间的长凳上坐下时，她说，从那里可以看到每个进入门的人。 “太偏僻了。”

Catherine, observing that Isabella’s eyes were continually bent towards one door or the other, as in eager expectation, and remembering how often she had been falsely accused of being arch, thought the present a fine opportunity for being really so; and therefore gaily said, ‘Do not be uneasy, Isabella, James will soon be here.’
凯瑟琳注意到伊莎贝拉的眼睛不断地转向一扇门或另一扇门，就像热切的期待一样，并记得她经常被错误地指责为拱门，认为现在是一个真正如此的好机会；因此高兴地说：“别担心，伊莎贝拉，詹姆斯很快就到了。”

‘Psha! My dear creature,’ she replied, ‘do not think me such a simpleton as to be always wanting to confine him to my elbow. It would be hideous to be always together; we should be the jest of the place. And so you are going to Northanger! I am amazingly glad of it. It is one of the finest old places in England, I understand. I shall depend upon a most particular description of it.’
‘噗！我亲爱的生物，”她回答道，“别以为我是个傻瓜，总是想把他限制在我的肘部。如果总是在一起，那就太可怕了；我们应该成为这个地方的笑柄。所以你要去诺桑觉！我对此感到非常高兴。据我所知，这是英格兰最好的老地方之一。我将依赖于它的最具体的描述。

‘You shall certainly have the best in my power to give. But who are you looking for? Are your sisters coming?’
‘你肯定会得到我力所能及的最好的东西。但你要找谁？你的姐妹们来吗？

‘I am not looking for anybody. One’s eyes must be somewhere, and you know what a foolish trick I have of fixing mine, when my thoughts are an hundred miles off. I am amazingly absent; I believe I am the most absent creature in the world. Tilney says it is always the case with minds of a certain stamp.’
‘我不是在找任何人。人的眼睛一定在某个地方，你知道当我的思想在一百英里之外时，我会用多么愚蠢的把戏来固定我的眼睛。令人惊讶的是我缺席了；我相信我是世界上最缺席的生物。蒂尔尼说，具有某种印记的头脑总是这样。

‘But I thought, Isabella, you had something in particular to tell me?’
“但我想，伊莎贝拉，你有什么特别要告诉我的事情吗？”

‘Oh! Yes, and so I have. But here is a proof of what I was saying. My poor head, I had quite forgot it. Well, the thing is this: I have just had a letter from John; you can guess the contents.’
'哦！是的，我也是这样。但这是我所说的话的证据。我可怜的脑袋，我已经忘记了。嗯，事情是这样的：我刚刚收到约翰的一封信；你可以猜到内容。

‘No, indeed, I cannot.’
“不，确实，我不能。”

‘My sweet love, do not be so abominably affected. What can he write about, but yourself? You know he is over head and ears in love with you.’
‘我亲爱的，别受到如此可恶的影响。除了你自己，他还能写什么呢？你知道他非常爱你。

‘With me, dear Isabella!’
“和我一起，亲爱的伊莎贝拉！”

‘Nay, my sweetest Catherine, this is being quite absurd! Modesty, and all that, is very well in its way, but really a little common honesty is sometimes quite as becoming. I have no idea of being so overstrained! It is fishing for compliments. His attentions were such as a child must have noticed. And it was but half an hour before he left Bath that you gave him the most positive encouragement. He says so in this letter, says that he as good as made you an offer, and that you received his advances in the kindest way; and now he wants me to urge his suit, and say all manner of pretty things to you. So it is in vain to affect ignorance.’
‘不，我最可爱的凯瑟琳，这太荒谬了！谦虚，以及所有这些，固然很好，但有时，一点点普通的诚实也很合适。我不知道自己会这么紧张！这是在寻求赞美。他的注意力一定是像小孩子一样注意到的。而就在他离开巴斯前的半个小时，你给了他最积极的鼓励。他在这封信中是这么说的，他说他已经向你提出了要约，而你也以最友善的方式接受了他的提议。现在他要我催促他，并对你说各种漂亮的话。因此，影响无知是徒劳的。”

Catherine, with all the earnestness of truth, expressed her astonishment at such a charge, protesting her innocence of every thought of Mr. Thorpe’s being in love with her, and the consequent impossibility of her having ever intended to encourage him. ‘As to any attentions on his side, I do declare, upon my honour, I never was sensible of them for a moment — except just his asking me to dance the first day of his coming. And as to making me an offer, or anything like it, there must be some unaccountable mistake. I could not have misunderstood a thing of that kind, you know! And, as I ever wish to be believed, I solemnly protest that no syllable of such a nature ever passed between us. The last half hour before he went away! It must be all and completely a mistake — for I did not see him once that whole morning.’
凯瑟琳真诚地表达了她对这样的指控的惊讶，并抗议说她对索普先生爱上她的每一个想法都是无辜的，因此她不可能有意鼓励他。 “至于他那边的任何关注，我以我的名誉担保，我从来没有意识到过——除了他来的第一天邀请我跳舞。至于向我提出要约或类似的事情，一定存在一些无法解释的错误。我不可能误解这种事，你知道！而且，正如我一直希望别人相信的那样，我郑重声明，我们之间从未说过任何此类性质的音节。走之前的最后半个小时！这肯定是一个彻底的错误——因为整个早上我都没有见到他一次。

‘But that you certainly did, for you spent the whole morning in Edgar’s Buildings — it was the day your father’s consent came — and I am pretty sure that you and John were alone in the parlour some time before you left the house.’
“但你确实做到了，因为你整个早上都在埃德加的大楼里度过——那天是你父亲同意的日子——我很确定在你离开家之前一段时间，你和约翰独自一人在客厅里。”

‘Are you? Well, if you say it, it was so, I dare say — but for the life of me, I cannot recollect it. I do remember now being with you, and seeing him as well as the rest — but that we were ever alone for five minutes — However, it is not worth arguing about, for whatever might pass on his side, you must be convinced, by my having no recollection of it, that I never thought, nor expected, nor wished for anything of the kind from him. I am excessively concerned that he should have any regard for me — but indeed it has been quite unintentional on my side; I never had the smallest idea of it. Pray undeceive him as soon as you can, and tell him I beg his pardon — that is — I do not know what I ought to say — but make him understand what I mean, in the properest way. I would not speak disrespectfully of a brother of yours, Isabella, I am sure; but you know very well that if I could think of one man more than another — he is not the person.’ Isabella was silent. ‘My dear friend, you must not be angry with me. I cannot suppose your brother cares so very much about me. And, you know, we shall still be sisters.’
'你是？好吧，如果你这么说，我敢说确实如此——但我无论如何也想不起来了。我确实记得现在和你在一起，看到了他以及其他人——但我们曾经单独呆过五分钟——然而，这不值得争论，因为无论他那边发生什么，你都必须相信，我不记得了，我从来没有想过、没有期望、也没有希望从他那里得到任何类似的东西。我非常担心他会尊重我——但事实上，这对我来说是无意的。我对此从来没有丝毫的想法。尽快祈祷不要欺骗他，并告诉他我请求他的原谅——也就是说——我不知道我应该说什么——但让他以最恰当的方式理解我的意思。我相信，伊莎贝拉，我不会对你的兄弟说不敬的话。但你很清楚，如果我能比另一个人更容易想到一个人——他就不是那个人了。”伊莎贝拉沉默了。 ‘我亲爱的朋友，你千万不要生我的气。我想不到你哥哥这么关心我。而且，你知道，我们仍然是姐妹。”

‘Yes, yes’ (with a blush), ‘there are more ways than one of our being sisters. But where am I wandering to? Well, my dear Catherine, the case seems to be that you are determined against poor John — is not it so?’
“是的，是的”（脸红了），“除了我们成为姐妹之外，还有更多的方式。”但我到底要漂泊到哪里去呢？好吧，我亲爱的凯瑟琳，看来你决心反对可怜的约翰——不是吗？

‘I certainly cannot return his affection, and as certainly never meant to encourage it.’
“我当然无法回报他的感情，而且当然也无意鼓励这种感情。”

‘Since that is the case, I am sure I shall not tease you any further. John desired me to speak to you on the subject, and therefore I have. But I confess, as soon as I read his letter, I thought it a very foolish, imprudent business, and not likely to promote the good of either; for what were you to live upon, supposing you came together? You have both of you something, to be sure, but it is not a trifle that will support a family nowadays; and after all that romancers may say, there is no doing without money. I only wonder John could think of it; he could not have received my last.’
“既然如此，那我就不再捉弄你了。”约翰希望我就这个话题和你谈谈，所以我就这么做了。但我承认，当我读到他的信时，我认为这是一件非常愚蠢、轻率的事情，而且不太可能促进双方的利益。如果你们在一起的话，你们靠什么生活呢？诚然，你们都有一些东西，但现在这些东西已经不能支撑一个家庭了。不管怎么说，浪漫主义者可能会说，没有钱就寸步难行。我只是奇怪约翰能想到这一点；他不可能收到我的最后一份。

‘You do acquit me, then, of anything wrong? — You are convinced that I never meant to deceive your brother, never suspected him of liking me till this moment?’
“那么，你确实开释了我的任何错误吗？ ——你确信我从来没有打算欺骗你的兄弟，直到这一刻才怀疑他喜欢我？

‘Oh! As to that,’ answered Isabella laughingly, ‘I do not pretend to determine what your thoughts and designs in time past may have been. All that is best known to yourself. A little harmless flirtation or so will occur, and one is often drawn on to give more encouragement than one wishes to stand by. But you may be assured that I am the last person in the world to judge you severely. All those things should be allowed for in youth and high spirits. What one means one day, you know, one may not mean the next. Circumstances change, opinions alter.’
'哦！至于这一点，”伊莎贝拉笑着回答，“我并不假装能确定你过去的想法和计划。一切只有你自己最清楚。会发生一些无害的调情，人们常常会被吸引去给予比人们愿意袖手旁观更多的鼓励。但你可以放心，我是世界上最不会严厉评判你的人。所有这些事情都应该被年轻人和精神饱满的人所允许。你知道，某一天的意义，可能并不代表下一天的意义。情况变了，观点也变了。”

‘But my opinion of your brother never did alter; it was always the same. You are describing what never happened.’
“但我对你哥哥的看法从未改变；总是一样的。你正在描述从未发生过的事情。

‘My dearest Catherine,’ continued the other without at all listening to her, ‘I would not for all the world be the means of hurrying you into an engagement before you knew what you were about. I do not think anything would justify me in wishing you to sacrifice all your happiness merely to oblige my brother, because he is my brother, and who perhaps after all, you know, might be just as happy without you, for people seldom know what they would be at, young men especially, they are so amazingly changeable and inconstant. What I say is, why should a brother’s happiness be dearer to me than a friend’s? You know I carry my notions of friendship pretty high. But, above all things, my dear Catherine, do not be in a hurry. Take my word for it, that if you are in too great a hurry, you will certainly live to repent it. Tilney says there is nothing people are so often deceived in as the state of their own affections, and I believe he is very right. Ah! Here he comes; never mind, he will not see us, I am sure.’
“我最亲爱的凯瑟琳，”另一个根本没有听她说话，继续说道，“在你还不知道自己要做什么之前，我绝对不会成为催促你订婚的手段。我不认为有什么理由可以证明我只是为了满足我的兄弟而希望你牺牲你所有的幸福，因为他是我的兄弟，也许，你知道，没有你，他也许会同样幸福，因为人们很少知道什么他们会这样，尤其是年轻人，他们是如此的多变和反复无常。我想说的是，为什么我觉得兄弟的幸福比朋友的幸福更珍贵呢？你知道我对友谊的看法相当高。但是，最重要的是，亲爱的凯瑟琳，不要着急。相信我的话，如果你太着急，你一定会后悔的。蒂尔尼说，人们最容易被自己的情感所欺骗，我相信他是对的。啊!他来了;没关系，我确信他不会看到我们。”

Catherine, looking up, perceived Captain Tilney; and Isabella, earnestly fixing her eye on him as she spoke, soon caught his notice. He approached immediately, and took the seat to which her movements invited him. His first address made Catherine start. Though spoken low, she could distinguish, ‘What! Always to be watched, in person or by proxy!’
凯瑟琳抬起头，看见了蒂尔尼船长。伊莎贝拉一边说话，一边认真地注视着他，很快就引起了他的注意。他立即走近，按照她的动作坐到了座位上。他的第一个讲话让凯瑟琳吃了一惊。虽然声音很小，但她还是听得出来：‘什么！始终受到监视，无论是亲自还是通过代理人！”

‘Psha, nonsense!’ was Isabella’s answer in the same half whisper. ‘Why do you put such things into my head? If I could believe it — my spirit, you know, is pretty independent.’
“呸，胡说八道！”伊莎贝拉同样低声回答道。 ‘你为什么要把这些东西塞进我的脑子里？如果我能相信的话——我的精神，你知道，是相当独立的。

‘I wish your heart were independent. That would be enough for me.’
“我希望你的心是独立的。”这对我来说就足够了。

‘My heart, indeed! What can you have to do with hearts? You men have none of you any hearts.’
‘我的心，确实如此！你和心有什么关系？你们男人没有一颗心。

‘If we have not hearts, we have eyes; and they give us torment enough.’
“如果我们没有心，我们就有眼睛；他们给我们带来的折磨已经够多了。

‘Do they? I am sorry for it; I am sorry they find anything so disagreeable in me. I will look another way. I hope this pleases you’ (turning her back on him); ‘I hope your eyes are not tormented now.’
‘是吗？我对此感到抱歉；我很抱歉他们发现我有如此不愉快的地方。我会换个角度看。我希望这能让你高兴”（转身背对着他）； “我希望你的眼睛现在没有受到折磨。”

‘Never more so; for the edge of a blooming cheek is still in view — at once too much and too little.’
‘再也没有这样过；因为绽放的脸颊的边缘仍然在视野中——既太多又太少。

Catherine heard all this, and quite out of countenance, could listen no longer. Amazed that Isabella could endure it, and jealous for her brother, she rose up, and saying she should join Mrs. Allen, proposed their walking. But for this Isabella showed no inclination. She was so amazingly tired, and it was so odious to parade about the pump-room; and if she moved from her seat she should miss her sisters; she was expecting her sisters every moment; so that her dearest Catherine must excuse her, and must sit quietly down again. But Catherine could be stubborn too; and Mrs. Allen just then coming up to propose their returning home, she joined her and walked out of the pump-room, leaving Isabella still sitting with Captain Tilney. With much uneasiness did she thus leave them. It seemed to her that Captain Tilney was falling in love with Isabella, and Isabella unconsciously encouraging him; unconsciously it must be, for Isabella’s attachment to James was as certain and well acknowledged as her engagement. To doubt her truth or good intentions was impossible; and yet, during the whole of their conversation her manner had been odd. She wished Isabella had talked more like her usual self, and not so much about money, and had not looked so well pleased at the sight of Captain Tilney. How strange that she should not perceive his admiration! Catherine longed to give her a hint of it, to put her on her guard, and prevent all the pain which her too lively behaviour might otherwise create both for him and her brother.
凯瑟琳听到这一切，脸色难看，再也听不下去了。伊莎贝拉惊讶于她能忍受这一切，又嫉妒她的哥哥，她站起来，说她应该和艾伦夫人一起，提议他们一起散步。但伊莎贝拉对此毫无兴趣。她实在是太累了，而且在水泵房里走来走去真是令人厌恶。如果她离开座位，她就会想念她的姐妹们。她每时每刻都在等待着她的姐妹们。所以她最亲爱的凯瑟琳必须原谅她，并且必须再次安静地坐下来。但凯瑟琳也可能很固执。艾伦夫人正好过来提议他们回家，她也加入了她，走出了泵房，留下伊莎贝拉仍然和蒂尔尼船长坐在一起。她带着非常不安的心情离开了他们。在她看来，蒂尔尼船长正在爱上伊莎贝​​拉，而伊莎贝拉也在不知不觉中鼓励他；不知不觉中，这肯定是这样的，因为伊莎贝拉对詹姆斯的依恋就像她的订婚一样确定且众所周知。怀疑她的真实性或善意是不可能的。然而，在他们的整个谈话过程中，她的态度一直很奇怪。她希望伊莎贝拉说话能像平常一样，不要过多谈论金钱，而且在看到蒂尔尼船长时看起来不要那么高兴。奇怪的是，她居然没有察觉到他的爱慕之情！凯瑟琳渴望给她一点暗示，让她保持警惕，并防止她过于活泼的行为可能给他和她的兄弟带来所有痛苦。

The compliment of John Thorpe’s affection did not make amends for this thoughtlessness in his sister. She was almost as far from believing as from wishing it to be sincere; for she had not forgotten that he could mistake, and his assertion of the offer and of her encouragement convinced her that his mistakes could sometimes be very egregious. In vanity, therefore, she gained but little; her chief profit was in wonder. That he should think it worth his while to fancy himself in love with her was a matter of lively astonishment. Isabella talked of his attentions; she had never been sensible of any; but Isabella had said many things which she hoped had been spoken in haste, and would never be said again; and upon this she was glad to rest altogether for present ease and comfort.
约翰·索普的深情赞美并没有弥补他妹妹的粗心。她既不相信，也不希望它是真诚的。因为她没有忘记他可能会犯错，而他对这个提议的断言和她的鼓励使她相信他的错误有时可能非常严重。因此，在虚荣心上，她收获甚微。她的主要利润在于奇迹。他竟然认为自己花时间去爱她是值得的，这真是令人惊讶不已。伊莎贝拉谈到了他的关注。她从来没有意识到任何事情；但伊莎贝拉说了很多话，她希望这些话是匆忙说出来的，以后再也不会说出来了。至此，她很高兴能彻底休息一下，享受目前的轻松和舒适。

Chapter 19
第19章

A few days passed away, and Catherine, though not allowing herself to suspect her friend, could not help watching her closely. The result of her observations was not agreeable. Isabella seemed an altered creature. When she saw her, indeed, surrounded only by their immediate friends in Edgar’s Buildings or Pulteney Street, her change of manners was so trifling that, had it gone no farther, it might have passed unnoticed. A something of languid indifference, or of that boasted absence of mind which Catherine had never heard of before, would occasionally come across her; but had nothing worse appeared, that might only have spread a new grace and inspired a warmer interest. But when Catherine saw her in public, admitting Captain Tilney’s attentions as readily as they were offered, and allowing him almost an equal share with James in her notice and smiles, the alteration became too positive to be passed over. What could be meant by such unsteady conduct, what her friend could be at, was beyond her comprehension. Isabella could not be aware of the pain she was inflicting; but it was a degree of wilful thoughtlessness which Catherine could not but resent. James was the sufferer. She saw him grave and uneasy; and however careless of his present comfort the woman might be who had given him her heart, to her it was always an object. For poor Captain Tilney too she was greatly concerned. Though his looks did not please her, his name was a passport to her goodwill, and she thought with sincere compassion of his approaching disappointment; for, in spite of what she had believed herself to overhear in the pump-room, his behaviour was so incompatible with a knowledge of Isabella’s engagement that she could not, upon reflection, imagine him aware of it. He might be jealous of her brother as a rival, but if more had seemed implied, the fault must have been in her misapprehension. She wished, by a gentle remonstrance, to remind Isabella of her situation, and make her aware of this double unkindness; but for remonstrance, either opportunity or comprehension was always against her. If able to suggest a hint, Isabella could never understand it. In this distress, the intended departure of the Tilney family became her chief consolation; their journey into Gloucestershire was to take place within a few days, and Captain Tilney’s removal would at least restore peace to every heart but his own. But Captain Tilney had at present no intention of removing; he was not to be of the party to Northanger; he was to continue at Bath. When Catherine knew this, her resolution was directly made. She spoke to Henry Tilney on the subject, regretting his brother’s evident partiality for Miss Thorpe, and entreating him to make known her prior engagement.
几天过去了，凯瑟琳虽然不允许自己怀疑她的朋友，但还是忍不住仔细观察她。她的观察结果并不令人满意。伊莎贝拉似乎变了一个人。事实上，当她在埃德加大楼或普尔特尼街看到她周围只有他们的亲密朋友时，她的举止变化是如此微不足道，如果不走得更远，可能不会被注意到。她偶尔会表现出一种慵懒的冷漠，或者凯瑟琳以前从未听说过的那种自夸的心不在焉的感觉。但如果没有出现更糟糕的情况，这可能只会传播一种新的优雅并激发更热烈的兴趣。但当凯瑟琳在公共场合看到她时，她欣然接受了蒂尔尼船长的关注，并让他与詹姆斯几乎平等地分享了她的注意力和微笑，这种改变变得太积极了，不容忽视。她的朋友如此不稳定的行为意味着什么，她的朋友会做什么，超出了她的理解范围。伊莎贝拉无法意识到她所造成的痛苦。但这种故意的轻率行为让凯瑟琳不得不感到厌恶。詹姆斯就是受害者。她看到他表情严肃、不安。不管这个把心交给了他的女人对他目前的安慰有多不在意，对她来说，这始终是一个目标。对于可怜的蒂尔尼船长，她也非常担心。尽管他的长相并不令她满意，但他的名字却是她善意的通行证，她怀着真诚的同情心想到他即将到来的失望。因为，尽管她相信自己在泵房里无意中听到了这些话，但他的行为与伊莎贝拉订婚的消息是如此不相容，以至于她经过反思，无法想象他意识到了这一点。 他可能会嫉妒她的兄弟作为对手，但如果似乎还有更多的暗示，那么问题一定在于她的误解。她希望通过温和的抗议，提醒伊莎贝拉她的处境，并让她意识到这种双重的不友善。但就抗议而言，机会或理解总是对她不利。即使能够提出暗示，伊莎贝拉也永远无法理解。在这种痛苦之中，蒂尔尼一家的离开成为了她主要的安慰。他们将在几天内前往格洛斯特郡，而蒂尔尼船长的离开至少会让除了他自己之外的每个人的心恢复平静。但蒂尔尼上尉目前无意撤离；他不应该是诺桑觉党的一员；他将继续留在巴斯。凯瑟琳知道这一点后，直接就下了决心。她与亨利·蒂尔尼就这个问题进行了交谈，对他哥哥对索普小姐的明显偏爱感到遗憾，并恳求他告知她之前订婚的情况。

‘My brother does know it,’ was Henry’s answer.
“我哥哥确实知道，”亨利回答道。

‘Does he? Then why does he stay here?’
‘是吗？那他为什么留在这里？

He made no reply, and was beginning to talk of something else; but she eagerly continued, ‘Why do not you persuade him to go away? The longer he stays, the worse it will be for him at last. Pray advise him for his own sake, and for everybody’s sake, to leave Bath directly. Absence will in time make him comfortable again; but he can have no hope here, and it is only staying to be miserable.’
他没有回答，开始谈论别的事情。但她急切地继续说道：“你为什么不劝他走呢？”他待得越久，最后对他来说就越糟糕。为了他自己，也为了大家，请建议他直接离开巴斯。离开一段时间后，他会再次感到舒适。但他在这里不可能有任何希望，只能留下来痛苦不堪。

Henry smiled and said, ‘I am sure my brother would not wish to do that.’
亨利微笑着说道：“我相信我的兄弟不会愿意这么做。”

‘Then you will persuade him to go away?’
“那你会劝他走吗？”

‘Persuasion is not at command; but pardon me, if I cannot even endeavour to persuade him. I have myself told him that Miss Thorpe is engaged. He knows what he is about, and must be his own master.’
“说服不是命令，而是命令”。但如果我无法说服他，请原谅我。我亲自告诉他索普小姐已经订婚了。他知道自己是什么，并且必须是自己的主人。

‘No, he does not know what he is about,’ cried Catherine; ‘he does not know the pain he is giving my brother. Not that James has ever told me so, but I am sure he is very uncomfortable.’
“不，他不知道自己在做什么，”凯瑟琳喊道。 “他不知道他给我兄弟带来的痛苦。詹姆斯并没有告诉过我这一点，但我确信他感到非常不舒服。

‘And are you sure it is my brother’s doing?’
“你确定这是我哥哥干的吗？”

‘Yes, very sure.’
“是的，非常确定。”

‘Is it my brother’s attentions to Miss Thorpe, or Miss Thorpe’s admission of them, that gives the pain?’
“是我哥哥对索普小姐的关注，还是索普小姐对他们的承认，才造成了痛苦？”

‘Is not it the same thing?’
“这不是同一件事吗？”

‘I think Mr. Morland would acknowledge a difference. No man is offended by another man’s admiration of the woman he loves; it is the woman only who can make it a torment.’
“我认为莫兰先生会承认存在差异。没有一个男人会因为另一个男人对他所爱的女人的崇拜而感到冒犯。只有女人才能让它成为一种折磨。

Catherine blushed for her friend, and said, ‘Isabella is wrong. But I am sure she cannot mean to torment, for she is very much attached to my brother. She has been in love with him ever since they first met, and while my father’s consent was uncertain, she fretted herself almost into a fever. You know she must be attached to him.’
凯瑟琳为她的朋友脸红了，说：“伊莎贝拉错了。”但我确信她不会有意折磨，因为她非常依恋我的兄弟。从他们第一次见面起，她就爱上了他，虽然不确定父亲是否同意，但她却烦恼得几乎发烧了。你知道她一定很依恋他。

‘I understand: she is in love with James, and flirts with Frederick.’
“我明白：她爱上了詹姆斯，并与弗雷德里克调情。”

‘Oh! no, not flirts. A woman in love with one man cannot flirt with another.’
'哦！不，不是调情。一个女人爱上一个男人就不能和另一个男人调情。”

‘It is probable that she will neither love so well, nor flirt so well, as she might do either singly. The gentlemen must each give up a little.’
“很可能她既不会像单独那样爱得那么好，也不会调情得那么好。”先生们必须各自放弃一点。

After a short pause, Catherine resumed with, ‘Then you do not believe Isabella so very much attached to my brother?’
短暂的停顿后，凯瑟琳继续问道：“那么你不相信伊莎贝拉如此依恋我的兄弟吗？”

‘I can have no opinion on that subject.’
“我对这个问题没有意见。”

‘But what can your brother mean? If he knows her engagement, what can he mean by his behaviour?’
“但是你哥哥的意思是什么？如果他知道她订婚了，他的行为意味着什么？

‘You are a very close questioner.’
“你是一个非常细心的提问者。”

‘Am I? I only ask what I want to be told.’
‘我是吗？我只问我想被告知的事情。

‘But do you only ask what I can be expected to tell?’
“但是你只问我能告诉你什么吗？”

‘Yes, I think so; for you must know your brother’s heart.’
'是的，我想是这样;因为你必须了解你兄弟的心。

‘My brother’s heart, as you term it, on the present occasion, I assure you I can only guess at.’
“我兄弟的心，正如你所说，目前，我向你保证我只能猜测。”

‘Well?’
'出色地？'

‘Well! Nay, if it is to be guesswork, let us all guess for ourselves. To be guided by second-hand conjecture is pitiful. The premises are before you. My brother is a lively and perhaps sometimes a thoughtless young man; he has had about a week’s acquaintance with your friend, and he has known her engagement almost as long as he has known her.’
'出色地！不，如果这是猜测，那就让我们大家自己猜测吧。受二手推测的引导是很可怜的。场地就在你面前。我的兄弟是一个活泼的年轻人，也许有时是一个没有思想的年轻人。他和你的朋友认识了大约一周，他知道她订婚的时间几乎和认识她一样长。

‘Well,’ said Catherine, after some moments’ consideration, ‘you may be able to guess at your brother’s intentions from all this; but I am sure I cannot. But is not your father uncomfortable about it? Does not he want Captain Tilney to go away? Sure, if your father were to speak to him, he would go.’
“好吧，”凯瑟琳想了一会儿说道，“你也许能从这一切中猜出你哥哥的意图；但我确信我不能。但你父亲不觉得不舒服吗？难道他不想让蒂尔尼船长走开吗？当然，如果你父亲要跟他说话，他就会去。

‘My dear Miss Morland,’ said Henry, ‘in this amiable solicitude for your brother’s comfort, may you not be a little mistaken? Are you not carried a little too far? Would he thank you, either on his own account or Miss Thorpe’s, for supposing that her affection, or at least her good behaviour, is only to be secured by her seeing nothing of Captain Tilney? Is he safe only in solitude? Or is her heart constant to him only when unsolicited by anyone else? He cannot think this — and you may be sure that he would not have you think it. I will not say, ‘Do not be uneasy,’ because I know that you are so, at this moment; but be as little uneasy as you can. You have no doubt of the mutual attachment of your brother and your friend; depend upon it, therefore, that real jealousy never can exist between them; depend upon it that no disagreement between them can be of any duration. Their hearts are open to each other, as neither heart can be to you; they know exactly what is required and what can be borne; and you may be certain that one will never tease the other beyond what is known to be pleasant.’
“我亲爱的莫兰小姐，”亨利说，“在这种对你哥哥安慰的亲切关怀中，你会不会有点误会了？你是不是有点太过分了？他会感谢你，无论是为了他自己还是为了索普小姐，因为你认为她的感情，或者至少是她的良好行为，只有在她看不到蒂尔尼船长的情况下才能得到保证？只有在孤独中他才安全吗？还是只有在别人不请自来的时候，她的心才对他始终如一？他不可能这么想——而且你可以肯定他不会让你这么想。我不会说：“不要不安”，因为我知道此时此刻你就是这样；但尽量不要感到不安。你毫不怀疑你的兄弟和你的朋友之间的相互依恋；因此，可以肯定的是，他们之间永远不会存在真正的嫉妒。可以肯定的是，他们之间的分歧不会持续任何时间。他们的心向彼此敞开，而任何一颗心都无法向你敞开；他们清楚地知道什么是需要的，什么是可以承受的；你可以确信，一方永远不会以已知的令人愉快的方式取笑另一方。

Perceiving her still to look doubtful and grave, he added, ‘Though Frederick does not leave Bath with us, he will probably remain but a very short time, perhaps only a few days behind us. His leave of absence will soon expire, and he must return to his regiment. And what will then be their acquaintance? The mess-room will drink Isabella Thorpe for a fortnight, and she will laugh with your brother over poor Tilney’s passion for a month.’
他发现她仍然面带怀疑和严肃，于是补充道：“虽然腓特烈没有和我们一起离开巴斯，但他可能只会停留很短的时间，也许只比我们晚几天。”他的休假即将到期，他必须回到部队。那么他们会认识什么呢？餐厅里的伊莎贝拉·索普会喝上两周的酒，而她会和你哥哥一起因为可怜的蒂尔尼的热情而欢笑一个月。

Catherine would contend no longer against comfort. She had resisted its approaches during the whole length of a speech, but it now carried her captive. Henry Tilney must know best. She blamed herself for the extent of her fears, and resolved never to think so seriously on the subject again.
凯瑟琳将不再抗拒舒适。在整个演讲过程中，她一直在抵制它的接近，但现在它却俘虏了她。亨利·蒂尔尼一定最了解。她为自己的恐惧程度而自责，并决心不再认真思考这个问题。

Her resolution was supported by Isabella’s behaviour in their parting interview. The Thorpes spent the last evening of Catherine’s stay in Pulteney Street, and nothing passed between the lovers to excite her uneasiness, or make her quit them in apprehension. James was in excellent spirits, and Isabella most engagingly placid. Her tenderness for her friend seemed rather the first feeling of her heart; but that at such a moment was allowable; and once she gave her lover a flat contradiction, and once she drew back her hand; but Catherine remembered Henry’s instructions, and placed it all to judicious affection. The embraces, tears, and promises of the parting fair ones may be fancied.
伊莎贝拉在临别采访中的行为支持了她的决定。索普一家在普尔特尼街度过了凯瑟琳逗留的最后一个晚上，这对恋人之间没有发生任何事情让她感到不安，或者让她因忧虑而离开他们。詹姆斯精神抖擞，伊莎贝拉则平静得令人着迷。她对朋友的温柔似乎是她内心的第一感觉。但在这样的时刻，这是允许的；有一次，她对她的爱人提出了直截了当的反驳，然后她又把手缩回来了。但凯瑟琳记住了亨利的指示，并把这一切都放在明智的感情上。离别时美丽的人的拥抱、泪水和承诺可能是幻想的。

Chapter 20
第20章

Mr. and Mrs. Allen were sorry to lose their young friend, whose good humour and cheerfulness had made her a valuable companion, and in the promotion of whose enjoyment their own had been gently increased. Her happiness in going with Miss Tilney, however, prevented their wishing it otherwise; and, as they were to remain only one more week in Bath themselves, her quitting them now would not long be felt. Mr. Allen attended her to Milsom Street, where she was to breakfast, and saw her seated with the kindest welcome among her new friends; but so great was her agitation in finding herself as one of the family, and so fearful was she of not doing exactly what was right, and of not being able to preserve their good opinion, that, in the embarrassment of the first five minutes, she could almost have wished to return with him to Pulteney Street.
艾伦先生和夫人对失去他们的年轻朋友感到遗憾，她的幽默和开朗使她成为一个有价值的伴侣，并且在她的促进下，他们自己的乐趣也逐渐增加了。然而，她和蒂尔尼小姐一起去的快乐阻止了他们的愿望。而且，由于他们自己只能在巴斯再待一个星期，所以她现在离开他们的感觉不会太久。艾伦先生送她到米尔瑟姆街，她要在那里吃早餐，看到她坐在新朋友中间，受到最亲切的欢迎。但是，当她发现自己是这个家庭的一员时，她是如此激动，她如此害怕自己没有做正确的事情，也害怕无法保留他们的好感，以至于在前五分钟的尴尬中，她几乎希望和他一起回到普尔特尼街。

Miss Tilney’s manners and Henry’s smile soon did away some of her unpleasant feelings; but still she was far from being at ease; nor could the incessant attentions of the general himself entirely reassure her. Nay, perverse as it seemed, she doubted whether she might not have felt less, had she been less attended to. His anxiety for her comfort — his continual solicitations that she would eat, and his often-expressed fears of her seeing nothing to her taste — though never in her life before had she beheld half such variety on a breakfast-table — made it impossible for her to forget for a moment that she was a visitor. She felt utterly unworthy of such respect, and knew not how to reply to it. Her tranquillity was not improved by the general’s impatience for the appearance of his eldest son, nor by the displeasure he expressed at his laziness when Captain Tilney at last came down. She was quite pained by the severity of his father’s reproof, which seemed disproportionate to the offence; and much was her concern increased when she found herself the principal cause of the lecture, and that his tardiness was chiefly resented from being disrespectful to her. This was placing her in a very uncomfortable situation, and she felt great compassion for Captain Tilney, without being able to hope for his goodwill.
蒂尔尼小姐的举止和亨利的微笑很快就消除了她的一些不愉快的感觉。但她仍然很不自在。将军本人的不断关注也无法让她完全放心。不仅如此，尽管这看起来很反常，但她怀疑，如果她受到较少的照顾，自己是否会感觉不那么糟糕。他对她的安慰的焦虑——他不断地恳求她吃东西，他经常表示担心她吃不到任何合她口味的东西——尽管她以前从未在早餐桌上看到过如此多的品种——这使得他不可能让她暂时忘记自己是个访客。她觉得自己根本不配得到这样的尊重，也不知道该如何回应。将军对长子出现的不耐烦，以及蒂尔尼上尉终于下来时对自己的懒惰表示的不满，都没有改善她的平静。她对他父亲的严厉责备感到非常痛苦，这似乎与他的过失不相称。当她发现自己是这场讲座的主要原因时，她更加担心了，而且她对他的迟到主要是因为对她的不尊重而感到不满。这让她陷入了非常不舒服的境地，她对蒂尔尼船长感到非常同情，但无法指望他的善意。

He listened to his father in silence, and attempted not any defence, which confirmed her in fearing that the inquietude of his mind, on Isabella’s account, might, by keeping him long sleepless, have been the real cause of his rising late. It was the first time of her being decidedly in his company, and she had hoped to be now able to form her opinion of him; but she scarcely heard his voice while his father remained in the room; and even afterwards, so much were his spirits affected, she could distinguish nothing but these words, in a whisper to Eleanor, ‘How glad I shall be when you are all off.’
他默默地听着父亲的讲话，没有试图做出任何辩护，这让她更确信，伊莎贝拉担心他内心的不安，可能会让他长时间失眠，成为他起晚的真正原因。这是她第一次真正和他在一起，她希望现在能够对他形成自己的看法；但当他父亲留在房间里时，她几乎听不到他的声音。即使到了后来，他的精神受到如此大的影响，她只能听出这句话，她低声对埃莉诺说：“当你们都离开时，我会多么高兴。”

The bustle of going was not pleasant. The clock struck ten while the trunks were carrying down, and the general had fixed to be out of Milsom Street by that hour. His greatcoat, instead of being brought for him to put on directly, was spread out in the curricle in which he was to accompany his son. The middle seat of the chaise was not drawn out, though there were three people to go in it, and his daughter’s maid had so crowded it with parcels that Miss Morland would not have room to sit; and, so much was he influenced by this apprehension when he handed her in, that she had some difficulty in saving her own new writing-desk from being thrown out into the street. At last, however, the door was closed upon the three females, and they set off at the sober pace in which the handsome, highly fed four horses of a gentleman usually perform a journey of thirty miles: such was the distance of Northanger from Bath, to be now divided into two equal stages. Catherine’s spirits revived as they drove from the door; for with Miss Tilney she felt no restraint; and, with the interest of a road entirely new to her, of an abbey before, and a curricle behind, she caught the last view of Bath without any regret, and met with every milestone before she expected it. The tediousness of a two hours’ wait at Petty France, in which there was nothing to be done but to eat without being hungry, and loiter about without anything to see, next followed — and her admiration of the style in which they travelled, of the fashionable chaise and four — postilions handsomely liveried, rising so regularly in their stirrups, and numerous outriders properly mounted, sunk a little under this consequent inconvenience. Had their party been perfectly agreeable, the delay would have been nothing; but General Tilney, though so charming a man, seemed always a check upon his children’s spirits, and scarcely anything was said but by himself; the observation of which, with his discontent at whatever the inn afforded, and his angry impatience at the waiters, made Catherine grow every moment more in awe of him, and appeared to lengthen the two hours into four. At last, however, the order of release was given; and much was Catherine then surprised by the general’s proposal of her taking his place in his son’s curricle for the rest of the journey: ‘the day was fine, and he was anxious for her seeing as much of the country as possible.’
忙碌的行进并不令人愉快。时钟敲响了十点，行李箱正在运下来，将军预定在这个时间离开米尔瑟姆街。他的大衣没有被拿来让他直接穿上，而是摊在他要陪伴儿子的课程中。马车的中间座位没有拉出来，尽管可以坐三个人，而且他女儿的女仆把包裹塞得满满的，莫兰小姐没有地方坐。当他把她交出来时，这种忧虑对他的影响是如此之大，以致于她费了好大劲才把自己的新写字台免于被扔到街上。然而，最后，门对三名女性关闭了，她们以清醒的步伐出发，一位绅士英俊、饱食的四匹马通常会进行三十英里的旅程：这就是诺桑觉寺与巴斯的距离，现在分为两个相等的阶段。当他们开车离开门口时，凯瑟琳的精神又恢复了。因为和蒂尔尼小姐在一起时，她没有感到任何拘束。怀着对一条对她而言全新的道路、前有修道院、后有课程的兴趣，她毫无遗憾地看到了巴斯的最后一景，并在她预期之前遇到了每一个里程碑。接下来是在小法兰西等了两个小时的乏味，除了饿着肚子吃东西之外，没有什么可做的，闲逛也没有什么可看的，接下来是她对他们旅行方式的钦佩，时髦的马车和四辆马车，穿着漂亮的制服，在马镫上定期升起，还有许多正确安装的护卫，在这种随之而来的不便下稍微下沉了。 如果他们的聚会完全同意的话，那么耽搁就没什么了。蒂尔尼将军虽然是个很有魅力的人，但似乎总是抑制着孩子们的精神，除了他自己之外，几乎不说任何话。他对客栈提供的一切感到不满，对侍者感到愤怒不耐烦，这一观察使凯瑟琳对他越来越敬畏，似乎把两个小时延长到了四个小时。然而最后，释放的命令下达了。将军提议让她在余下的旅程中参加他儿子的课程，凯瑟琳感到非常惊讶：“天气很好，他很想让她尽可能多地参观这个国家。”’

The remembrance of Mr. Allen’s opinion, respecting young men’s open carriages, made her blush at the mention of such a plan, and her first thought was to decline it; but her second was of greater deference for General Tilney’s judgment; he could not propose anything improper for her; and, in the course of a few minutes, she found herself with Henry in the curricle, as happy a being as ever existed. A very short trial convinced her that a curricle was the prettiest equipage in the world; the chaise and four wheeled off with some grandeur, to be sure, but it was a heavy and troublesome business, and she could not easily forget its having stopped two hours at Petty France. Half the time would have been enough for the curricle, and so nimbly were the light horses disposed to move, that, had not the general chosen to have his own carriage lead the way, they could have passed it with ease in half a minute. But the merit of the curricle did not all belong to the horses; Henry drove so well — so quietly — without making any disturbance, without parading to her, or swearing at them: so different from the only gentleman-coachman whom it was in her power to compare him with! And then his hat sat so well, and the innumerable capes of his greatcoat looked so becomingly important! To be driven by him, next to being dancing with him, was certainly the greatest happiness in the world. In addition to every other delight, she had now that of listening to her own praise; of being thanked at least, on his sister’s account, for her kindness in thus becoming her visitor; of hearing it ranked as real friendship, and described as creating real gratitude. His sister, he said, was uncomfortably circumstanced — she had no female companion — and, in the frequent absence of her father, was sometimes without any companion at all.
想起艾伦先生关于尊重年轻人敞篷马车的观点，一提到这样的计划，她就脸红了，她的第一个念头就是拒绝。但她的第二个更尊重蒂尔尼将军的判断。他不能向她提出任何不妥当的建议。几分钟后，她发现自己和亨利一起在课程中，像以前一样快乐。一次非常短暂的试验让她相信课程是世界上最漂亮的装备。诚然，马车和四轮车开走了，确实有些威严，但这是一件繁重而麻烦的事情，她不能轻易忘记它在小法兰西停了两个小时。一半的时间就够课程了，轻马走起来又那么敏捷，要不是将军选择自己的马车带路，半分钟之内就能轻松通过。但课程的优点并不全都属于马匹。亨利开得那么好——那么安静——没有造成任何干扰，没有向她炫耀，也没有对他们咒骂：与她有能力与他进行比较的唯一一位绅士马车夫是如此不同！然后他的帽子坐得那么好，他大衣上无数的斗篷看起来那么重要！被他带动，除了和他一起跳舞，无疑是世界上最大的幸福。除了其他的快乐之外，她现在还有的是听到自己的赞美。至少，为了他妹妹的缘故，他感谢她的好意，成为她的访客；听到它被列为真正的友谊，并被描述为产生真正的感激之情。 他说，他的妹妹的处境很不舒服——她没有女性伴侣——而且，由于她父亲经常不在，有时根本没有任何伴侣。

‘But how can that be?’ said Catherine. ‘Are not you with her?’
“但这怎么可能呢？”凯瑟琳问道。 “你不和她在一起吗？”

‘Northanger is not more than half my home; I have an establishment at my own house in Woodston, which is nearly twenty miles from my father’s, and some of my time is necessarily spent there.’
“诺桑觉不超过我家的一半；我在伍德斯顿有自己的房子，距离我父亲的房子有近二十英里，我的一些时间必然是在那里度过的。

‘How sorry you must be for that!’
“你一定为此感到多么遗憾！”

‘I am always sorry to leave Eleanor.’
“离开埃莉诺我总是感到遗憾。”

‘Yes; but besides your affection for her, you must be so fond of the abbey! After being used to such a home as the abbey, an ordinary parsonage-house must be very disagreeable.’
'是的;但除了你对她的喜爱之外，你一定也很喜欢这座修道院！在习惯了修道院这样的房子之后，普通的牧师住宅一定很不舒服。

He smiled, and said, ‘You have formed a very favourable idea of the abbey.’
他微笑着说：“你对这座修道院有了非常好的想法。”

‘To be sure, I have. Is not it a fine old place, just like what one reads about?’
“当然，我有。这不是一个很好的老地方吗，就像人们读到的那样？

‘And are you prepared to encounter all the horrors that a building such as ‘what one reads about’ may produce? Have you a stout heart? Nerves fit for sliding panels and tapestry?’
“你准备好面对像‘人们读到的’这样的建筑可能产生的所有恐怖了吗？”你有一颗坚强的心吗？神经适合滑动面板和挂毯吗？

‘Oh! yes — I do not think I should be easily frightened, because there would be so many people in the house — and besides, it has never been uninhabited and left deserted for years, and then the family come back to it unawares, without giving any notice, as generally happens.’
'哦！是的——我认为我不应该轻易被吓到，因为房子里会有那么多人——而且，它从来没有无人居住，多年来一直无人居住，然后一家人不知不觉地回到了它，没有给任何东西。请注意，就像通常发生的那样。”

‘No, certainly. We shall not have to explore our way into a hall dimly lighted by the expiring embers of a wood fire — nor be obliged to spread our beds on the floor of a room without windows, doors, or furniture. But you must be aware that when a young lady is (by whatever means) introduced into a dwelling of this kind, she is always lodged apart from the rest of the family. While they snugly repair to their own end of the house, she is formally conducted by Dorothy, the ancient housekeeper, up a different staircase, and along many gloomy passages, into an apartment never used since some cousin or kin died in it about twenty years before. Can you stand such a ceremony as this? Will not your mind misgive you when you find yourself in this gloomy chamber — too lofty and extensive for you, with only the feeble rays of a single lamp to take in its size — its walls hung with tapestry exhibiting figures as large as life, and the bed, of dark green stuff or purple velvet, presenting even a funereal appearance? Will not your heart sink within you?’
‘不，当然。我们不必摸索着进入一个被木火熄灭的余烬照亮的昏暗大厅，也不必把床铺在没有窗户、门或家具的房间的地板上。但你必须意识到，当一位年轻女士（无论以何种方式）被引入此类住宅时，她总是与其他家庭成员分开居住。当他们紧紧地修理到房子自己的那一端时，她被古老的管家多萝西正式引导，走上另一个楼梯，沿着许多阴暗的通道，进入一间公寓，自从一些表亲或亲戚在其中去世大约二十年以来从未使用过。前。这样的仪式你受得了吗？当你发现自己身处这个阴暗的房间时，你的心灵不会感到疑虑吗——对你来说太高大了，只有一盏灯的微弱光线无法看出它的大小——墙壁上挂着挂毯，上面展示着像真人一样大的人物，床是深绿色的东西还是紫色的天鹅绒，甚至呈现出葬礼般的样子？你的心不会沉下去吗？

‘Oh! But this will not happen to me, I am sure.’
'哦！但我确信这不会发生在我身上。”

‘How fearfully will you examine the furniture of your apartment! And what will you discern? Not tables, toilettes, wardrobes, or drawers, but on one side perhaps the remains of a broken lute, on the other a ponderous chest which no efforts can open, and over the fireplace the portrait of some handsome warrior, whose features will so incomprehensibly strike you, that you will not be able to withdraw your eyes from it. Dorothy, meanwhile, no less struck by your appearance, gazes on you in great agitation, and drops a few unintelligible hints. To raise your spirits, moreover, she gives you reason to suppose that the part of the abbey you inhabit is undoubtedly haunted, and informs you that you will not have a single domestic within call. With this parting cordial she curtsies off — you listen to the sound of her receding footsteps as long as the last echo can reach you — and when, with fainting spirits, you attempt to fasten your door, you discover, with increased alarm, that it has no lock.’
‘你会多么害怕地检查你公寓的家具啊！你会看出什么？不是桌子、盥洗用品、衣柜或抽屉，但一侧也许是一把破损的鲁特琴的残骸，另一侧是一个费力也打不开的笨重箱子，壁炉上方挂着一些英俊武士的肖像，他的面貌将变得令人难以理解。震撼你，你将无法将目光从它身上移开。与此同时，多萝西同样对你的外表感到震惊，她激动地看着你，并给出了一些难以理解的暗示。此外，为了振奋你的精神，她让你有理由相信你所居住的修道院的部分无疑是闹鬼的，并告诉你，你不会接到任何家庭电话。临别之际，她行了屈膝礼——只要最后的回声传到你耳边，你就听着她远去的脚步声——当你心力交瘁地试图关上门时，你发现，你的警觉越来越强烈，没有锁。

‘Oh! Mr. Tilney, how frightful! This is just like a book! But it cannot really happen to me. I am sure your housekeeper is not really Dorothy. Well, what then?’
'哦！蒂尔尼先生，多可怕啊！这就像一本书一样！但这不可能真的发生在我身上。我确信你的管家不是真正的多萝西。好吧，然后呢？

‘Nothing further to alarm perhaps may occur the first night. After surmounting your unconquerable horror of the bed, you will retire to rest, and get a few hours’ unquiet slumber. But on the second, or at farthest the third night after your arrival, you will probably have a violent storm. Peals of thunder so loud as to seem to shake the edifice to its foundation will roll round the neighbouring mountains — and during the frightful gusts of wind which accompany it, you will probably think you discern (for your lamp is not extinguished) one part of the hanging more violently agitated than the rest. Unable of course to repress your curiosity in so favourable a moment for indulging it, you will instantly arise, and throwing your dressing-gown around you, proceed to examine this mystery. After a very short search, you will discover a division in the tapestry so artfully constructed as to defy the minutest inspection, and on opening it, a door will immediately appear — which door, being only secured by massy bars and a padlock, you will, after a few efforts, succeed in opening — and, with your lamp in your hand, will pass through it into a small vaulted room.’
“第一天晚上可能不会发生进一步令人惊慌的事情。在克服了对床不可克服的恐惧之后，您将休息一下，并享受几个小时的不安静的睡眠。但在您到达后的第二天，或者最远的第三晚，您可能会遭遇猛烈的风暴。雷声如此之大，似乎要把这座大厦的地基都摇晃起来，将滚过邻近的山脉——在伴随着它的可怕的狂风中，你可能会认为你辨别出了（因为你的灯还没有熄灭）的一部分。绞刑架上的人比其他人更剧烈地激动。当然，在如此有利的时刻，你无法抑制自己的好奇心，你会立即起身，披上晨衣，继续探索这个谜团。经过很短的搜索，你会发现挂毯上有一个划分，它的构造如此巧妙，以至于无法经受最细微的检查，打开它，一扇门会立即出现——哪扇门只由大量的栅栏和挂锁固定，你会发现，经过一番努力，成功打开——并且，手里拿着灯，将穿过它进入一个小拱形房间。

‘No, indeed; I should be too much frightened to do any such thing.’
“不，确实如此；”我应该太害怕了，不敢做这样的事。

‘What! Not when Dorothy has given you to understand that there is a secret subterraneous communication between your apartment and the chapel of St. Anthony, scarcely two miles off? Could you shrink from so simple an adventure? No, no, you will proceed into this small vaulted room, and through this into several others, without perceiving anything very remarkable in either. In one perhaps there may be a dagger, in another a few drops of blood, and in a third the remains of some instrument of torture; but there being nothing in all this out of the common way, and your lamp being nearly exhausted, you will return towards your own apartment. In repassing through the small vaulted room, however, your eyes will be attracted towards a large, old-fashioned cabinet of ebony and gold, which, though narrowly examining the furniture before, you had passed unnoticed. Impelled by an irresistible presentiment, you will eagerly advance to it, unlock its folding doors, and search into every drawer — but for some time without discovering anything of importance — perhaps nothing but a considerable hoard of diamonds. At last, however, by touching a secret spring, an inner compartment will open — a roll of paper appears — you seize it — it contains many sheets of manuscript — you hasten with the precious treasure into your own chamber, but scarcely have you been able to decipher ‘Oh! Thou — whomsoever thou mayst be, into whose hands these memoirs of the wretched Matilda may fall’ — when your lamp suddenly expires in the socket, and leaves you in total darkness.’
'什么！当多萝西让你明白你的公寓和圣安东尼教堂之间有一个秘密的地下通讯时，距离不到两英里，不是吗？你能从如此简单的冒险中退缩吗？不，不，你将进入这个小拱形房间，并穿过这个房间进入其他几个房间，而不会在任何一个房间中察觉到任何非常值得注意的东西。其中一个可能有一把匕首，另一个可能有几滴血，第三个可能有某种酷刑工具的残骸；不过，这一切并没有什么不寻常的地方，而且你的灯也快耗尽了，你将返回自己的公寓。然而，当你再次穿过这个拱形的小房间时，你的目光会被一个乌木和金色的老式大柜子吸引，尽管你之前仔细检查过里面的家具，但你并没有注意到它。在一种不可抗拒的预感的驱使下，你会急切地走向它，打开它的折叠门，搜查每一个抽屉——但有一段时间没有发现任何重要的东西——也许除了一大堆钻石之外什么也没有。然而，最后，通过触摸一个秘密弹簧，一个内部隔间将打开——出现一卷纸——你抓住它——里面有许多张手稿——你带着珍贵的宝藏匆忙进入自己的房间，但你几乎没有能够破译‘哦！你——无论你是谁，这些关于不幸的玛蒂尔达的回忆录都可能落入谁的手中——当你的灯突然在灯座里熄灭，把你留在一片漆黑之中时。

‘Oh! No, no — do not say so. Well, go on.’
'哦！不，不——不要这么说。好吧，继续吧。

But Henry was too much amused by the interest he had raised to be able to carry it farther; he could no longer command solemnity either of subject or voice, and was obliged to entreat her to use her own fancy in the perusal of Matilda’s woes. Catherine, recollecting herself, grew ashamed of her eagerness, and began earnestly to assure him that her attention had been fixed without the smallest apprehension of really meeting with what he related. ‘Miss Tilney, she was sure, would never put her into such a chamber as he had described! She was not at all afraid.’
但亨利对他引起的兴趣太感兴趣了，无法继续下去。他不再能够在主题或声音上保持严肃，不得不恳求她用自己的想象力来仔细研究玛蒂尔达的困境。凯瑟琳回过神来，为自己的急切感到羞愧，并开始真诚地向他保证，她的注意力已经集中，丝毫没有担心真正会见他所讲述的内容。 “蒂尔尼小姐，她确信，永远不会把她放进他所描述的那样的房间里！”她一点也不害怕。

As they drew near the end of their journey, her impatience for a sight of the abbey — for some time suspended by his conversation on subjects very different — returned in full force, and every bend in the road was expected with solemn awe to afford a glimpse of its massy walls of grey stone, rising amidst a grove of ancient oaks, with the last beams of the sun playing in beautiful splendour on its high Gothic windows. But so low did the building stand, that she found herself passing through the great gates of the lodge into the very grounds of Northanger, without having discerned even an antique chimney.
当他们接近旅程的终点​​时，她对修道院景象的不耐烦——由于他谈论的主题非常不同——而暂停了一段时间——再次完全爆发，道路上的每一个拐弯都带着庄严的敬畏，期待着瞥见其巨大的灰色石墙，矗立在古老的橡树林中，最后的阳光在高高的哥特式窗户上闪耀着美丽的光芒。但这座建筑的高度很低，她发现自己穿过小屋的大门，进入了诺桑觉寺的院子里，甚至没有看到一个古老的烟囱。

She knew not that she had any right to be surprised, but there was a something in this mode of approach which she certainly had not expected. To pass between lodges of a modern appearance, to find herself with such ease in the very precincts of the abbey, and driven so rapidly along a smooth, level road of fine gravel, without obstacle, alarm, or solemnity of any kind, struck her as odd and inconsistent. She was not long at leisure, however, for such considerations. A sudden scud of rain, driving full in her face, made it impossible for her to observe anything further, and fixed all her thoughts on the welfare of her new straw bonnet; and she was actually under the abbey walls, was springing, with Henry’s assistance, from the carriage, was beneath the shelter of the old porch, and had even passed on to the hall, where her friend and the general were waiting to welcome her, without feeling one awful foreboding of future misery to herself, or one moment’s suspicion of any past scenes of horror being acted within the solemn edifice. The breeze had not seemed to waft the sighs of the murdered to her; it had wafted nothing worse than a thick mizzling rain; and having given a good shake to her habit, she was ready to be shown into the common drawing-room, and capable of considering where she was.
她不知道自己有什么权利感到惊讶，但这种方式中有些东西是她肯定没有预料到的。在外观现代的小屋之间穿行，发现自己如此轻松地进入了修道院的范围，沿着光滑平坦的细石路快速行驶，没有任何障碍，惊慌或庄严，这让她震惊奇怪且不一致。然而，出于这些考虑，她并没有多久的空闲时间。突然下起倾盆大雨，打在她的脸上，使她无法再观察任何东西，她的所有心思都集中在她的新草帽的福祉上。她实际上是在修道院的围墙下，在亨利的帮助下，从马车上跳下来，在旧门廊的庇护下，甚至已经到了大厅，她的朋友和将军正在那里等着欢迎她，她没有对自己未来的痛苦感到任何可怕的预感，也没有一刻怀疑过去在这座庄严的大厦内发生过任何恐怖的场面。微风似乎没有向她吹来被谋杀者的叹息；没有什么比一场大雨更糟糕的了。她改掉了自己的习惯，准备好被带进公共客厅，并能够考虑自己身在何处。

An abbey! Yes, it was delightful to be really in an abbey! But she doubted, as she looked round the room, whether anything within her observation would have given her the consciousness. The furniture was in all the profusion and elegance of modern taste. The fireplace, where she had expected the ample width and ponderous carving of former times, was contracted to a Rumford, with slabs of plain though handsome marble, and ornaments over it of the prettiest English china. The windows, to which she looked with peculiar dependence, from having heard the general talk of his preserving them in their Gothic form with reverential care, were yet less what her fancy had portrayed. To be sure, the pointed arch was preserved — the form of them was Gothic — they might be even casements — but every pane was so large, so clear, so light! To an imagination which had hoped for the smallest divisions, and the heaviest stone-work, for painted glass, dirt, and cobwebs, the difference was very distressing.
一座修道院！是的，在修道院里真是令人愉快！但当她环顾房间时，她怀疑自己观察到的任何东西是否会给她带来意识。家具充满了现代品味的丰富和优雅。她原以为壁炉会像以前一样宽阔，雕刻笨重，现在却被改造成拉姆福德壁炉，里面铺着朴素但漂亮的大理石板，上面装饰着最漂亮的英国瓷器。听到人们普遍谈论他以虔诚的态度将窗户保留为哥特式形式，她带着一种特殊的依赖看着这些窗户，但它们却远不是她想象中所描绘的那样。可以肯定的是，尖拱门被保留下来了——它们的形式是哥特式的——它们甚至可能是平开窗——但每一块玻璃都那么大、那么清晰、那么轻！对于一个希望有最小的分区和最重的石制品、彩绘玻璃、泥土和蜘蛛网的想象力来说，这种差异是非常令人痛苦的。

The general, perceiving how her eye was employed, began to talk of the smallness of the room and simplicity of the furniture, where everything, being for daily use, pretended only to comfort, etc.; flattering himself, however, that there were some apartments in the Abbey not unworthy her notice — and was proceeding to mention the costly gilding of one in particular, when, taking out his watch, he stopped short to pronounce it with surprise within twenty minutes of five! This seemed the word of separation, and Catherine found herself hurried away by Miss Tilney in such a manner as convinced her that the strictest punctuality to the family hours would be expected at Northanger.
将军察觉到了她的目光，开始谈论房间狭小，家具简单，一切都是为了日常使用，假装只是为了舒适，等等。然而，他自以为修道院里的一些公寓不值得她注意——并开始特别提到其中一间的昂贵镀金，这时，他拿出手表，在二十分钟内惊讶地停下来报出时间。五！这似乎是分离的话语，凯瑟琳发现自己被蒂尔尼小姐匆匆赶走了，她确信诺桑觉会严格遵守家庭时间。

Returning through the large and lofty hall, they ascended a broad staircase of shining oak, which, after many flights and many landing-places, brought them upon a long, wide gallery. On one side it had a range of doors, and it was lighted on the other by windows which Catherine had only time to discover looked into a quadrangle, before Miss Tilney led the way into a chamber, and scarcely staying to hope she would find it comfortable, left her with an anxious entreaty that she would make as little alteration as possible in her dress.
穿过宽敞而高耸的大厅，他们登上了一座宽阔的闪亮橡木楼梯，经过多次飞行和多次着陆后，他们来到了一条又长又宽的走廊。一侧有一系列的门，另一侧的窗户照亮了窗户，凯瑟琳只来得及发现窗户正对着一个四合院，蒂尔尼小姐带路走进了一间房间，几乎没有留下来希望她能找到它。她很舒服，焦急地恳求她尽可能少地改变她的衣服。

Chapter 21
第21章

A moment’s glance was enough to satisfy Catherine that her apartment was very unlike the one which Henry had endeavoured to alarm her by the description of. It was by no means unreasonably large, and contained neither tapestry nor velvet. The walls were papered, the floor was carpeted; the windows were neither less perfect nor more dim than those of the drawing-room below; the furniture, though not of the latest fashion, was handsome and comfortable, and the air of the room altogether far from uncheerful. Her heart instantaneously at ease on this point, she resolved to lose no time in particular examination of anything, as she greatly dreaded disobliging the general by any delay. Her habit therefore was thrown off with all possible haste, and she was preparing to unpin the linen package, which the chaise-seat had conveyed for her immediate accommodation, when her eye suddenly fell on a large high chest, standing back in a deep recess on one side of the fireplace. The sight of it made her start; and, forgetting everything else, she stood gazing on it in motionless wonder, while these thoughts crossed her:
凯瑟琳看了一眼就足以让凯瑟琳确信她的公寓与亨利试图通过描述来警告她的公寓非常不同。它决不是大得离谱，里面既没有挂毯，也没有天鹅绒。墙上贴着纸，地板上铺着地毯；窗户并不比下面客厅的窗户更完美，也更暗淡。家具虽然不是最新式的，但却漂亮又舒适，房间里的空气一点也不阴沉。想到这里，她心里顿时踏实了，决定抓紧时间去仔细检查，生怕耽误了将军的事。因此，她赶紧脱掉了习惯，正准备解开躺椅上为她立即安置的亚麻布包裹，这时她的目光突然落在一个高大的胸部上，它站在一个深深的凹处里。在壁炉的一侧。看到它，她吃了一惊。她忘记了其他一切，站在那里，一动不动地惊奇地凝视着它，同时这些想法掠过她的脑海：

‘This is strange indeed! I did not expect such a sight as this! An immense heavy chest! What can it hold? Why should it be placed here? Pushed back too, as if meant to be out of sight! I will look into it — cost me what it may, I will look into it — and directly too — by daylight. If I stay till evening my candle may go out.’ She advanced and examined it closely: it was of cedar, curiously inlaid with some darker wood, and raised, about a foot from the ground, on a carved stand of the same. The lock was silver, though tarnished from age; at each end were the imperfect remains of handles also of silver, broken perhaps prematurely by some strange violence; and, on the centre of the lid, was a mysterious cipher, in the same metal. Catherine bent over it intently, but without being able to distinguish anything with certainty. She could not, in whatever direction she took it, believe the last letter to be a T; and yet that it should be anything else in that house was a circumstance to raise no common degree of astonishment. If not originally theirs, by what strange events could it have fallen into the Tilney family?
‘这确实很奇怪！没想到会出现这样的景象！巨大而沉重的胸膛！它能容纳什么？为什么要放在这儿呢？也被推了回去，仿佛注定要消失一样！我会调查它——无论付出什么代价，我都会在白天调查它——而且是直接调查。如果我待到晚上，我的蜡烛可能会熄灭。”她走上前，仔细地检查了它：它是雪松制成的，奇怪地镶嵌着一些深色的木头，离地大约一英尺，放在一个同样的雕花架上。锁是银制的，虽然因年代久远而失去了光泽。两端都有不完美的银质把手残骸，也许是因为某种奇怪的暴力而过早地折断了。在盖子的中央，有一个神秘的密码，也是用同样的金属制成的。凯瑟琳专心致志地弯下腰，但无法确定地辨别出什么。无论她从哪个方向看，她都无法相信最后一个字母是T；她无法相信最后一个字母是T。然而，那所房子里竟然有其他东西，这并没有引起人们普遍的惊讶。如果不是本来就是他们的，又怎么可能落到了蒂尔尼家族的手里呢？

Her fearful curiosity was every moment growing greater; and seizing, with trembling hands, the hasp of the lock, she resolved at all hazards to satisfy herself at least as to its contents. With difficulty, for something seemed to resist her efforts, she raised the lid a few inches; but at that moment a sudden knocking at the door of the room made her, starting, quit her hold, and the lid closed with alarming violence. This ill-timed intruder was Miss Tilney’s maid, sent by her mistress to be of use to Miss Morland; and though Catherine immediately dismissed her, it recalled her to the sense of what she ought to be doing, and forced her, in spite of her anxious desire to penetrate this mystery, to proceed in her dressing without further delay. Her progress was not quick, for her thoughts and her eyes were still bent on the object so well calculated to interest and alarm; and though she dared not waste a moment upon a second attempt, she could not remain many paces from the chest. At length, however, having slipped one arm into her gown, her toilette seemed so nearly finished that the impatience of her curiosity might safely be indulged. One moment surely might be spared; and, so desperate should be the exertion of her strength, that, unless secured by supernatural means, the lid in one moment should be thrown back. With this spirit she sprang forward, and her confidence did not deceive her. Her resolute effort threw back the lid, and gave to her astonished eyes the view of a white cotton counterpane, properly folded, reposing at one end of the chest in undisputed possession!
她那可怕的好奇心每时每刻都在增强。她用颤抖的手抓住了锁的搭扣，决心不惜一切危险，至少要了解里面的东西。她费力地把盖子抬起几英寸，因为似乎有什​​么东西在抗拒她的努力。但就在这时，突然传来一阵敲门声，让她吓了一跳，松开手，房门以惊人的暴力力关上了。这个不合时宜的入侵者是蒂尔尼小姐的女仆，是她的女主人派来为莫兰小姐服务的。尽管凯瑟琳立刻打发走了她，但这却让她想起了自己应该做的事情，并迫使她，尽管她急切地想了解这个谜团，还是立即开始穿衣服。她的进展并不快，因为她的思想和眼睛仍然集中在这个精心设计的物体上，以引起兴趣和警报；尽管她不敢再浪费时间进行第二次尝试，但她还是无法与胸部保持很远的距离。然而，最后，当她把一只手臂伸进长袍时，她的梳妆打扮似乎快完成了，她的好奇心的不耐烦终于可以得到满足了。肯定可以节省一分钟；而且，她的力量是如此拼命地发挥，除非有超自然的手段，否则盖子会立刻被推开。凭着这种精神，她向前一跃，她的自信没有欺骗她。她毅然决然地把盖子掀开，她惊讶地看到一张白色棉质床单，折叠得很好，毫无争议地放在箱子的一端！

She was gazing on it with the first blush of surprise when Miss Tilney, anxious for her friend’s being ready, entered the room, and to the rising shame of having harboured for some minutes an absurd expectation, was then added the shame of being caught in so idle a search. ‘That is a curious old chest, is not it?’ said Miss Tilney, as Catherine hastily closed it and turned away to the glass. ‘It is impossible to say how many generations it has been here. How it came to be first put in this room I know not, but I have not had it moved, because I thought it might sometimes be of use in holding hats and bonnets. The worst of it is that its weight makes it difficult to open. In that corner, however, it is at least out of the way.’
当蒂尔尼小姐急切地等待她的朋友准备好时，她正惊讶地看着它，脸红了，走进了房间，几分钟以来一直怀有一种荒谬的期望，这让她感到越来越羞愧，然后又加上了被卷入其中的羞愧。所以闲着搜索。 “那是一个奇怪的旧箱子，不是吗？”蒂尔尼小姐说道，凯瑟琳急忙关上箱子，转向玻璃。 “无法说清这里已经存在了多少代人。我不知道它是如何第一次被放在这个房间里的，但我没有把它移动，因为我认为它有时可能用来固定帽子和软帽。最糟糕的是它的重量使其难以打开。然而，在那个角落，它至少不碍事。

Catherine had no leisure for speech, being at once blushing, tying her gown, and forming wise resolutions with the most violent dispatch. Miss Tilney gently hinted her fear of being late; and in half a minute they ran downstairs together, in an alarm not wholly unfounded, for General Tilney was pacing the drawing-room, his watch in his hand, and having, on the very instant of their entering, pulled the bell with violence, ordered ‘Dinner to be on table directly!’
凯瑟琳没有闲暇说话，立刻涨红了脸，系好长袍，并以最猛烈的速度做出了明智的决定。蒂尔尼小姐温和地暗示她担心迟到。半分钟后，他们一起跑下楼，惊慌失措并非完全没有根据，因为蒂尔尼将军手里拿着手表，在客厅里踱来踱去，他们一进去，就用力拉响了门铃，点了“晚餐直接上桌！”

Catherine trembled at the emphasis with which he spoke, and sat pale and breathless, in a most humble mood, concerned for his children, and detesting old chests; and the general, recovering his politeness as he looked at her, spent the rest of his time in scolding his daughter for so foolishly hurrying her fair friend, who was absolutely out of breath from haste, when there was not the least occasion for hurry in the world: but Catherine could not at all get over the double distress of having involved her friend in a lecture and been a great simpleton herself, till they were happily seated at the dinner-table, when the general’s complacent smiles, and a good appetite of her own, restored her to peace. The dining-parlour was a noble room, suitable in its dimensions to a much larger drawing-room than the one in common use, and fitted up in a style of luxury and expense which was almost lost on the unpractised eye of Catherine, who saw little more than its spaciousness and the number of their attendants. Of the former, she spoke aloud her admiration; and the general, with a very gracious countenance, acknowledged that it was by no means an ill-sized room, and further confessed that, though as careless on such subjects as most people, he did look upon a tolerably large eating-room as one of the necessaries of life; he supposed, however, ‘that she must have been used to much better-sized apartments at Mr. Allen’s?’
凯瑟琳因他讲话的强调而浑身发抖，她坐在那儿，脸色苍白，气喘吁吁，心情极其谦卑，关心着他的孩子们，厌恶着旧箱子。将军看着她，恢复了礼貌，剩下的时间都在责骂他的女儿，因为她愚蠢地催促她美丽的朋友，而她根本没有必要匆忙进来，而她却因匆忙而气喘吁吁。但凯瑟琳根本无法克服双重痛苦：让她的朋友参加一场讲座，而她自己又是个大傻瓜，直到他们愉快地坐在餐桌旁，将军脸上洋溢着得意的微笑，胃口也很好。她自己的，让她恢复了平静。餐厅是一间高贵的房间，其尺寸适合比常用的客厅大得多的客厅，并且以一种奢华和昂贵的风格布置，这在凯瑟琳的外行眼中几乎被忽视了，她看到了只不过是它的宽敞和随从的数量而已。对于前者，她大声表达了自己的钦佩之情；将军脸上带着非常和蔼的表情，承认这绝不是一个大小不合适的房间，并进一步承认，尽管他和大多数人一样在这些问题上粗心大意，但他确实将一间还算大的餐厅视为一个餐厅。生活必需品；然而，他猜想，“她一定已经习惯了艾伦先生家更大的公寓吧？”

‘No, indeed,’ was Catherine’s honest assurance; ‘Mr. Allen’s dining-parlour was not more than half as large,’ and she had never seen so large a room as this in her life. The general’s good humour increased. Why, as he had such rooms, he thought it would be simple not to make use of them; but, upon his honour, he believed there might be more comfort in rooms of only half their size. Mr. Allen’s house, he was sure, must be exactly of the true size for rational happiness.
“不，确实如此，”凯瑟琳诚实地保证。 '先生。艾伦的餐厅不超过一半大，”她一生中从未见过这么大的房间。将军的幽默感增加了。嘿，既然他有这样的房间，他认为不使用它们也很简单；但是，他认为不使用它们很简单。但是，以他的名誉担保，他相信只有一半大小的房间可能会更舒适。他确信，艾伦先生的房子必须符合理性幸福的真实尺寸。

The evening passed without any further disturbance, and, in the occasional absence of General Tilney, with much positive cheerfulness. It was only in his presence that Catherine felt the smallest fatigue from her journey; and even then, even in moments of languor or restraint, a sense of general happiness preponderated, and she could think of her friends in Bath without one wish of being with them.
整个晚上没有任何进一步的干扰，而且，蒂尔尼将军偶尔缺席，气氛非常愉快。只有他在场，凯瑟琳才感到旅途中最轻微的疲劳。即使在那时，即使在疲倦或克制的时刻，一种普遍的幸福感占了上风，她可以想起她在巴斯的朋友们，却不想和他们在一起。

The night was stormy; the wind had been rising at intervals the whole afternoon; and by the time the party broke up, it blew and rained violently. Catherine, as she crossed the hall, listened to the tempest with sensations of awe; and, when she heard it rage round a corner of the ancient building and close with sudden fury a distant door, felt for the first time that she was really in an abbey. Yes, these were characteristic sounds; they brought to her recollection a countless variety of dreadful situations and horrid scenes, which such buildings had witnessed, and such storms ushered in; and most heartily did she rejoice in the happier circumstances attending her entrance within walls so solemn! She had nothing to dread from midnight assassins or drunken gallants. Henry had certainly been only in jest in what he had told her that morning. In a house so furnished, and so guarded, she could have nothing to explore or to suffer, and might go to her bedroom as securely as if it had been her own chamber at Fullerton. Thus wisely fortifying her mind, as she proceeded upstairs, she was enabled, especially on perceiving that Miss Tilney slept only two doors from her, to enter her room with a tolerably stout heart; and her spirits were immediately assisted by the cheerful blaze of a wood fire. ‘How much better is this,’ said she, as she walked to the fender — ‘how much better to find a fire ready lit, than to have to wait shivering in the cold till all the family are in bed, as so many poor girls have been obliged to do, and then to have a faithful old servant frightening one by coming in with a faggot! How glad I am that Northanger is what it is! If it had been like some other places, I do not know that, in such a night as this, I could have answered for my courage: but now, to be sure, there is nothing to alarm one.’
夜晚风雨交加；整个下午，风时断时续。聚会散去时，天刮风下雨。凯瑟琳穿过大厅时，怀着敬畏的心情聆听着暴风雨的声音。当她听到它在古老建筑的一个角落里肆虐，并突然猛烈地关闭远处的一扇门时，她第一次感觉到自己真的是在一座修道院里。是的，这些都是典型的声音；这些建筑给她带来了无数可怕的情景和可怕的场景，这些建筑见证了这些，这些暴风雨也给她带来了无数的回忆。她为自己进入如此庄严的围墙而感到更加幸福！她并不害怕半夜的刺客或醉酒的豪侠。亨利那天早上对她说的话当然只是开玩笑。在一栋布置得如此齐全、守卫如此严密的房子里，她没有什么可探索的，也没有什么可受苦的，她可以安全地去她的卧室，就像那是她在富勒顿的自己的房间一样。这样，当她上楼时，她明智地强化了自己的思想，特别是当她意识到蒂尔尼小姐睡在离她只有两扇门的地方时，她能够带着一颗还算坚强的心进入她的房间；柴火的欢快火焰立刻让她精神振奋。 “这该多好啊，”她一边走到挡泥板边说道，“找到一堆已经点燃的火，比在寒冷中瑟瑟发抖，直到全家人都上床睡觉要好得多，就像许多穷人那样。”女孩们不得不这样做，然后就有一个忠实的老仆人带着一个基佬进来吓唬人！我多么高兴诺桑觉就是这样！ 如果它像其他地方一样，我不知道，在这样的夜晚，我是否可以回答我的勇气：但现在，可以肯定的是，没有什么值得惊慌的。’

She looked round the room. The window curtains seemed in motion. It could be nothing but the violence of the wind penetrating through the divisions of the shutters; and she stepped boldly forward, carelessly humming a tune, to assure herself of its being so, peeped courageously behind each curtain, saw nothing on either low window seat to scare her, and on placing a hand against the shutter, felt the strongest conviction of the wind’s force. A glance at the old chest, as she turned away from this examination, was not without its use; she scorned the causeless fears of an idle fancy, and began with a most happy indifference to prepare herself for bed. ‘She should take her time; she should not hurry herself; she did not care if she were the last person up in the house. But she would not make up her fire; that would seem cowardly, as if she wished for the protection of light after she were in bed.’ The fire therefore died away, and Catherine, having spent the best part of an hour in her arrangements, was beginning to think of stepping into bed, when, on giving a parting glance round the room, she was struck by the appearance of a high, old-fashioned black cabinet, which, though in a situation conspicuous enough, had never caught her notice before. Henry’s words, his description of the ebony cabinet which was to escape her observation at first, immediately rushed across her; and though there could be nothing really in it, there was something whimsical, it was certainly a very remarkable coincidence! She took her candle and looked closely at the cabinet. It was not absolutely ebony and gold; but it was japan, black and yellow japan of the handsomest kind; and as she held her candle, the yellow had very much the effect of gold. The key was in the door, and she had a strange fancy to look into it; not, however, with the smallest expectation of finding anything, but it was so very odd, after what Henry had said. In short, she could not sleep till she had examined it. So, placing the candle with great caution on a chair, she seized the key with a very tremulous hand and tried to turn it; but it resisted her utmost strength. Alarmed, but not discouraged, she tried it another way; a bolt flew, and she believed herself successful; but how strangely mysterious! The door was still immovable. She paused a moment in breathless wonder. The wind roared down the chimney, the rain beat in torrents against the windows, and everything seemed to speak the awfulness of her situation. To retire to bed, however, unsatisfied on such a point, would be vain, since sleep must be impossible with the consciousness of a cabinet so mysteriously closed in her immediate vicinity. Again, therefore, she applied herself to the key, and after moving it in every possible way for some instants with the determined celerity of hope’s last effort, the door suddenly yielded to her hand: her heart leaped with exultation at such a victory, and having thrown open each folding door, the second being secured only by bolts of less wonderful construction than the lock, though in that her eye could not discern anything unusual, a double range of small drawers appeared in view, with some larger drawers above and below them; and in the centre, a small door, closed also with a lock and key, secured in all probability a cavity of importance.
她环顾房间。窗帘似乎在动。这可能只是风从百叶窗缝隙中吹过的猛烈声。她大胆地向前走去，漫不经心地哼着一支曲子，让自己确信事情确实如此，她勇敢地向每扇窗帘后面看去，在两个低矮的靠窗座位上没有看到任何吓到她的东西，当她把手放在百叶窗上时，感到最强烈的信念风的力量。当她转身离开这次检查时，瞥了一眼旧箱子，这并不是没有用处的。她对无端幻想的无缘无故的恐惧嗤之以鼻，并以一种最幸福的漠然态度开始准备睡觉。 “她应该慢慢来；她不应该着急；她不在乎她是否是房子里最后一个人。但她不肯生火。火就这样熄灭了，凯瑟琳在安排上花了大半个小时，开始考虑上床睡觉了。临别时，她环视房间一圈，被一个高高的、老式的黑色柜子的外观所震惊，虽然它的位置足够显眼，但她以前从未注意到过这个柜子。亨利的话，他对乌木柜子的描述，一开始是为了逃避她的注意，但她立刻就意识到了。虽然其中不可能有什么真实的东西，但其中却有一些异想天开的东西，这确实是一个非常了不起的巧合！她拿起蜡烛，仔细地看着柜子。它并不完全是乌木和金子；它也不是绝对的乌木和金子。但这是日本，黑色和黄色的日本是最漂亮的。当她举着蜡烛时，黄色很像金色。 钥匙在门里，她有一种奇怪的想法，想去看看它；然而，并没有丝毫希望能找到任何东西，但在亨利说完之后，事情实在是太奇怪了。简而言之，在检查之前她无法入睡。于是，她小心翼翼地将蜡烛放在椅子上，用颤抖的手抓住钥匙，试图转动它；但它却被锁住了。但这却抵挡住了她最大的力量。她感到震惊，但并没有灰心，她尝试了另一种方法；一道闪电飞来，她相信自己成功了；但这是多么奇怪的神秘啊！门依然纹丝不动。她惊讶得喘不过气来，停顿了一会儿。风从烟囱里呼啸而下，倾盆大雨拍打着窗户，一切似乎都在诉说着她处境的可怕。然而，如果在这一点上不满意，就上床睡觉是徒劳的，因为在她附近有一个如此神秘地关闭的柜子的意识下，睡眠肯定是不可能的。因此，她再次把自己放在钥匙上，以希望的最后努力的坚定速度，以各种可能的方式移动了它几秒钟后，门突然屈服于她的手：她的心因这样的胜利而欣喜若狂，并且打开每扇折叠门后，第二扇门只用结构不如锁那么奇妙的螺栓固定，尽管她的眼睛无法看出任何异常，但视野中出现了两排小抽屉，上面和下面都有一些较大的抽屉他们;中央有一扇小门，也用锁和钥匙关着，很可能是一个重要的空洞。

Catherine’s heart beat quick, but her courage did not fail her. With a cheek flushed by hope, and an eye straining with curiosity, her fingers grasped the handle of a drawer and drew it forth. It was entirely empty. With less alarm and greater eagerness she seized a second, a third, a fourth; each was equally empty. Not one was left unsearched, and in not one was anything found. Well read in the art of concealing a treasure, the possibility of false linings to the drawers did not escape her, and she felt round each with anxious acuteness in vain. The place in the middle alone remained now unexplored; and though she had ‘never from the first had the smallest idea of finding anything in any part of the cabinet, and was not in the least disappointed at her ill success thus far, it would be foolish not to examine it thoroughly while she was about it.’ It was some time however before she could unfasten the door, the same difficulty occurring in the management of this inner lock as of the outer; but at length it did open; and not vain, as hitherto, was her search; her quick eyes directly fell on a roll of paper pushed back into the further part of the cavity, apparently for concealment, and her feelings at that moment were indescribable. Her heart fluttered, her knees trembled, and her cheeks grew pale. She seized, with an unsteady hand, the precious manuscript, for half a glance sufficed to ascertain written characters; and while she acknowledged with awful sensations this striking exemplification of what Henry had foretold, resolved instantly to peruse every line before she attempted to rest.
凯瑟琳的心跳加快，但她的勇气并没有失败。她的脸颊因希望而涨红，眼睛因好奇而紧张，她的手指抓住抽屉的把手，将它拉了出来。里面完全是空的。她抓住了第二个、第三个、第四个，但不再那么惊慌，而是更加急切。每个人都同样空虚。没有一处不被搜查，没有一处没有发现任何东西。她深谙隐藏宝藏的艺术，她没有逃过抽屉里有假衬里的可能性，她带着焦虑的敏锐感四处摸索，但徒劳无功。只有中间的地方现在还没有被探索过。虽然她从一开始就没有想过要在柜子的任何部分找到任何东西，而且对迄今为止的失败也没有丝毫失望，但在她正在寻找的时候不彻底检查一下是愚蠢的。然而过了一段时间，她才能够打开门，内锁的管理与外锁的管理同样存在困难。但它最终还是打开了。迄今为止，她的寻找并没有白费。她敏捷的目光直接落在了被推回腔体深处的一卷纸上，显然是为了隐藏，那一刻的心情难以形容。她的心狂跳，双膝颤抖，脸颊变得苍白。她用颤抖的手接过这份珍贵的手稿，扫了一眼就足以辨认出上面的文字；虽然她带着可怕的感觉承认了亨利所预言的这一惊人例证，但她立即决定在尝试休息之前仔细阅读每一行。

The dimness of the light her candle emitted made her turn to it with alarm; but there was no danger of its sudden extinction; it had yet some hours to burn; and that she might not have any greater difficulty in distinguishing the writing than what its ancient date might occasion, she hastily snuffed it. Alas! It was snuffed and extinguished in one. A lamp could not have expired with more awful effect. Catherine, for a few moments, was motionless with horror. It was done completely; not a remnant of light in the wick could give hope to the rekindling breath. Darkness impenetrable and immovable filled the room. A violent gust of wind, rising with sudden fury, added fresh horror to the moment. Catherine trembled from head to foot. In the pause which succeeded, a sound like receding footsteps and the closing of a distant door struck on her affrighted ear. Human nature could support no more. A cold sweat stood on her forehead, the manuscript fell from her hand, and groping her way to the bed, she jumped hastily in, and sought some suspension of agony by creeping far underneath the clothes. To close her eyes in sleep that night, she felt must be entirely out of the question. With a curiosity so justly awakened, and feelings in every way so agitated, repose must be absolutely impossible. The storm too abroad so dreadful! She had not been used to feel alarm from wind, but now every blast seemed fraught with awful intelligence. The manuscript so wonderfully found, so wonderfully accomplishing the morning’s prediction, how was it to be accounted for? What could it contain? To whom could it relate? By what means could it have been so long concealed? And how singularly strange that it should fall to her lot to discover it! Till she had made herself mistress of its contents, however, she could have neither repose nor comfort; and with the sun’s first rays she was determined to peruse it. But many were the tedious hours which must yet intervene. She shuddered, tossed about in her bed, and envied every quiet sleeper. The storm still raged, and various were the noises, more terrific even than the wind, which struck at intervals on her startled ear. The very curtains of her bed seemed at one moment in motion, and at another the lock of her door was agitated, as if by the attempt of somebody to enter. Hollow murmurs seemed to creep along the gallery, and more than once her blood was chilled by the sound of distant moans. Hour after hour passed away, and the wearied Catherine had heard three proclaimed by all the clocks in the house before the tempest subsided or she unknowingly fell fast asleep.
蜡烛发出的微弱光芒使她惊慌地转向蜡烛。但并不存在突然灭绝的危险；距离燃烧还有几个小时；为了让她辨认出这些文字，可能不会比它的年代久远的文字更困难，她赶紧把它掐灭了。唉!它被一并熄灭了。一盏灯失效了，效果再糟糕不过了。凯瑟琳有一会儿因恐惧而一动不动。事情已经彻底完成了；灯芯中的任何一丝光亮都无法给重新点燃的呼吸带来希望。房间里一片漆黑，无法穿透，一动不动。一阵猛烈的狂风突然袭来，给这一刻增添了新的恐怖。凯瑟琳从头到脚都在颤抖。在随后的停顿中，一种类似远去的脚步声和远处的门关上的声音传入她惊恐的耳朵。人性再也支撑不住了。她额头冒出冷汗，手稿从手中滑落，她摸索着走到床边，急忙跳了进去，爬到衣服底下寻求缓解痛苦。那天晚上闭上眼睛睡觉，她觉得肯定是不可能的。好奇心如此被唤醒，各方面的感情又如此激动，想要安宁是绝对不可能的。国外的风暴也太可怕了！她不习惯感受到风带来的警报，但现在每一次风似乎都充满了可怕的智慧。这份手稿如此奇妙地被发现，如此奇妙地完成了早上的预测，这要如何解释呢？它可能包含什么？它与谁有关？到底是用什么手段才能隐藏这么久呢？发现它的人竟然落到了她的身上，这是多么奇怪啊！ 然而，在她掌握其中的内容之前，她既无法平静，也无法感到安慰；当太阳升起第一缕阳光时，她决定仔细阅读它。但还有许多乏味的时间必须介入。她浑身颤抖，在床上翻来覆去，羡慕每一个安静睡觉的人。暴风雨仍在肆虐，各种声音，甚至比风声还要可怕，时不时地敲打在她受惊的耳朵上。她床上的窗帘似乎一会儿在动，一会儿她的门锁被搅动了，好像有人试图进来。空洞的低语声似乎在走廊里蔓延，远处的呻吟声不止一次地让她的血液变得寒冷。一个小时又一个小时过去了，疲倦的凯瑟琳听到屋里所有的钟都报了三下，然后暴风雨才平息，或者她不知不觉地睡着了。

Chapter 22
第22章

The housemaid’s folding back her window-shutters at eight o’clock the next day was the sound which first roused Catherine; and she opened her eyes, wondering that they could ever have been closed, on objects of cheerfulness; her fire was already burning, and a bright morning had succeeded the tempest of the night. Instantaneously, with the consciousness of existence, returned her recollection of the manuscript; and springing from the bed in the very moment of the maid’s going away, she eagerly collected every scattered sheet which had burst from the roll on its falling to the ground, and flew back to enjoy the luxury of their perusal on her pillow. She now plainly saw that she must not expect a manuscript of equal length with the generality of what she had shuddered over in books, for the roll, seeming to consist entirely of small disjointed sheets, was altogether but of trifling size, and much less than she had supposed it to be at first.
第二天八点钟，女仆关上百叶窗的声音首先惊醒了凯瑟琳。她睁开眼睛，好奇自己是否可以在快乐的事物上闭上。她的火已经燃烧起来，一夜的暴风雨过后，迎来了一个明亮的早晨。瞬间，她带着存在意识，恢复了对手稿的记忆；就在女仆走开的那一刻，她从床上跳了起来，急切地收集了掉落在地上的纸卷上散落的每一片床单，然后飞回来享受他们在枕头上细读的奢侈。她现在清楚地看到，她一定不能指望一份与她在书本上颤抖的书一样长的手稿，因为这卷书似乎完全由零散的小纸片组成，完全是微不足道的尺寸，而且比书本要小得多。起初她也这么认为。

Her greedy eye glanced rapidly over a page. She started at its import. Could it be possible, or did not her senses play her false? An inventory of linen, in coarse and modern characters, seemed all that was before her! If the evidence of sight might be trusted, she held a washing-bill in her hand. She seized another sheet, and saw the same articles with little variation; a third, a fourth, and a fifth presented nothing new. Shirts, stockings, cravats, and waistcoats faced her in each. Two others, penned by the same hand, marked an expenditure scarcely more interesting, in letters, hair-powder, shoe-string, and breeches-ball. And the larger sheet, which had enclosed the rest, seemed by its first cramp line, ‘To poultice chestnut mare’ — a farrier’s bill! Such was the collection of papers (left perhaps, as she could then suppose, by the negligence of a servant in the place whence she had taken them) which had filled her with expectation and alarm, and robbed her of half her night’s rest! She felt humbled to the dust. Could not the adventure of the chest have taught her wisdom? A corner of it, catching her eye as she lay, seemed to rise up in judgment against her. Nothing could now be clearer than the absurdity of her recent fancies. To suppose that a manuscript of many generations back could have remained undiscovered in a room such as that, so modern, so habitable! — Or that she should be the first to possess the skill of unlocking a cabinet, the key of which was open to all!
她贪婪的眼睛飞快地扫过一页。她从它的进口开始。这有可能吗，还是她的感觉没有发挥作用？她面前似乎只有一堆亚麻布，上面写着粗糙而现代的文字！如果目击证据可信的话，她手里拿着一张洗衣单。她又抓起一张纸，看到的都是同样的文章，几乎没有什么变化。第三个、第四个和第五个没有什么新内容。衬衫、长筒袜、领带和马甲都面向她。另外两封出自同一个人之手，用信件、发粉、鞋带和马裤球标记了同样有趣的开支。而更大的床单，包住了其余的，从它的第一条抽筋线看来，“给栗子母马抹药膏”——蹄铁匠的账单！这就是一堆文件（据她当时推测，也许是由于仆人的疏忽而留在了她取走文件的地方），这让她充满了期待和惊慌，并剥夺了她半夜的休息！她感到自己卑微到了尘埃里。宝箱的冒险难道不能教会她智慧吗？当她躺着的时候，它的一个角引起了她的注意，似乎在对她进行审判。现在没有什么比她最近的幻想的荒谬性更清楚的了。想象一下，许多代以前的手稿竟然在这样一个如此现代、如此适宜居住的房间里未被发现！ ——或者说，她应该是第一个拥有打开柜子的技能，柜子的钥匙是向所有人开放的！

How could she have so imposed on herself? Heaven forbid that Henry Tilney should ever know her folly! And it was in a great measure his own doing, for had not the cabinet appeared so exactly to agree with his description of her adventures, she should never have felt the smallest curiosity about it. This was the only comfort that occurred. Impatient to get rid of those hateful evidences of her folly, those detestable papers then scattered over the bed, she rose directly, and folding them up as nearly as possible in the same shape as before, returned them to the same spot within the cabinet, with a very hearty wish that no untoward accident might ever bring them forward again, to disgrace her even with herself.
她怎么可以这么强求自己呢？但愿亨利·蒂尔尼永远不会知道她的愚蠢！这在很大程度上是他自己造成的，因为如果不是内阁成员完全同意他对她的冒险经历的描述，她根本不会对此感到好奇。这是唯一的安慰。她迫不及待地想把那些可恶的证据扔掉，那些可恶的文件散落在床上，她直接起身，把它们尽可能地折叠成和以前一样的形状，放回柜子里的原处，衷心希望他们再也不会遭遇不幸的事故，甚至让她自己蒙羞。

Why the locks should have been so difficult to open, however, was still something remarkable, for she could now manage them with perfect ease. In this there was surely something mysterious, and she indulged in the flattering suggestion for half a minute, till the possibility of the door’s having been at first unlocked, and of being herself its fastener, darted into her head, and cost her another blush.
然而，为什么锁这么难打开，仍然是一件了不起的事情，因为她现在可以轻松地打开它们。这其中肯定有什么神秘的地方，她沉迷于这个讨人喜欢的建议了半分钟，直到门最初被打开，而她自己就是门的紧固件的可能性突然出现在她的脑海里，让她又脸红了。

She got away as soon as she could from a room in which her conduct produced such unpleasant reflections, and found her way with all speed to the breakfast-parlour, as it had been pointed out to her by Miss Tilney the evening before. Henry was alone in it; and his immediate hope of her having been undisturbed by the tempest, with an arch reference to the character of the building they inhabited, was rather distressing. For the world would she not have her weakness suspected, and yet, unequal to an absolute falsehood, was constrained to acknowledge that the wind had kept her awake a little. ‘But we have a charming morning after it,’ she added, desiring to get rid of the subject; ‘and storms and sleeplessness are nothing when they are over. What beautiful hyacinths! I have just learnt to love a hyacinth.’
她尽快离开了一个她的行为引起了如此不愉快的反思的房间，并以最快的速度找到了早餐室，正如蒂尔尼小姐前一天晚上向她指出的那样。亨利独自一人在其中。他立即希望她没有受到暴风雨的干扰，这主要是指他们所居住的建筑物的特点，这是相当令人痛苦的。因为世界不愿意让她的弱点被怀疑，然而，这不等于绝对的谎言，她不得不承认风让她有点清醒。 “但之后我们度过了一个愉快的早晨，”她补充道，想摆脱这个话题。 ‘当暴风雨和失眠结束后，一切都不再是问题了。多么美丽的风信子啊！我刚刚学会了爱风信子。

‘And how might you learn? By accident or argument?’
‘那么你可以怎样学习呢？是偶然还是争论？

‘Your sister taught me; I cannot tell how. Mrs. Allen used to take pains, year after year, to make me like them; but I never could, till I saw them the other day in Milsom Street; I am naturally indifferent about flowers.’
‘你姐姐教我的；我不知道怎么办。艾伦太太年复一年地煞费苦心地让我喜欢他们。但我一直没能做到，直到有一天我在米尔瑟姆街看到了他们。我天生对花漠不关心。

‘But now you love a hyacinth. So much the better. You have gained a new source of enjoyment, and it is well to have as many holds upon happiness as possible. Besides, a taste for flowers is always desirable in your sex, as a means of getting you out of doors, and tempting you to more frequent exercise than you would otherwise take. And though the love of a hyacinth may be rather domestic, who can tell, the sentiment once raised, but you may in time come to love a rose?’
“但现在你喜欢风信子了。”那就更好了。你已经获得了新的享受源泉，尽可能多地抓住幸福是件好事。此外，对花的品味对于你的性爱来说总是令人向往的，因为它可以让你走出家门，并诱惑你比平时更频繁地锻炼身体。虽然对风信子的爱可能相当家庭化，但谁能说，一旦感情升起，你也许会爱上玫瑰呢？

‘But I do not want any such pursuit to get me out of doors. The pleasure of walking and breathing fresh air is enough for me, and in fine weather I am out more than half my time. Mamma says I am never within.’
“但我不希望任何这样的追求让我走出家门。散步和呼吸新鲜空气的乐趣对我来说就足够了，天气好的时候我有一半以上的时间都在外面。妈妈说我从来不在里面。

‘At any rate, however, I am pleased that you have learnt to love a hyacinth. The mere habit of learning to love is the thing; and a teachableness of disposition in a young lady is a great blessing. Has my sister a pleasant mode of instruction?’
“无论如何，我很高兴你学会了喜欢风信子。学习爱的习惯才是最重要的；一位年轻女士的受教性是一种莫大的祝福。我姐姐的教学方式愉快吗？

Catherine was saved the embarrassment of attempting an answer by the entrance of the general, whose smiling compliments announced a happy state of mind, but whose gentle hint of sympathetic early rising did not advance her composure.
将军进来后，凯瑟琳免去了试图回答的尴尬，将军微笑的恭维表明了她的幸福心情，但早起的温和暗示并没有让她平静下来。

The elegance of the breakfast set forced itself on Catherine’s notice when they were seated at table; and, lucidly, it had been the general’s choice. He was enchanted by her approbation of his taste, confessed it to be neat and simple, thought it right to encourage the manufacture of his country; and for his part, to his uncritical palate, the tea was as well flavoured from the clay of Staffordshire, as from that of Dresden or Save. But this was quite an old set, purchased two years ago. The manufacture was much improved since that time; he had seen some beautiful specimens when last in town, and had he not been perfectly without vanity of that kind, might have been tempted to order a new set. He trusted, however, that an opportunity might ere long occur of selecting one — though not for himself. Catherine was probably the only one of the party who did not understand him.
当他们坐在餐桌旁时，优雅的早餐套餐引起了凯瑟琳的注意。显然，这是将军的选择。他对她对他品味的认可感到着迷，承认它整洁而简单，认为鼓励他的国家的制造业是正确的。就他而言，按照他不加批判的口味，茶的味道既来自斯塔福德郡的粘土，也来自德累斯顿或萨维的粘土。但这是一套相当旧的套装，是两年前购买的。从那时起，制造工艺有了很大改进。上次来城里时，他看到了一些漂亮的标本，要不是他完全没有那种虚荣心，他可能会忍不住订购一套新的。然而，他相信，很快就会有机会选择一个人——尽管不是为他自己。凯瑟琳大概是一行人中唯一不理解他的人了。

Shortly after breakfast Henry left them for Woodston, where business required and would keep him two or three days. They all attended in the hall to see him mount his horse, and immediately on re-entering the breakfast-room, Catherine walked to a window in the hope of catching another glimpse of his figure. ‘This is a somewhat heavy call upon your brother’s fortitude,’ observed the general to Eleanor. ‘Woodston will make but a sombre appearance today.’
早餐后不久，亨利就离开他们前往伍德斯顿，那里有生意需要，他会在那里待两三天。他们都在大厅里观看他上马，凯瑟琳一回到早餐室，就立即走到窗户前，希望能再看一眼他的身影。 “这对你哥哥的毅力来说是一个沉重的考验，”将军对埃莉诺说道。 “伍德斯顿今天的表现将会很阴沉。”

‘Is it a pretty place?’ asked Catherine.
“那地方漂亮吗？”凯瑟琳问。

‘What say you, Eleanor? Speak your opinion, for ladies can best tell the taste of ladies in regard to places as well as men. I think it would be acknowledged by the most impartial eye to have many recommendations. The house stands among fine meadows facing the south-east, with an excellent kitchen-garden in the same aspect; the walls surrounding which I built and stocked myself about ten years ago, for the benefit of my son. It is a family living, Miss Morland; and the property in the place being chiefly my own, you may believe I take care that it shall not be a bad one. Did Henry’s income depend solely on this living, he would not be ill-provided for. Perhaps it may seem odd, that with only two younger children, I should think any profession necessary for him; and certainly there are moments when we could all wish him disengaged from every tie of business. But though I may not exactly make converts of you young ladies, I am sure your father, Miss Morland, would agree with me in thinking it expedient to give every young man some employment. The money is nothing, it is not an object, but employment is the thing. Even Frederick, my eldest son, you see, who will perhaps inherit as considerable a landed property as any private man in the county, has his profession.’
“你说什么，埃莉诺？说出你的意见，因为女士们最能辨别女士们对地方和男士的品味。我认为最公正的眼光会承认有很多建议。房子坐落在美丽的草地上，面朝东南，在同一方向有一个漂亮的菜园。大约十年前，我为了儿子的利益而建造并储存了周围的围墙。这是一个家庭生活，莫兰小姐；而且这个地方的财产主要是我自己的，你可以相信我会照顾它不会是一个坏的。如果亨利的收入仅靠这一点维持生计的话，他的生活也不会拮据。也许这看起来很奇怪，因为我只有两个年幼的孩子，我认为他有必要从事任何职业。当然，有些时候我们都希望他摆脱一切商业束缚。虽然我可能不会完全改变你们年轻女士们的信仰，但我相信你们的父亲莫兰小姐会同意我的观点，认为给每个年轻人一些工作是有利的。钱什么都不是，它不是一个物体，重要的是就业。你瞧，就连我的长子弗雷德里克（Frederick）也有他的职业，他也许会像县里的任何一个私人一样继承大量的土地财产。

The imposing effect of this last argument was equal to his wishes. The silence of the lady proved it to be unanswerable.
最后这个论点所产生的震撼效果与他的愿望是一致的。那位女士的沉默证明这是无法回答的。

Something had been said the evening before of her being shown over the house, and he now offered himself as her conductor; and though Catherine had hoped to explore it accompanied only by his daughter, it was a proposal of too much happiness in itself, under any circumstances, not to be gladly accepted; for she had been already eighteen hours in the abbey, and had seen only a few of its rooms. The netting-box, just leisurely drawn forth, was closed with joyful haste, and she was ready to attend him in a moment. ‘And when they had gone over the house, he promised himself moreover the pleasure of accompanying her into the shrubberies and garden.’ She curtsied her acquiescence. ‘But perhaps it might be more agreeable to her to make those her first object. The weather was at present favourable, and at this time of year the uncertainty was very great of its continuing so. Which would she prefer? He was equally at her service. Which did his daughter think would most accord with her fair friend’s wishes? But he thought he could discern. Yes, he certainly read in Miss Morland’s eyes a judicious desire of making use of the present smiling weather. But when did she judge amiss? The abbey would be always safe and dry. He yielded implicitly, and would fetch his hat and attend them in a moment.’ He left the room, and Catherine, with a disappointed, anxious face, began to speak of her unwillingness that he should be taking them out of doors against his own inclination, under a mistaken idea of pleasing her; but she was stopped by Miss Tilney’s saying, with a little confusion, ‘I believe it will be wisest to take the morning while it is so fine; and do not be uneasy on my father’s account; he always walks out at this time of day.’
前一天晚上有人说过要带她参观房子，现在他提出自己担任她的导游。尽管凯瑟琳希望只在女儿的陪伴下探索这个地方，但无论在什么情况下，这个提议本身就太幸福了，不能欣然接受。因为她已经在修道院待了十八个小时，只参观了其中的几个房间。网箱刚刚被悠闲地拉出来，便高兴地匆忙合上，她准备好一会儿就去照顾他。 “当他们巡视完房子后，他还向自己保证，很乐意陪她走进灌木丛和花园。”她行了屈膝礼，表示默许。 “但也许她更愿意把这些作为她的首要目标。目前天气状况良好，每年的这个时候，天气状况能否持续下去的不确定性很大。她更喜欢哪个？他同样愿意为她服务。他的女儿认为哪一个最符合她好朋友的愿望？但他认为他能够辨别。是的，他确实从莫兰小姐的眼中看出了利用目前宜人的天气的明智愿望。可她什么时候判断错了呢？修道院将永远安全、干燥。他含蓄地让步了，一会儿就会拿帽子来招待他们。”他离开了房间，凯瑟琳满脸失望、焦虑，开始说她不愿意他带他们出去反对他自己。出于取悦她的错误想法；但她被蒂尔尼小姐的话打断了，她的语气有点困惑：“我相信趁着天气晴朗的早晨去是最明智的。”请不要为我父亲的缘故感到不安；他总是在一天中的这个时候出去。”

Catherine did not exactly know how this was to be understood. Why was Miss Tilney embarrassed? Could there be any unwillingness on the general’s side to show her over the abbey? The proposal was his own. And was not it odd that he should always take his walk so early? Neither her father nor Mr. Allen did so. It was certainly very provoking. She was all impatience to see the house, and had scarcely any curiosity about the grounds. If Henry had been with them indeed! But now she should not know what was picturesque when she saw it. Such were her thoughts, but she kept them to herself, and put on her bonnet in patient discontent.
凯瑟琳完全不知道该如何理解这一点。蒂尔尼小姐为何感到尴尬？难道将军那边不愿意带她参观修道院吗？这个提议是他自己提出的。他总是这么早就出门散步，这不是很奇怪吗？她的父亲和艾伦先生都没有这样做。这确实非常令人兴奋。她迫不及待地想看看这座房子，对周围的环境几乎没有任何好奇心。如果亨利真的和他们在一起就好了！但现在她看到的时候应该不知道什么是如画的了。这是她的想法，但她把这些想法藏在心里，并耐心地不满地戴上帽子。

She was struck, however, beyond her expectation, by the grandeur of the abbey, as she saw it for the first time from the lawn. The whole building enclosed a large court; and two sides of the quadrangle, rich in Gothic ornaments, stood forward for admiration. The remainder was shut off by knolls of old trees, or luxuriant plantations, and the steep woody hills rising behind, to give it shelter, were beautiful even in the leafless month of March. Catherine had seen nothing to compare with it; and her feelings of delight were so strong, that without waiting for any better authority, she boldly burst forth in wonder and praise. The general listened with assenting gratitude; and it seemed as if his own estimation of Northanger had waited unfixed till that hour.
然而，当她第一次从草坪上看到修道院时，她对修道院的宏伟感到震惊，超出了她的预期。整座建筑围成一个大庭院；四合院的两侧，充满了哥特式的装饰，矗立在前，令人赞叹不已。其余的地方被老树的小丘或茂密的种植园隔开，后面耸立的陡峭的树木繁茂的山丘为它提供了庇护，即使在没有叶子的三月也很美丽。凯瑟琳没有见过任何可以与之相比的东西。她的喜悦之情如此强烈，以至于没有等待任何更好的权威，她就大胆地发出惊叹和赞美。将军听了，表示感激。似乎他自己对诺桑觉的评价一直等到那个时刻才确定。

The kitchen-garden was to be next admired, and he led the way to it across a small portion of the park.
接下来要欣赏菜园，他带路穿过公园的一小部分到达菜园。

The number of acres contained in this garden was such as Catherine could not listen to without dismay, being more than double the extent of all Mr. Allen’s, as well her father’s, including church-yard and orchard. The walls seemed countless in number, endless in length; a village of hot-houses seemed to arise among them, and a whole parish to be at work within the enclosure. The general was flattered by her looks of surprise, which told him almost as plainly, as he soon forced her to tell him in words, that she had never seen any gardens at all equal to them before; and he then modestly owned that, ‘without any ambition of that sort himself — without any solicitude about it — he did believe them to be unrivalled in the kingdom. If he had a hobby-horse, it was that. He loved a garden. Though careless enough in most matters of eating, he loved good fruit — or if he did not, his friends and children did. There were great vexations, however, attending such a garden as his. The utmost care could not always secure the most valuable fruits. The pinery had yielded only one hundred in the last year. Mr. Allen, he supposed, must feel these inconveniences as well as himself.’
这个花园的面积之多，凯瑟琳一听就感到沮丧，是艾伦先生以及她父亲的所有花园（包括教堂墓地和果园）面积的两倍多。墙壁似乎数量无数，长度无穷无尽。一个由温室组成的村庄似乎出现在其中，整个教区都在围墙内工作。将军对她惊讶的表情感到受宠若惊，这几乎同样清楚地告诉他，就像他很快强迫她用语言告诉他一样，她以前从未见过任何与它们相媲美的花园。然后他谦虚地承认，“他自己没有任何此类野心——没有任何担忧——他确实相信他们在王国中是无与伦比的。”如果说他有什么爱好的话，那就是这个了。他喜欢花园。尽管他在大多数饮食问题上都很粗心，但他还是喜欢好水果——或者即使他不喜欢，他的朋友和孩子们也喜欢。然而，参观他这样的花园却带来了很大的烦恼。尽最大努力并不总是能获得最有价值的果实。去年，松树的产量只有一百棵。他想，艾伦先生一定和他自己一样感受到了这些不便。

‘No, not at all. Mr. Allen did not care about the garden, and never went into it.’
'一点都不。艾伦先生并不关心这个花园，也从来没有进去过。

With a triumphant smile of self-satisfaction, the general wished he could do the same, for he never entered his, without being vexed in some way or other, by its falling short of his plan.
带着胜利的胜利微笑，将军希望他也能这样做，因为他从来没有进入过他的军队，而不会因为没有达到他的计划而以某种方式烦恼。

‘How were Mr. Allen’s succession-houses worked?’ describing the nature of his own as they entered them.
“艾伦先生的继承权是如何运作的？”在他们进入继承权时描述了他自己的继承权的性质。

‘Mr. Allen had only one small hot-house, which Mrs. Allen had the use of for her plants in winter, and there was a fire in it now and then.’
'先生。艾伦只有一间小温室，艾伦夫人冬天用它来种植植物，里面时不时会生火。

‘He is a happy man!’ said the general, with a look of very happy contempt.
“他是一个快乐的人！”将军说道，脸上带着非常快乐的轻蔑表情。

Having taken her into every division, and led her under every wall, till she was heartily weary of seeing and wondering, he suffered the girls at last to seize the advantage of an outer door, and then expressing his wish to examine the effect of some recent alterations about the tea-house, proposed it as no unpleasant extension of their walk, if Miss Morland were not tired. ‘But where are you going, Eleanor? Why do you choose that cold, damp path to it? Miss Morland will get wet. Our best way is across the park.’
他把她带进了每一个部门，带她到了每堵墙下面，直到她厌倦了看和想知道，他终于让女孩们抓住了外门的优势，然后表达了他希望检查一些效果的愿望。茶馆最近发生了一些变化，如果莫兰小姐不累的话，这并不是他们散步的不愉快的延伸。 “但是你要去哪里，埃莉诺？为什么要选择那条又冷又湿的路呢？莫兰小姐会被淋湿的。我们最好的方法是穿过公园。

‘This is so favourite a walk of mine,’ said Miss Tilney, ‘that I always think it the best and nearest way. But perhaps it may be damp.’
“这是我最喜欢的散步方式，”蒂尔尼小姐说，“我一直认为这是最好、最近的方式。”但也许它可能是潮湿的。”

It was a narrow winding path through a thick grove of old Scotch firs; and Catherine, struck by its gloomy aspect, and eager to enter it, could not, even by the general’s disapprobation, be kept from stepping forward. He perceived her inclination, and having again urged the plea of health in vain, was too polite to make further opposition. He excused himself, however, from attending them: ‘The rays of the sun were not too cheerful for him, and he would meet them by another course.’ He turned away; and Catherine was shocked to find how much her spirits were relieved by the separation. The shock, however, being less real than the relief, offered it no injury; and she began to talk with easy gaiety of the delightful melancholy which such a grove inspired.
这是一条狭窄蜿蜒的小路，穿过茂密的老苏格兰冷杉树林。凯瑟琳被它阴暗的外表所震惊，渴望进入它，即使将军不赞成，也无法阻止她走上前去。他察觉到了她的倾向，再次以健康为由，但没有成功，便礼貌地不再提出进一步的反对。然而，他借口没有去参加他们的活动：“阳光对他来说不太愉快，他会走另一条路来迎接他们。”他转过身去。凯瑟琳惊讶地发现，这次分离让她的精神轻松了很多。然而，震惊并不如解脱那么真实，并没有给它带来伤害。她开始轻松愉快地谈论这样一片小树林所引发的令人愉快的忧郁。

‘I am particularly fond of this spot,’ said her companion, with a sigh. ‘It was my mother’s favourite walk.’
“我特别喜欢这个地方，”她的同伴叹了口气说道。 “这是我母亲最喜欢的散步。”

Catherine had never heard Mrs. Tilney mentioned in the family before, and the interest excited by this tender remembrance showed itself directly in her altered countenance, and in the attentive pause with which she waited for something more.
凯瑟琳以前从未在家里听过蒂尔尼夫人，这种温柔的回忆所激发的兴趣直接表现在她改变的面容上，以及她等待更多事情的专注的停顿中。

‘I used to walk here so often with her!’ added Eleanor; ‘though I never loved it then, as I have loved it since. At that time indeed I used to wonder at her choice. But her memory endears it now.’
“我以前经常和她一起来这里散步！”埃莉诺补充道。 “虽然我当时从未喜欢过它，但从那以后我就一直喜欢它。当时我确实对她的选择感到好奇。但她的记忆现在变得更可爱了。

‘And ought it not,’ reflected Catherine, ‘to endear it to her husband? Yet the general would not enter it.’ Miss Tilney continuing silent, she ventured to say, ‘Her death must have been a great affliction!’
“难道不应该吗？”凯瑟琳想道，“为了让她丈夫更喜欢它？蒂尔尼小姐继续沉默，她大胆地说：“她的死一定是一种巨大的痛苦！”

‘A great and increasing one,’ replied the other, in a low voice. ‘I was only thirteen when it happened; and though I felt my loss perhaps as strongly as one so young could feel it, I did not, I could not, then know what a loss it was.’ She stopped for a moment, and then added, with great firmness, ‘I have no sister, you know — and though Henry — though my brothers are very affectionate, and Henry is a great deal here, which I am most thankful for, it is impossible for me not to be often solitary.’
“一个伟大的、不断增长的，”另一个低声回答。 “事情发生时我才十三岁；尽管我对自己的损失的感受可能像年轻人一样强烈，但我不知道，我也不可能知道那是一种多么大的损失。”她停顿了一会儿，然后非常坚定地补充道，“我你知道，我没有妹妹，尽管亨利，尽管我的兄弟们非常热情，亨利在这里也很重要，对此我深表感谢，但我不可能不经常感到孤独。

‘To be sure you must miss him very much.’
“当然，你一定非常想念他。”

‘A mother would have been always present. A mother would have been a constant friend; her influence would have been beyond all other.’
“母亲会一直在场。母亲会是一个永远的朋友；她的影响力将超越其他所有人。

‘Was she a very charming woman? Was she handsome? Was there any picture of her in the abbey? And why had she been so partial to that grove? Was it from dejection of spirits?’ — were questions now eagerly poured forth; the first three received a ready affirmative, the two others were passed by; and Catherine’s interest in the deceased Mrs. Tilney augmented with every question, whether answered or not. Of her unhappiness in marriage, she felt persuaded. The general certainly had been an unkind husband. He did not love her walk: could he therefore have loved her? And besides, handsome as he was, there was a something in the turn of his features which spoke his not having behaved well to her.
‘她是一个非常迷人的女人吗？她漂亮吗？修道院里有她的照片吗？为什么她如此偏爱那片小树林？是因为精神沮丧吗？”——现在人们急切地提出问题；前三个人得到了现成的肯定，另外两个人则被忽略了。凯瑟琳对已故蒂尔尼夫人的兴趣随着每一个问题的出现而增加，无论是否得到回答。对于自己婚姻中的不幸，她感到深信不疑。将军确实是个不仁慈的丈夫。他不喜欢她走路的样子：他能因此爱她吗？此外，尽管他很英俊，但他的五官却有一种变化表明他对她表现得不太好。

‘Her picture, I suppose,’ blushing at the consummate art of her own question, ‘hangs in your father’s room?’
“我想，”她因自己问题的完美艺术而脸红，“挂在你父亲的房间里？”

‘No; it was intended for the drawing-room; but my father was dissatisfied with the painting, and for some time it had no place. Soon after her death I obtained it for my own, and hung it in my bed-chamber — where I shall be happy to show it you; it is very like.’ Here was another proof. A portrait — very like — of a departed wife, not valued by the husband! He must have been dreadfully cruel to her!
'不;它是为客厅设计的；但父亲对这幅画不满意，有一段时间它没有放置。她死后不久，我就得到了它，把它挂在我的卧室里——我很乐意把它拿给你看。这是另一个证据。一幅肖像——非常像——一位已故妻子的肖像，不受丈夫的重视！他对她一定是太残忍了！

Catherine attempted no longer to hide from herself the nature of the feelings which, in spite of all his attentions, he had previously excited; and what had been terror and dislike before, was now absolute aversion. Yes, aversion! His cruelty to such a charming woman made him odious to her. She had often read of such characters, characters which Mr. Allen had been used to call unnatural and overdrawn; but here was proof positive of the contrary.
凯瑟琳不再试图向自己隐瞒他之前所激起的感情的本质，尽管他竭尽全力地关注着这种感情。之前的恐惧和厌恶，现在变成了绝对的厌恶。是的，厌恶！他对如此迷人的女人如此残忍，让她感到厌恶。她经常读到这样的人物，艾伦先生过去常说这些人物不自然、透支。但这里有相反的证据。

She had just settled this point when the end of the path brought them directly upon the general; and in spite of all her virtuous indignation, she found herself again obliged to walk with him, listen to him, and even to smile when he smiled. Being no longer able, however, to receive pleasure from the surrounding objects, she soon began to walk with lassitude; the general perceived it, and with a concern for her health, which seemed to reproach her for her opinion of him, was most urgent for returning with his daughter to the house. He would follow them in a quarter of an hour. Again they parted — but Eleanor was called back in half a minute to receive a strict charge against taking her friend round the abbey till his return. This second instance of his anxiety to delay what she so much wished for struck Catherine as very remarkable.
她刚刚解决了这个问题，小路的尽头就将他们直接带到了将军面前。尽管她满怀善意的愤慨，但她发现自己又不得不和他一起散步，听他讲话，甚至在他微笑时也微笑。然而，她再也无法从周围的事物中获得快乐，很快她就开始疲倦地行走。将军察觉到了这一点，出于对她健康的担忧，这似乎是在责备她对他的看法，所以当务之急是带着女儿回家。一刻钟后他就会跟上他们。他们再次分手——但埃莉诺半分钟后就被叫回来，受到严厉的指控，不得带她的朋友绕修道院转一圈，直到他回来。他第二次急于推迟她如此渴望的事情，这让凯瑟琳感到非常不寻常。

Chapter 23
第23章

An hour passed away before the general came in, spent, on the part of his young guest, in no very favourable consideration of his character. ‘This lengthened absence, these solitary rambles, did not speak a mind at ease, or a conscience void of reproach.’ At length he appeared; and, whatever might have been the gloom of his meditations, he could still smile with them. Miss Tilney, understanding in part her friend’s curiosity to see the house, soon revived the subject; and her father being, contrary to Catherine’s expectations, unprovided with any pretence for further delay, beyond that of stopping five minutes to order refreshments to be in the room by their return, was at last ready to escort them.
一个小时过去了，将军进来了，对于他的年轻客人来说，他并没有对他的性格做出任何有利的考虑。 “这么长时间的缺席，这些孤独的闲逛，并没有表现出一种轻松的心态，也没有表现出一种无罪的良心。”最后，他出现了。而且，无论他的冥想有多么阴郁，他仍然可以微笑着。蒂尔尼小姐部分理解了她朋友想看房子的好奇心，很快又重新提起了这个话题。与凯瑟琳的期望相反，她的父亲没有任何借口进一步拖延，除了在他们回来时停下来五分钟，在房间里点茶点外，他终于准备好护送他们了。

They set forward; and, with a grandeur of air, a dignified step, which caught the eye, but could not shake the doubts of the well-read Catherine, he led the way across the hall, through the common drawing-room and one useless antechamber, into a room magnificent both in size and furniture — the real drawing-room, used only with company of consequence. It was very noble — very grand — very charming! — was all that Catherine had to say, for her indiscriminating eye scarcely discerned the colour of the satin; and all minuteness of praise, all praise that had much meaning, was supplied by the general: the costliness or elegance of any room’s fitting-up could be nothing to her; she cared for no furniture of a more modern date than the fifteenth century. When the general had satisfied his own curiosity, in a close examination of every well-known ornament, they proceeded into the library, an apartment, in its way, of equal magnificence, exhibiting a collection of books, on which an humble man might have looked with pride. Catherine heard, admired, and wondered with more genuine feeling than before — gathered all that she could from this storehouse of knowledge, by running over the titles of half a shelf, and was ready to proceed. But suites of apartments did not spring up with her wishes. Large as was the building, she had already visited the greatest part; though, on being told that, with the addition of the kitchen, the six or seven rooms she had now seen surrounded three sides of the court, she could scarcely believe it, or overcome the suspicion of there being many chambers secreted. It was some relief, however, that they were to return to the rooms in common use, by passing through a few of less importance, looking into the court, which, with occasional passages, not wholly unintricate, connected the different sides; and she was further soothed in her progress by being told that she was treading what had once been a cloister, having traces of cells pointed out, and observing several doors that were neither opened nor explained to her — by finding herself successively in a billiard-room, and in the general’s private apartment, without comprehending their connection, or being able to turn aright when she left them; and lastly, by passing through a dark little room, owning Henry’s authority, and strewed with his litter of books, guns, and greatcoats.
他们出发了；他带着一种威严、庄严的步伐，引人注目，但却无法动摇博学的凯瑟琳的疑虑，他带路穿过大厅，穿过公共客厅和一间无用的前厅，走进去。一间无论是大小还是家具都宏伟的房间——真正的客厅，只与重要的人一起使用。它非常高贵——非常宏伟——非常迷人！ ——这就是凯瑟琳要说的一切，因为她那双不加区分的眼睛几乎看不出缎子的颜色；所有细微的赞美，所有有意义的赞美，都是由将军提供的：任何房间的装修的昂贵或优雅对她来说都是无足轻重的。她不喜欢比十五世纪更现代的家具。当将军满足了自己的好奇心，仔细检查了每一件著名的装饰品后，他们走进了图书馆，一间同样宏伟的公寓，陈列着一系列书籍，一个谦虚的人可能会阅读这些书籍。自豪地看着。凯瑟琳比以前更加真诚地聆听、钦佩和好奇——从这个知识宝库中收集了她能找到的一切，翻遍了半个书架的书名，准备继续。但套房公寓并没有如她所愿。尽管这座建筑很大，但她已经参观了最大的部分。然而，当她得知，随着厨房的增加，她现在看到的六七个房间包围了庭院的三边时，她几乎不敢相信，也无法克服对有许多秘密房间的怀疑。 不过，让他们松了口气的是，他们要回到常用的房间，穿过一些不太重要的房间，看看庭院，庭院里偶尔有一些通道，并非完全不复杂，连接着不同的侧面；当她被告知，她正踏在曾经是修道院的地方，有牢房的痕迹指出，并观察到几扇既没有打开也没有向她解释的门时，她在自己的进步中得到了进一步的安慰——发现自己连续在一个台球中——她在房间里，在将军的私人公寓里，不明白它们之间的联系，或者当她离开它们时无法右转；最后，穿过一个黑暗的小房间，里面有亨利的权威，里面散落着他的书、枪和大衣。

From the dining-room, of which, though already seen, and always to be seen at five o’clock, the general could not forgo the pleasure of pacing out the length, for the more certain information of Miss Morland, as to what she neither doubted nor cared for, they proceeded by quick communication to the kitchen — the ancient kitchen of the convent, rich in the massy walls and smoke of former days, and in the stoves and hot closets of the present. The general’s improving hand had not loitered here: every modern invention to facilitate the labour of the cooks had been adopted within this, their spacious theatre; and, when the genius of others had failed, his own had often produced the perfection wanted. His endowments of this spot alone might at any time have placed him high among the benefactors of the convent.
从餐厅，虽然已经看到了，而且总是在五点钟看到，将军不能放弃踱步的乐趣，为了莫兰小姐更确定的信息，关于她在做什么。他们既不怀疑也不关心，快速地前往厨房——修道院的古老厨房，充满了昔日厚重的墙壁和烟雾，以及现在的炉灶和热壁橱。将军的改进之手并没有在这里闲逛：每一项方便厨师劳动的现代发明都在这个宽敞的剧院中得到了采用；当其他人的天才失败时，他自己的天才常常能达到人们所期望的完美。仅凭他在这个位置上的天赋，就可能随时使他在修道院的捐助者中名列前茅。

With the walls of the kitchen ended all the antiquity of the abbey; the fourth side of the quadrangle having, on account of its decaying state, been removed by the general’s father, and the present erected in its place. All that was venerable ceased here. The new building was not only new, but declared itself to be so; intended only for offices, and enclosed behind by stable-yards, no uniformity of architecture had been thought necessary. Catherine could have raved at the hand which had swept away what must have been beyond the value of all the rest, for the purposes of mere domestic economy; and would willingly have been spared the mortification of a walk through scenes so fallen, had the general allowed it; but if he had a vanity, it was in the arrangement of his offices; and as he was convinced that, to a mind like Miss Morland’s, a view of the accommodations and comforts, by which the labours of her inferiors were softened, must always be gratifying, he should make no apology for leading her on. They took a slight survey of all; and Catherine was impressed, beyond her expectation, by their multiplicity and their convenience. The purposes for which a few shapeless pantries and a comfortless scullery were deemed sufficient at Fullerton, were here carried on in appropriate divisions, commodious and roomy. The number of servants continually appearing did not strike her less than the number of their offices. Wherever they went, some pattened girl stopped to curtsy, or some footman in dishabille sneaked off. Yet this was an abbey! How inexpressibly different in these domestic arrangements from such as she had read about — from abbeys and castles, in which, though certainly larger than Northanger, all the dirty work of the house was to be done by two pair of female hands at the utmost. How they could get through it all had often amazed Mrs. Allen; and, when Catherine saw what was necessary here, she began to be amazed herself.
厨房的墙壁结束了修道院所有的古老气息。由于四合院的第四边已经腐烂，将军的父亲将其拆除，并在原处竖立了现在的建筑。一切值得尊敬的事情都在这里停止了。新建筑不仅是新的，而且还宣称自己是新的。只用于办公室，后面有马厩院子，人们认为没有必要采用统一的建筑。凯瑟琳本可以对这只手大发雷霆，因为这只手为了国内经济的目的而扫除了其他所有东西的价值之外的东西。如果将军允许的话，他也愿意免去在如此倒塌的场景中漫步的屈辱。但如果说他有虚荣心的话，那就是他的办公室安排。他确信，对于像莫兰小姐这样的人来说，看到住宿和舒适的环境，从而减轻了她下级的劳动，一定总是令人满意的，所以他不应该为引导她而道歉。他们对所有人进行了一次轻微的调查；出乎凯瑟琳的意料，它们的多样性和便利性给凯瑟琳留下了深刻的印象。在富勒顿，几个不成形的食品储藏室和一个不舒服的餐具室被认为足够了，但在这里却以适当的分区进行，宽敞而宽敞。不断出现的仆人数量并不比他们办公室的数量少让她震惊。无论他们走到哪里，都会有一些穿着紧身衣的女孩停下来行屈膝礼，或者一些穿着不修边幅的男仆偷偷溜走。但这是一座修道院！ 这些家庭安排与她读到的修道院和城堡有多么难以形容的不同，在这些修道院和城堡里，虽然肯定比诺桑觉寺大，但房子里所有肮脏的工作最多都是由两双女性的手来完成。他们如何度过这一切常常让艾伦夫人感到惊讶。当凯瑟琳看到这里有什么必要时，她自己也开始感到惊讶。

They returned to the hall, that the chief staircase might be ascended, and the beauty of its wood, and ornaments of rich carving might be pointed out: having gained the top, they turned in an opposite direction from the gallery in which her room lay, and shortly entered one on the same plan, but superior in length and breadth. She was here shown successively into three large bed-chambers, with their dressing-rooms, most completely and handsomely fitted up; everything that money and taste could do, to give comfort and elegance to apartments, had been bestowed on these; and, being furnished within the last five years, they were perfect in all that would be generally pleasing, and wanting in all that could give pleasure to Catherine. As they were surveying the last, the general, after slightly naming a few of the distinguished characters by whom they had at times been honoured, turned with a smiling countenance to Catherine, and ventured to hope that henceforward some of their earliest tenants might be ‘our friends from Fullerton.’ She felt the unexpected compliment, and deeply regretted the impossibility of thinking well of a man so kindly disposed towards herself, and so full of civility to all her family.
他们回到大厅，以便可以登上主楼梯，欣赏其木质的美丽和丰富的雕刻装饰：到达顶部后，他们转向与她房间所在的画廊相反的方向，并很快进入了一个同样的计划，但在长度和宽度上都更胜一筹。她被依次带进三间大卧室，里面还有更衣室，装修得最完整、最漂亮。金钱和品味所能做的一切，为公寓带来舒适和优雅，都被赋予了这些。而且，由于是在过去五年内布置的，它们在所有令人愉悦的方面都是完美的，并且在所有能够给凯瑟琳带来快乐的方面都缺乏。当他们勘察最后一个时，将军稍微说出了一些有时受到表彰的杰出人物的名字，然后微笑着转向凯瑟琳，并大胆地希望从今往后，他们最早的一些房客可能是“ “我们来自富勒顿的朋友。”她感受到了这出乎意料的恭维，并为自己不可能对一个对自己如此友善、对她的家人如此彬彬有礼的男人产生好感而深感遗憾。

The gallery was terminated by folding doors, which Miss Tilney, advancing, had thrown open, and passed through, and seemed on the point of doing the same by the first door to the left, in another long reach of gallery, when the general, coming forwards, called her hastily, and, as Catherine thought, rather angrily back, demanding whether she were going? — And what was there more to be seen? — Had not Miss Morland already seen all that could be worth her notice? — And did she not suppose her friend might be glad of some refreshment after so much exercise? Miss Tilney drew back directly, and the heavy doors were closed upon the mortified Catherine, who, having seen, in a momentary glance beyond them, a narrower passage, more numerous openings, and symptoms of a winding staircase, believed herself at last within the reach of something worth her notice; and felt, as she unwillingly paced back the gallery, that she would rather be allowed to examine that end of the house than see all the finery of all the rest. The general’s evident desire of preventing such an examination was an additional stimulant. Something was certainly to be concealed; her fancy, though it had trespassed lately once or twice, could not mislead her here; and what that something was, a short sentence of Miss Tilney’s, as they followed the general at some distance downstairs, seemed to point out: ‘I was going to take you into what was my mother’s room — the room in which she died — ‘ were all her words; but few as they were, they conveyed pages of intelligence to Catherine. It was no wonder that the general should shrink from the sight of such objects as that room must contain; a room in all probability never entered by him since the dreadful scene had passed, which released his suffering wife, and left him to the stings of conscience.
画廊的尽头是折叠门，蒂尔尼小姐向前推进，把门推开，穿过去，似乎正要在画廊另一条很长的地方左边的第一扇门做同样的事情，这时将军，走上前来，急忙叫住她，然后，正如凯瑟琳所想，她相当生气地回来，询问她是否要走？ ——还有什么可看的呢？ ——莫兰小姐不是已经看到了所有值得她注意的东西吗？ ——她难道不认为她的朋友在经过这么多运动后可能会很高兴喝点茶吗？蒂尔尼小姐直接退后一步，沉重的大门向凯瑟琳关上了，凯瑟琳感到羞愧，她瞥了一眼门外，看到一条更窄的通道，更多的开口，以及蜿蜒楼梯的迹象，她终于相信自己在里面了。触及值得她注意的事物；当她不情愿地在画廊里踱步时，她觉得自己宁愿被允许检查房子的那一端，也不愿看到其他地方的华丽装饰。将军明显希望阻止这样的检查，这是一种额外的兴奋剂。肯定有什么事情是要隐瞒的。她的幻想虽然最近已经闯入一两次，但不能将她误导到这里。当他们跟随将军下楼时，蒂尔尼小姐说了一句简短的话，那是什么东西，似乎在指出：“我要带你去我母亲的房间——她死的房间——”这都是她的话；尽管数量很少，但他们却向凯瑟琳传达了数页情报。 毫不奇怪，将军会回避看到这个房间里必须包含的这些物品。自从可怕的场景过去之后，他很可能从未进入过这个房间，这让他痛苦的妻子得到了释放，而他却受到了良心的刺痛。

She ventured, when next alone with Eleanor, to express her wish of being permitted to see it, as well as all the rest of that side of the house; and Eleanor promised to attend her there, whenever they should have a convenient hour. Catherine understood her: the general must be watched from home, before that room could be entered. ‘It remains as it was, I suppose?’ said she, in a tone of feeling.
当她下次单独和埃莉诺在一起时，她大胆地表达了她希望被允许参观它以及房子那一侧的所有其他部分的愿望；埃莉诺答应只要他们方便，就会去那里陪她。凯瑟琳明白她的意思：将军必须在家中受到监视，然后才能进入那个房间。 “我想，它还是原来的样子吧？”她语气里充满感情地说。

‘Yes, entirely.’
“是的，完全是。”

‘And how long ago may it be that your mother died?’
“你母亲大概是多久前去世的？”

‘She has been dead these nine years.’ And nine years, Catherine knew, was a trifle of time, compared with what generally elapsed after the death of an injured wife, before her room was put to rights.
“她已经死了九年了。”凯瑟琳知道，与受伤的妻子去世后，到她的房间恢复正常相比，九年只是微不足道的时间。

‘You were with her, I suppose, to the last?’
“我想你一直和她在一起吧？”

‘No,’ said Miss Tilney, sighing; ‘I was unfortunately from home. Her illness was sudden and short; and, before I arrived it was all over.’
“不，”蒂尔尼小姐叹了口气说。 “不幸的是我不在家。她的病来得很突然，时间也很短。而且，在我到达之前，一切都结束了。

Catherine’s blood ran cold with the horrid suggestions which naturally sprang from these words. Could it be possible? Could Henry’s father — ? And yet how many were the examples to justify even the blackest suspicions! And, when she saw him in the evening, while she worked with her friend, slowly pacing the drawing-room for an hour together in silent thoughtfulness, with downcast eyes and contracted brow, she felt secure from all possibility of wronging him. It was the air and attitude of a Montoni! What could more plainly speak the gloomy workings of a mind not wholly dead to every sense of humanity, in its fearful review of past scenes of guilt? Unhappy man! And the anxiousness of her spirits directed her eyes towards his figure so repeatedly, as to catch Miss Tilney’s notice. ‘My father,’ she whispered, ‘often walks about the room in this way; it is nothing unusual.’
这些话自然而然地产生了可怕的暗示，凯瑟琳的血液都变冷了。这可能吗？亨利的父亲会不会——？然而，有多少例子可以证明最黑暗的怀疑是合理的！晚上，当她和朋友一起工作时，双目低垂，眉头皱起，一起在客厅里缓慢地踱步一个小时，沉思默想，当她看到他时，她感到很安全，不会有任何委屈他的可能。这就是蒙托尼人的气质和态度！还有什么能比这更清楚地说明一个人性的阴暗运作方式，它对过去的罪恶场景进行了可怕的回顾？不快乐的人！她精神上的焦虑不断地将目光转向他的身影，以至于引起了蒂尔尼小姐的注意。 “我的父亲，”她低声说道，“经常这样在房间里走来走去；这没什么不寻常的。

‘So much the worse!’ thought Catherine; such ill-timed exercise was of a piece with the strange unseasonableness of his morning walks, and boded nothing good.
“更糟糕的是！”凯瑟琳想。这种不合时宜的锻炼与他早上散步的奇怪的不合时宜的行为是一回事，而且没有什么好兆头。

After an evening, the little variety and seeming length of which made her peculiarly sensible of Henry’s importance among them, she was heartily glad to be dismissed; though it was a look from the general not designed for her observation which sent his daughter to the bell. When the butler would have lit his master’s candle, however, he was forbidden. The latter was not going to retire. ‘I have many pamphlets to finish,’ said he to Catherine, ‘before I can close my eyes, and perhaps may be poring over the affairs of the nation for hours after you are asleep. Can either of us be more meetly employed? My eyes will be blinding for the good of others, and yours preparing by rest for future mischief.’
一个晚上之后，虽然变化不大，但时间似乎很长，使她特别意识到亨利在他们中间的重要性，她很高兴被解雇；尽管将军的眼神并不是为了她的观察而设计的，但还是让他的女儿按了门铃。然而，当管家要点燃主人的蜡烛时，他却被禁止了。后者并不打算退休。 “在我闭上眼睛之前，我还有很多小册子要写完，”他对凯瑟琳说，“也许在你睡着后我会仔细研究国家事务几个小时。”我们能找到更合适的工作吗？我的眼睛会为了他人的利益而失明，而你的眼睛会在休息中为未来的恶作剧做好准备。

But neither the business alleged, nor the magnificent compliment, could win Catherine from thinking that some very different object must occasion so serious a delay of proper repose. To be kept up for hours, after the family were in bed, by stupid pamphlets was not very likely. There must be some deeper cause: something was to be done which could be done only while the household slept; and the probability that Mrs. Tilney yet lived, shut up for causes unknown, and receiving from the pitiless hands of her husband a nightly supply of coarse food, was the conclusion which necessarily followed. Shocking as was the idea, it was at least better than a death unfairly hastened, as, in the natural course of things, she must ere long be released. The suddenness of her reputed illness, the absence of her daughter, and probably of her other children, at the time — all favoured the supposition of her imprisonment. Its origin — jealousy perhaps, or wanton cruelty — was yet to be unravelled.
但无论是所声称的生意，还是盛大的赞美，都无法使凯瑟琳摆脱这样的想法：某些非常不同的物体一定会导致如此严重的休息延迟。当一家人都上床睡觉后，要靠愚蠢的小册子继续熬夜是不太可能的。一定有一些更深层次的原因：要做一些只有在家人睡觉时才能做的事情；蒂尔尼夫人很可能还活着，因不明原因被关起来，并从她丈夫无情的手中接受每晚的粗粮供应，这是必然得出的结论。尽管这个想法令人震惊，但这至少比不公平地加速死亡要好，因为按照事情的自然过程，她很快就会被释放。她所称的疾病突然发作，她的女儿（可能还有她其他孩子）当时不在场——所有这些都支持她被监禁的假设。它的起源——也许是嫉妒，或者是肆意的残忍——尚未解开。

In revolving these matters, while she undressed, it suddenly struck her as not unlikely that she might that morning have passed near the very spot of this unfortunate woman’s confinement — might have been within a few paces of the cell in which she languished out her days; for what part of the abbey could be more fitted for the purpose than that which yet bore the traces of monastic division? In the high-arched passage, paved with stone, which already she had trodden with peculiar awe, she well remembered the doors of which the general had given no account. To what might not those doors lead? In support of the plausibility of this conjecture, it further occurred to her that the forbidden gallery, in which lay the apartments of the unfortunate Mrs. Tilney, must be, as certainly as her memory could guide her, exactly over this suspected range of cells, and the staircase by the side of those apartments of which she had caught a transient glimpse, communicating by some secret means with those cells, might well have favoured the barbarous proceedings of her husband. Down that staircase she had perhaps been conveyed in a state of well-prepared insensibility!
当她脱衣服的时候，她突然想到，那天早上她可能就在这个不幸的女人被监禁的地方附近——可能就在距离她度过余生的牢房几步之遥的地方。 ;修道院的哪一部分比那些还带有修道院分裂痕迹的部分更适合这个目的呢？在那条用石头铺成的高拱形通道里，她已经怀着一种特殊的敬畏之情踏过这条通道，她清楚地记得将军没有注意到的那些门。这些门不会通向什么？为了支持这一猜想的合理性，她进一步想到，不幸的蒂尔尼夫人的公寓所在的禁止画廊，正如她的记忆所引导的那样，一定恰好位于这个可疑的细胞范围之上。以及她曾短暂瞥见的那些公寓旁边的楼梯，通过某种秘密手段与这些牢房进行交流，很可能有利于她丈夫的野蛮行径。她也许是在一种做好充分准备的麻木不仁的状态下被带下楼梯的！

Catherine sometimes started at the boldness of her own surmises, and sometimes hoped or feared that she had gone too far; but they were supported by such appearances as made their dismissal impossible.
凯瑟琳有时会因自己的大胆猜测而感到惊讶，有时又希望或担心自己太过分了。但他们得到了这样的支持，这使得他们不可能被解雇。

The side of the quadrangle, in which she supposed the guilty scene to be acting, being, according to her belief, just opposite her own, it struck her that, if judiciously watched, some rays of light from the general’s lamp might glimmer through the lower windows, as he passed to the prison of his wife; and, twice before she stepped into bed, she stole gently from her room to the corresponding window in the gallery, to see if it appeared; but all abroad was dark, and it must yet be too early. The various ascending noises convinced her that the servants must still be up. Till midnight, she supposed it would be in vain to watch; but then, when the clock had struck twelve, and all was quiet, she would, if not quite appalled by darkness, steal out and look once more. The clock struck twelve — and Catherine had been half an hour asleep.
四合院的一侧，她认为有罪的场景正在其中表演，根据她的信念，就在她自己的对面，她突然意识到，如果仔细观察，将军灯上的一些光线可能会透过四合院闪烁。当他经过妻子的监狱时，降下窗户；在上床睡觉前，她有两次轻轻地从自己的房间偷偷走到画廊相应的窗户前，看看它是否出现。但国外一片漆黑，而且还为时过早。各种上升的声音让她确信仆人们一定还没有起床。直到半夜，她以为再看下去也是徒劳的。但是，当时钟敲响十二点，一切都安静下来时，即使不是被黑暗吓坏了，她也会偷偷溜出去再看一次。时钟敲响了十二点——凯瑟琳已经睡了半个小时了。

Chapter 24
第24章

The next day afforded no opportunity for the proposed examination of the mysterious apartments. It was Sunday, and the whole time between morning and afternoon service was required by the general in exercise abroad or eating cold meat at home; and great as was Catherine’s curiosity, her courage was not equal to a wish of exploring them after dinner, either by the fading light of the sky between six and seven o’clock, or by the yet more partial though stronger illumination of a treacherous lamp. The day was unmarked therefore by anything to interest her imagination beyond the sight of a very elegant monument to the memory of Mrs. Tilney, which immediately fronted the family pew. By that her eye was instantly caught and long retained; and the perusal of the highly strained epitaph, in which every virtue was ascribed to her by the inconsolable husband, who must have been in some way or other her destroyer, affected her even to tears.
第二天没有机会对神秘的公寓进行拟议的检查。那天是星期天，从早上到下午的整个时间，将军都需要在国外锻炼或在家吃冷肉；尽管凯瑟琳的好奇心很大，但她的勇气并不等于晚饭后探索它们的愿望，无论是在六点到七点之间天空逐渐暗淡的光线下，还是在危险的灯的更局部但更强的照明下。因此，除了家族长椅前面一座非常优雅的纪念蒂尔尼夫人的纪念碑之外，这一天没有任何引起她想象力的事情。她的目光立刻就被吸引住了，并且停留了很长时间。仔细阅读那篇高度紧张的墓志铭，其中所有的美德都被伤心欲绝的丈夫归咎于她，他一定在某种程度上是她的毁灭者，她甚至感动得流下了眼泪。

That the general, having erected such a monument, should be able to face it, was not perhaps very strange, and yet that he could sit so boldly collected within its view, maintain so elevated an air, look so fearlessly around, nay, that he should even enter the church, seemed wonderful to Catherine. Not, however, that many instances of beings equally hardened in guilt might not be produced. She could remember dozens who had persevered in every possible vice, going on from crime to crime, murdering whomsoever they chose, without any feeling of humanity or remorse; till a violent death or a religious retirement closed their black career. The erection of the monument itself could not in the smallest degree affect her doubts of Mrs. Tilney’s actual decease. Were she even to descend into the family vault where her ashes were supposed to slumber, were she to behold the coffin in which they were said to be enclosed — what could it avail in such a case? Catherine had read too much not to be perfectly aware of the ease with which a waxen figure might be introduced, and a supposititious funeral carried on.
将军竖立了这样一座纪念碑，能够面对它，也许并不奇怪，但他能如此大胆地坐在它的视野中，保持如此高的神态，如此无所畏惧地环顾四周，不，他甚至应该进入教堂，这对凯瑟琳来说似乎很棒。然而，许多同样因内疚而变得冷酷无情的事例也并非不会发生。她记得有几十个人曾犯过各种恶习，不断犯罪，谋杀他们选择的任何人，没有任何人性或悔恨的感觉；直到暴力死亡或宗教退休结束了他们的黑人职业生涯。纪念碑的竖立本身丝毫不能影响她对蒂尔尼夫人实际死亡的怀疑。如果她真的走进了她的骨灰应该安放的家庭墓穴，如果她看到了据说装着骨灰的棺材——在这种情况下，这有什么用呢？凯瑟琳读了太多的书，不可能不完全意识到引入蜡像和举行虚拟葬礼是多么容易。

The succeeding morning promised something better. The general’s early walk, ill-timed as it was in every other view, was favourable here; and when she knew him to be out of the house, she directly proposed to Miss Tilney the accomplishment of her promise. Eleanor was ready to oblige her; and Catherine reminding her as they went of another promise, their first visit in consequence was to the portrait in her bed-chamber. It represented a very lovely woman, with a mild and pensive countenance, justifying, so far, the expectations of its new observer; but they were not in every respect answered, for Catherine had depended upon meeting with features, hair, complexion, that should be the very counterpart, the very image, if not of Henry’s, of Eleanor’s — the only portraits of which she had been in the habit of thinking, bearing always an equal resemblance of mother and child. A face once taken was taken for generations. But here she was obliged to look and consider and study for a likeness. She contemplated it, however, in spite of this drawback, with much emotion, and, but for a yet stronger interest, would have left it unwillingly.
接下来的早晨预示着会有更好的事情发生。将军的早起行动虽然在其他方面都显得不合时宜，但在这里却是有利的。当她知道他不在家时，她直接向蒂尔尼小姐提出履行诺言。埃莉诺已经准备好满足她的要求了。凯瑟琳提醒她，当他们履行另一个承诺时，他们的第一次访问就是她卧室里的肖像。它代表了一位非常可爱的女人，面容温和而沉思，到目前为止，它的新观察者的期望是合理的。但他们并没有在所有方面都得到答复，因为凯瑟琳依赖于与特征、头发、肤色的会面，这些应该是非常相似的，即使不是亨利的形象，也是埃莉诺的形象——这是她在其中出现的唯一肖像。思维习惯，总是像母亲和孩子一样相似。一张脸一旦被占据，就会被世代相传。但在这里，她不得不寻找、考虑和研究相似之处。然而，尽管有这个缺点，她还是怀着很大的感情思考着它，而且，如果没有更强烈的兴趣，她会不情愿地离开它。

Her agitation as they entered the great gallery was too much for any endeavour at discourse; she could only look at her companion. Eleanor’s countenance was dejected, yet sedate; and its composure spoke her inured to all the gloomy objects to which they were advancing. Again she passed through the folding doors, again her hand was upon the important lock, and Catherine, hardly able to breathe, was turning to close the former with fearful caution, when the figure, the dreaded figure of the general himself at the further end of the gallery, stood before her! The name of ‘Eleanor’ at the same moment, in his loudest tone, resounded through the building, giving to his daughter the first intimation of his presence, and to Catherine terror upon terror. An attempt at concealment had been her first instinctive movement on perceiving him, yet she could scarcely hope to have escaped his eye; and when her friend, who with an apologizing look darted hastily by her, had joined and disappeared with him, she ran for safety to her own room, and, locking herself in, believed that she should never have courage to go down again. She remained there at least an hour, in the greatest agitation, deeply commiserating the state of her poor friend, and expecting a summons herself from the angry general to attend him in his own apartment. No summons, however, arrived; and at last, on seeing a carriage drive up to the abbey, she was emboldened to descend and meet him under the protection of visitors. The breakfast-room was gay with company; and she was named to them by the general as the friend of his daughter, in a complimentary style, which so well concealed his resentful ire, as to make her feel secure at least of life for the present. And Eleanor, with a command of countenance which did honour to her concern for his character, taking an early occasion of saying to her, ‘My father only wanted me to answer a note,’ she began to hope that she had either been unseen by the general, or that from some consideration of policy she should be allowed to suppose herself so. Upon this trust she dared still to remain in his presence, after the company left them, and nothing occurred to disturb it.
当他们进入大画廊时，她的激动使任何谈话的努力都难以承受。她只能看着她的同伴。埃莉诺的脸色沮丧，但又很平静。它的镇静表明她已经习惯了他们正在前进的所有阴暗的目标。她再次穿过折叠门，她的手再次放在重要的锁上，凯瑟琳几乎无法呼吸，正要小心翼翼地关上折叠门，这时那个身影，将军本人的可怕身影出现在另一端。画廊的人就站在她面前！与此同时，“埃莉诺”的名字以他最大的声调响彻整栋大楼，让他的女儿第一次感觉到他的存在，也让凯瑟琳感到恐惧。试图隐藏是她察觉到他的第一个本能动作，但她几乎不可能逃过他的眼睛；当她的朋友带着歉意的神色匆匆从她身边冲过时，也跟着他一起消失了，她为了安全跑回自己的房间，把自己锁在里面，相信自己再也没有勇气下去了。她在那儿呆了至少一个小时，心情极其激动，对她可怜的朋友的处境深表同情，并期待这位愤怒的将军亲自传唤她到他自己的公寓里去见他。然而，传票却没有到达。最后，当她看到一辆马车驶向修道院时，她鼓起勇气在游客的保护下下来迎接他。早餐室里挤满了人。将军以一种恭维的语气向他们称她为他女儿的朋友，这很好地掩盖了他的怨恨，使她至少感到目前的生活是安全的。 埃莉诺的表情很尊重她对他性格的关心，她很早就对她说：“我父亲只是想让我回复一张纸条。”她开始希望她要么没有被将军，或者从某种政策考虑，她应该被允许这样认为。出于这种信任，在公司离开后，她仍然敢留在他面前，没有发生任何扰乱他们的事情。

In the course of this morning’s reflections, she came to a resolution of making her next attempt on the forbidden door alone. It would be much better in every respect that Eleanor should know nothing of the matter. To involve her in the danger of a second detection, to court her into an apartment which must wring her heart, could not be the office of a friend. The general’s utmost anger could not be to herself what it might be to a daughter; and, besides, she thought the examination itself would be more satisfactory if made without any companion. It would be impossible to explain to Eleanor the suspicions, from which the other had, in all likelihood, been hitherto happily exempt; nor could she therefore, in her presence, search for those proofs of the general’s cruelty, which however they might yet have escaped discovery, she felt confident of somewhere drawing forth, in the shape of some fragmented journal, continued to the last gasp. Of the way to the apartment she was now perfectly mistress; and as she wished to get it over before Henry’s return, who was expected on the morrow, there was no time to be lost. The day was bright, her courage high; at four o’clock, the sun was now two hours above the horizon, and it would be only her retiring to dress half an hour earlier than usual.
在今天早上的思考过程中，她决定独自尝试下一次禁门。从各方面来看，埃莉诺最好对此事一无所知。让她陷入第二次被发现的危险，把她引诱到一套让她心碎的公寓里，这不可能是朋友的办公室。将军的最大愤怒不可能是对她自己的愤怒，而是对女儿的愤怒。此外，她认为如果没有任何同伴，检查本身会更令人满意。向埃莉诺解释这些怀疑是不可能的，到目前为止，对方很可能很幸运地没有受到这种怀疑。因此，当她在场时，她也无法寻找将军残暴的证据，尽管这些证据可能仍然无法被发现，但她有信心以某种零散的日记的形式将其记录下来，直到最后一口气。在去公寓的路上，她现在已经是完美的女主人了。由于她希望在亨利明天回来之前把这件事解决掉，所以不能浪费时间。天很亮，她的勇气很高；四点钟，太阳已经升到地平线上方两个小时了，她只是比平时早半小时下床穿衣服而已。

It was done; and Catherine found herself alone in the gallery before the clocks had ceased to strike. It was no time for thought; she hurried on, slipped with the least possible noise through the folding doors, and without stopping to look or breathe, rushed forward to the one in question. The lock yielded to her hand, and, luckily, with no sullen sound that could alarm a human being. On tiptoe she entered; the room was before her; but it was some minutes before she could advance another step. She beheld what fixed her to the spot and agitated every feature. She saw a large, well-proportioned apartment, an handsome dimity bed, arranged as unoccupied with an housemaid’s care, a bright Bath stove, mahogany wardrobes, and neatly painted chairs, on which the warm beams of a western sun gaily poured through two sash windows! Catherine had expected to have her feelings worked, and worked they were. Astonishment and doubt first seized them; and a shortly succeeding ray of common sense added some bitter emotions of shame. She could not be mistaken as to the room; but how grossly mistaken in everything else! — in Miss Tilney’s meaning, in her own calculation! This apartment, to which she had given a date so ancient, a position so awful, proved to be one end of what the general’s father had built. There were two other doors in the chamber, leading probably into dressing-closets; but she had no inclination to open either. Would the veil in which Mrs. Tilney had last walked, or the volume in which she had last read, remain to tell what nothing else was allowed to whisper? No: whatever might have been the general’s crimes, he had certainly too much wit to let them sue for detection. She was sick of exploring, and desired but to be safe in her own room, with her own heart only privy to its folly; and she was on the point of retreating as softly as she had entered, when the sound of footsteps, she could hardly tell where, made her pause and tremble. To be found there, even by a servant, would be unpleasant; but by the general (and he seemed always at hand when least wanted), much worse! She listened — the sound had ceased; and resolving not to lose a moment, she passed through and closed the door. At that instant a door underneath was hastily opened; someone seemed with swift steps to ascend the stairs, by the head of which she had yet to pass before she could gain the gallery. She had no power to move. With a feeling of terror not very definable, she fixed her eyes on the staircase, and in a few moments it gave Henry to her view. ‘Mr. Tilney!’ she exclaimed in a voice of more than common astonishment. He looked astonished too. ‘Good God!’ she continued, not attending to his address. ‘How came you here? How came you up that staircase?’
事情已经完成了；时钟停止敲响之前，凯瑟琳发现自己独自一人在画廊里。现在没有时间思考。她快步前行，尽可能不发出任何噪音地溜进折叠门，没有停下来看看或呼吸，就冲到了那个人面前。锁被她的手打开了，幸运的是，没有发出任何令人惊慌的阴沉声音。她踮起脚尖走了进去。房间就在她面前；但又过了几分钟，她才能再迈出一步。她看到是什么让她呆在原地，并激怒了她的每一个特征。她看到一间宽敞、匀称的公寓，一张英俊昏暗的床，无人居住，由女仆照看，明亮的浴炉，红木衣柜，漆得整整齐齐的椅子，西边温暖的阳光透过两扇窗扇欢快地洒在椅子上。视窗！凯瑟琳原本希望她的感情能够发挥作用，而事实也确实如此。他们首先感到惊讶和怀疑。不久之后的一缕常识又增添了一些痛苦的羞耻情绪。她不会弄错房间的。但在其他方面却犯了多么严重的错误！ ——按照蒂尔尼小姐的意思，按照她自己的计算！这座公寓，她赋予的日期如此古老，位置如此糟糕，事实证明是将军的父亲建造的建筑的终点。房间里还有另外两扇门，可能通向更衣室。但她也没有兴趣打开。蒂尔尼夫人最后走过的面纱，或者她最后读过的书，是否会留下来讲述其他任何人都不允许窃窃私语的事情？不：无论将军犯下什么罪行，他肯定有足够的智慧，不会让他们起诉以求侦查。 她厌倦了探索，只想安全地呆在自己的房间里，而她自己的心只知道这有多愚蠢；她正要像进来时一样轻轻地退出，这时，不知从哪里传来的脚步声让她停了下来，浑身发抖。被发现在那里，即使是被仆人，也会感到不愉快。但对于将军来说（他似乎总是在最不需要的时候就在身边），更糟糕！她侧耳倾听——声音停止了；她决定一刻也不耽误，走进去并关上了门。就在这时，下面的一扇门被匆忙打开了。似乎有人迈着快步走上楼梯，她还没经过楼梯口，就到达了走廊。她没有力气动弹。怀着一种难以形容的恐惧感，她把眼睛盯着楼梯，不一会儿，亨利就看到了她的视线。 '先生。蒂尔尼！”她用一种超乎寻常的惊讶声音喊道。他看上去也很惊讶。 “天哪！”她继续说道，没有注意他的讲话。 ‘你怎么到这里来了？你怎么爬上那个楼梯的？’

‘How came I up that staircase!’ he replied, greatly surprised. ‘Because it is my nearest way from the stable-yard to my own chamber; and why should I not come up it?’
“我是怎么爬上那个楼梯的！”他非常惊讶地回答道。 “因为这是我从马厩院子到我自己的房间最近的路；为什么我不应该提出来呢？

Catherine recollected herself, blushed deeply, and could say no more. He seemed to be looking in her countenance for that explanation which her lips did not afford. She moved on towards the gallery. ‘And may I not, in my turn,’ said he, as he pushed back the folding doors, ‘ask how you came here? This passage is at least as extraordinary a road from the breakfast-parlour to your apartment, as that staircase can be from the stables to mine.’
凯瑟琳回过神来，脸涨得通红，再也说不出话来。他似乎在从她的脸上寻找她的嘴唇无法给出的解释。她继续朝画廊走去。 “轮到我了，”他推开折叠门时说道，“请问你是怎么来到这里的？”这条通道至少是一条从早餐室到你的公寓的非凡道路，就像从马厩到我的楼梯一样。

‘I have been,’ said Catherine, looking down, ‘to see your mother’s room.’
“我去过，”凯瑟琳低着头说道，“去看看你母亲的房间。”

‘My mother’s room! Is there anything extraordinary to be seen there?’
‘我妈妈的房间！那里有什么不寻常的东西吗？

‘No, nothing at all. I thought you did not mean to come back till tomorrow.’
‘不，什么也没有。我以为你不打算明天才回来。

‘I did not expect to be able to return sooner, when I went away; but three hours ago I had the pleasure of finding nothing to detain me. You look pale. I am afraid I alarmed you by running so fast up those stairs. Perhaps you did not know — you were not aware of their leading from the offices in common use?’
‘没想到我走后能早点回来；但三个小时前，我很高兴没有发现任何事情可以耽搁我。你脸色苍白。恐怕我跑那么快爬楼梯吓到你了。也许你不知道——你不知道他们在常用办公室里的领导？

‘No, I was not. You have had a very fine day for your ride.’
“不，我不是。”您的骑行度过了美好的一天。

‘Very; and does Eleanor leave you to find your way into all the rooms in the house by yourself?’
'非常;埃莉诺会让你独自一人进入房子里的所有房间吗？

‘Oh! No; she showed me over the greatest part on Saturday — and we were coming here to these rooms — but only’ — dropping her voice — ‘your father was with us.’
'哦！不;周六她向我展示了最精彩的部分——我们正来到这些房间——但只是”——压低了声音——“你父亲和我们在一起。”

‘And that prevented you,’ said Henry, earnestly regarding her. ‘Have you looked into all the rooms in that passage?’
“这阻止了你，”亨利认真地看着她说道。 “你检查过那条通道里的所有房间了吗？”

‘No, I only wanted to see — Is not it very late? I must go and dress.’
‘不，我只是想看看——是不是很晚了？我得去穿衣服了。

‘It is only a quarter past four’ showing his watch — ‘and you are not now in Bath. No theatre, no rooms to prepare for. Half an hour at Northanger must be enough.’
“现在才四点十五分，”他拿出手表——“你现在不在巴斯。”没有剧院，没有房间可以准备。在诺桑觉寺呆半个小时就够了。

She could not contradict it, and therefore suffered herself to be detained, though her dread of further questions made her, for the first time in their acquaintance, wish to leave him. They walked slowly up the gallery. ‘Have you had any letter from Bath since I saw you?’
她无法反驳，因此只好被拘留，尽管她害怕进一步的问题，这使她在他们相识以来第一次想要离开他。他们慢慢地走上画廊。 “自从我见到你以来，你有收到巴斯寄来的信吗？”

‘No, and I am very much surprised. Isabella promised so faithfully to write directly.’
“不，我感到非常惊讶。伊莎贝拉如此忠实地承诺直接写信。

‘Promised so faithfully! A faithful promise! That puzzles me. I have heard of a faithful performance. But a faithful promise — the fidelity of promising! It is a power little worth knowing, however, since it can deceive and pain you. My mother’s room is very commodious, is it not? Large and cheerful-looking, and the dressing-closets so well disposed! It always strikes me as the most comfortable apartment in the house, and I rather wonder that Eleanor should not take it for her own. She sent you to look at it, I suppose?’
‘答应得这么认真！忠实的承诺！这让我很困惑。我听说过一场忠实的表演。而是一个忠实的承诺——承诺的忠诚！然而，这是一种不值得了解的力量，因为它会欺骗你并使你痛苦。我妈妈的房间很宽敞，不是吗？又大又漂亮，更衣室布置得很好！我总是觉得它是家里最舒适的公寓，我很想知道埃莉诺不应该把它据为己有。我猜是她派你去看的吧？

‘No.’
'不。'

‘It has been your own doing entirely?’ Catherine said nothing. After a short silence, during which he had closely observed her, he added, ‘As there is nothing in the room in itself to raise curiosity, this must have proceeded from a sentiment of respect for my mother’s character, as described by Eleanor, which does honour to her memory. The world, I believe, never saw a better woman. But it is not often that virtue can boast an interest such as this. The domestic, unpretending merits of a person never known do not often create that kind of fervent, venerating tenderness which would prompt a visit like yours. Eleanor, I suppose, has talked of her a great deal?’
“这完全是你自己造成的吗？”凯瑟琳什么也没说。在短暂的沉默之后，他仔细观察了她，然后补充道，“由于房间本身没有任何东西可以引起好奇，这一定是出于对我母亲性格的尊重，正如埃莉诺所描述的那样，尊重她的记忆。我相信，这个世界从未见过更好的女人。但美德能够拥有这样的兴趣并不常见。一个素不相识的人的家庭生活、朴实无华的优点，通常不会产生那种热烈、崇敬的温柔，而这种温柔会促使你来访。我想埃莉诺经常谈论她？

‘Yes, a great deal. That is — no, not much, but what she did say was very interesting. Her dying so suddenly’ (slowly, and with hesitation it was spoken), ‘and you — none of you being at home — and your father, I thought — perhaps had not been very fond of her.’
‘是的，很多。那就是——不，不多，但她说的话非常有趣。她死得那么突然”（缓慢地，带着犹豫地说），“而你——你们都不在家——还有你的父亲，我想——也许不太喜欢她。”

‘And from these circumstances,’ he replied (his quick eye fixed on hers), ‘you infer perhaps the probability of some negligence — some’ — (involuntarily she shook her head) — ‘or it may be — of something still less pardonable.’ She raised her eyes towards him more fully than she had ever done before. ‘My mother’s illness,’ he continued, ‘the seizure which ended in her death, was sudden. The malady itself, one from which she had often suffered, a bilious fever — its cause therefore constitutional. On the third day, in short, as soon as she could be prevailed on, a physician attended her, a very respectable man, and one in whom she had always placed great confidence. Upon his opinion of her danger, two others were called in the next day, and remained in almost constant attendance for four and twenty hours. On the fifth day she died. During the progress of her disorder, Frederick and I (we were both at home) saw her repeatedly; and from our own observation can bear witness to her having received every possible attention which could spring from the affection of those about her, or which her situation in life could command. Poor Eleanor was absent, and at such a distance as to return only to see her mother in her coffin.’
“从这些情况来看，”他回答道（他敏锐的目光盯着她的眼睛），“你推断出可能存在某种疏忽——某种疏忽”——（她不由自主地摇摇头）——“或者可能是——一些更不可原谅的事情。” “……”她比以前更加认真地抬起眼睛看着他。 “我母亲的病，”他继续说道，“癫痫发作很突然，最后导致了她的死亡。她经常患的疾病是胆汁热，因此其病因是体质性的。简而言之，第三天，她一被说服，一位医生就给她看病，一位非常受人尊敬的人，也是她一直非常信任的人。根据他对她的危险的看法，第二天又叫来了另外两个人，并且在四到二十个小时内几乎一直在场。第五天，她死了。在她病情恶化的过程中，弗雷德里克和我（我们都在家）多次见到她。从我们自己的观察可以证明，她受到了一切可能的关注，这些关注可能源于她周围的人的感情，或者她的生活状况可能要求的。可怜的埃莉诺不在，而且距离很远，回来时只能看到她躺在棺材里的母亲。

‘But your father,’ said Catherine, ‘was he afflicted?’
“但是你的父亲，”凯瑟琳说，“他有病吗？”

‘For a time, greatly so. You have erred in supposing him not attached to her. He loved her, I am persuaded, as well as it was possible for him to — we have not all, you know, the same tenderness of disposition — and I will not pretend to say that while she lived, she might not often have had much to bear, but though his temper injured her, his judgment never did. His value of her was sincere; and, if not permanently, he was truly afflicted by her death.’
” “有一段时间，非常如此。你认为他不依恋她就错了。我相信他爱她，而且他也有可能这样做——你知道，我们并不是所有人都拥有同样温柔的性情——我不会假装说，在她活着的时候，她可能不会经常拥有虽然他的脾气伤害了她，但他的判断却从未伤害过她。他对她的重视是真诚的；而且，即使不是永久的，他也确实因她的死而受到痛苦。

‘I am very glad of it,’ said Catherine; ‘it would have been very shocking!’
“我对此感到非常高兴，”凯瑟琳说。 “这会非常令人震惊！”

‘If I understand you rightly, you had formed a surmise of such horror as I have hardly words to — Dear Miss Morland, consider the dreadful nature of the suspicions you have entertained. What have you been judging from? Remember the country and the age in which we live. Remember that we are English, that we are Christians. Consult your own understanding, your own sense of the probable, your own observation of what is passing around you. Does our education prepare us for such atrocities? Do our laws connive at them? Could they be perpetrated without being known, in a country like this, where social and literary intercourse is on such a footing, where every man is surrounded by a neighbourhood of voluntary spies, and where roads and newspapers lay everything open? Dearest Miss Morland, what ideas have you been admitting?’
“如果我没理解错的话，你已经做出了如此恐怖的猜测，我几乎无法用语言来表达——亲爱的莫兰小姐，想想你所抱有的怀疑的可怕本质。你是根据什么来判断的？记住我们生活的国家和时代。请记住，我们是英国人，我们是基督徒。咨询你自己的理解，你自己对可能发生的事情的感觉，你自己对周围发生的事情的观察。我们的教育是否让我们为此类暴行做好准备？我们的法律纵容他们吗？在这样一个社会和文学交往如此基础、每个人都被一群自愿的间谍包围、道路和报纸都敞开的国家里，这些事会在不为人所知的情况下实施吗？最亲爱的莫兰小姐，你承认了什么想法？

They had reached the end of the gallery, and with tears of shame she ran off to her own room.
他们已经走到了走廊的尽头，她带着羞愧的泪水跑回了自己的房间。

Chapter 25
第25章

The visions of romance were over. Catherine was completely awakened. Henry’s address, short as it had been, had more thoroughly opened her eyes to the extravagance of her late fancies than all their several disappointments had done. Most grievously was she humbled. Most bitterly did she cry. It was not only with herself that she was sunk — but with Henry. Her folly, which now seemed even criminal, was all exposed to him, and he must despise her forever. The liberty which her imagination had dared to take with the character of his father — could he ever forgive it? The absurdity of her curiosity and her fears — could they ever be forgotten? She hated herself more than she could express. He had — she thought he had, once or twice before this fatal morning, shown something like affection for her. But now — in short, she made herself as miserable as possible for about half an hour, went down when the clock struck five, with a broken heart, and could scarcely give an intelligible answer to Eleanor’s inquiry if she was well. The formidable Henry soon followed her into the room, and the only difference in his behaviour to her was that he paid her rather more attention than usual. Catherine had never wanted comfort more, and he looked as if he was aware of it.
浪漫的幻想结束了。凯瑟琳彻底清醒了。亨利的讲话虽然简短，但比他们几次的失望更彻底地让她看到了她晚期的幻想的奢侈。最可悲的是她感到谦卑。她哭得最伤心。沉没的不仅是她自己，还有亨利。她的愚蠢行为，现在看来甚至是犯罪行为，都暴露在他面前，他必须永远鄙视她。她的想象力敢于对他父亲的性格进行自由发挥——他能原谅吗？她的好奇心和恐惧是荒谬的——它们能被忘记吗？她对自己的恨意已经无法表达。在这个致命的早晨之前，他——她认为他曾有一两次对她表现出类似的感情。但现在——简而言之，她让自己尽可能地痛苦了大约半个小时，当时钟敲响五点时，她伤心地倒下了，对于埃莉诺的询问她是否还好，几乎无法给出一个可理解的答案。令人敬畏的亨利很快就跟着她走进了房间，他对她的行为唯一不同的是，他比平时更加​​关注她。凯瑟琳从来没有像现在这样需要安慰，而他看上去似乎也意识到了这一点。

The evening wore away with no abatement of this soothing politeness; and her spirits were gradually raised to a modest tranquillity. She did not learn either to forget or defend the past; but she learned to hope that it would never transpire farther, and that it might not cost her Henry’s entire regard. Her thoughts being still chiefly fixed on what she had with such causeless terror felt and done, nothing could shortly be clearer than that it had been all a voluntary, self-created delusion, each trifling circumstance receiving importance from an imagination resolved on alarm, and everything forced to bend to one purpose by a mind which, before she entered the abbey, had been craving to be frightened. She remembered with what feelings she had prepared for a knowledge of Northanger. She saw that the infatuation had been created, the mischief settled, long before her quitting Bath, and it seemed as if the whole might be traced to the influence of that sort of reading which she had there indulged.
夜晚过去了，这种令人安慰的礼貌却没有减弱。她的精神也逐渐恢复到了平静的状态。她没有学会忘记或捍卫过去；她没有学会忘记过去。但她学会了希望这件事永远不会发生得更远，并且这可能不会失去亨利的全部尊重。她的思想仍然主要集中在她所经历的无缘无故的恐惧感和所做的事情上，没有什么比这更清楚的是，这一切都是自愿的，自我创造的错觉，每一个微不足道的情况都因在惊慌中决心的想象而变得重要，并且在她进入修道院之前，她一直渴望受到惊吓，一切都被迫屈服于一个目的。她记得自己是怀着怎样的心情准备了解诺桑觉的。她发现，早在她离开巴斯之前，迷恋就已经产生了，恶作剧也已经解决了，似乎这一切都可以追溯到她在那里沉迷的那种阅读的影响。

Charming as were all Mrs. Radcliffe’s works, and charming even as were the works of all her imitators, it was not in them perhaps that human nature, at least in the Midland counties of England, was to be looked for. Of the Alps and Pyrenees, with their pine forests and their vices, they might give a faithful delineation; and Italy, Switzerland, and the south of France might be as fruitful in horrors as they were there represented. Catherine dared not doubt beyond her own country, and even of that, if hard pressed, would have yielded the northern and western extremities. But in the central part of England there was surely some security for the existence even of a wife not beloved, in the laws of the land, and the manners of the age. Murder was not tolerated, servants were not slaves, and neither poison nor sleeping potions to be procured, like rhubarb, from every druggist. Among the Alps and Pyrenees, perhaps, there were no mixed characters. There, such as were not as spotless as an angel might have the dispositions of a fiend. But in England it was not so; among the English, she believed, in their hearts and habits, there was a general though unequal mixture of good and bad. Upon this conviction, she would not be surprised if even in Henry and Eleanor Tilney, some slight imperfection might hereafter appear; and upon this conviction she need not fear to acknowledge some actual specks in the character of their father, who, though cleared from the grossly injurious suspicions which she must ever blush to have entertained, she did believe, upon serious consideration, to be not perfectly amiable.
拉德克利夫夫人的所有作品都很迷人，即使她所有模仿者的作品也很迷人，但至少在英格兰米德兰各县，也许这些作品中并没有体现人性。对于阿尔卑斯山和比利牛斯山及其松树林和恶习，它们可以给出忠实的描述；意大利、瑞士和法国南部也可能像它们所代表的那样充满恐怖。叶卡捷琳娜不敢怀疑自己的国家以外的地方，即使是这样，如果压力很大，也会屈服于北端和西端。但在英格兰中部地区，根据当地的法律和时代的风俗，即使是一个不被爱的妻子，其生存也确实有一定的保障。谋杀是不被容忍的，仆人不是奴隶，毒药和安眠药都不能像大黄一样从每个药剂师那里买到。在阿尔卑斯山和比利牛斯山中，也许没有混合的特征。那里的人不像天使那样一尘不染，却有着恶魔的性情。但在英国却并非如此。她相信，在英国人的内心和习惯中，虽然不平等，但普遍存在着好与坏的混合体。基于这一信念，即使亨利和埃莉诺·蒂尔尼今后可能会出现一些轻微的缺陷，她也不会感到惊讶。有了这种信念，她就不必害怕承认他们父亲性格中的一些真实的斑点，虽然她已经摆脱了严重伤害性的怀疑，而她一定会因为自己曾经抱有这种怀疑而感到脸红，但经过认真考虑，她确实相信，父亲并不完全是一个完美的人。可亲。

Her mind made up on these several points, and her resolution formed, of always judging and acting in future with the greatest good sense, she had nothing to do but to forgive herself and be happier than ever; and the lenient hand of time did much for her by insensible gradations in the course of another day. Henry’s astonishing generosity and nobleness of conduct, in never alluding in the slightest way to what had passed, was of the greatest assistance to her; and sooner than she could have supposed it possible in the beginning of her distress, her spirits became absolutely comfortable, and capable, as heretofore, of continual improvement by anything he said. There were still some subjects, indeed, under which she believed they must always tremble — the mention of a chest or a cabinet, for instance — and she did not love the sight of japan in any shape: but even she could allow that an occasional memento of past folly, however painful, might not be without use.
她在这几点上下定了决心，她的决心已经形成，永远以最明智的判断力来判断和行动未来，她别无选择，只能原谅自己，比以前更快乐；时间的仁慈之手为她做了很多事情，在另一天的过程中不知不觉地逐渐变化。亨利惊人的慷慨和高尚的行为，从不以任何方式提及已经发生的事情，这对她来说是最大的帮助。在她刚开始陷入困境时，她还没来得及想象，她的精神就变得绝对舒适，并且能够像以前一样，通过他所说的任何话而不断改善。事实上，还有一些话题，她相信他们一定会一直颤抖——例如，提到箱子或柜子——而且她不喜欢看到日本的任何形状：但即使是她也可以允许偶尔出现这样的情况。过去的愚蠢行为的纪念品，无论多么痛苦，可能并非毫无用处。

The anxieties of common life began soon to succeed to the alarms of romance. Her desire of hearing from Isabella grew every day greater. She was quite impatient to know how the Bath world went on, and how the rooms were attended; and especially was she anxious to be assured of Isabella’s having matched some fine netting-cotton, on which she had left her intent; and of her continuing on the best terms with James. Her only dependence for information of any kind was on Isabella. James had protested against writing to her till his return to Oxford; and Mrs. Allen had given her no hopes of a letter till she had got back to Fullerton. But Isabella had promised and promised again; and when she promised a thing, she was so scrupulous in performing it! This made it so particularly strange!
日常生活中的焦虑很快就取代了浪漫的警报。她想听到伊莎贝拉消息的愿望与日俱增。她非常迫不及待地想知道巴斯世界的情况如何，房间的情况如何。她尤其急切地想知道伊莎贝拉已经配上了一些精美的网棉，她已经把自己的意图留在了上面。以及她继续与詹姆斯保持良好关系。她唯一依赖伊莎贝拉来获取任何类型的信息。詹姆斯曾抗议在返回牛津之前不给她写信。在她回到富勒顿之前，艾伦夫人并没有给她一封信。但伊莎贝拉一再承诺；而且她答应一件事，执行起来又是那么一丝不苟！这就显得特别奇怪了！

For nine successive mornings, Catherine wondered over the repetition of a disappointment, which each morning became more severe: but, on the tenth, when she entered the breakfast-room, her first object was a letter, held out by Henry’s willing hand. She thanked him as heartily as if he had written it himself. ‘‘Tis only from James, however,’ as she looked at the direction. She opened it; it was from Oxford; and to this purpose:
连续九个早晨，凯瑟琳都在担心重复的失望，而且每天早上都变得更加严重：但是，第十天，当她走进早餐室时，她的第一个目标是一封信，亨利乐意的手递过来。她衷心地感谢他，就像他亲手写的一样。 “不过，这只是詹姆斯的消息。”她看着方向。她打开了它；它来自牛津；并为此目的：

‘Dear Catherine,
‘亲爱的凯瑟琳，

‘Though, God knows, with little inclination for writing, I think it my duty to tell you that everything is at an end between Miss Thorpe and me. I left her and Bath yesterday, never to see either again. I shall not enter into particulars — they would only pain you more. You will soon hear enough from another quarter to know where lies the blame; and I hope will acquit your brother of everything but the folly of too easily thinking his affection returned. Thank God! I am undeceived in time! But it is a heavy blow! After my father’s consent had been so kindly given — but no more of this. She has made me miserable forever! Let me soon hear from you, dear Catherine; you are my only friend; your love I do build upon. I wish your visit at Northanger may be over before Captain Tilney makes his engagement known, or you will be uncomfortably circumstanced. Poor Thorpe is in town: I dread the sight of him; his honest heart would feel so much. I have written to him and my father. Her duplicity hurts me more than all; till the very last, if I reasoned with her, she declared herself as much attached to me as ever, and laughed at my fears. I am ashamed to think how long I bore with it; but if ever man had reason to believe himself loved, I was that man. I cannot understand even now what she would be at, for there could be no need of my being played off to make her secure of Tilney. We parted at last by mutual consent — happy for me had we never met! I can never expect to know such another woman! Dearest Catherine, beware how you give your heart. ‘Believe me,’ &c.
“尽管如此，上帝知道，我不太愿意写作，但我认为我有责任告诉你，索普小姐和我之间的一切都结束了。昨天我离开了她和巴斯，再也没有见过他们。我不会详细说明——它们只会让你更加痛苦。你很快就会从另一方听到足够多的声音，知道责任在哪里；我希望你的兄弟能摆脱一切罪责，除了太容易认为他的感情会得到回报的愚蠢行为之外。感谢上帝！我及时不被骗了！但这是一个沉重的打击！在我父亲如此善意地同意之后——但仅此而已。她让我永远痛苦不已！让我很快收到你的来信，亲爱的凯瑟琳；你是我唯一的朋友；你的爱是我的基础。我希望你在蒂尔尼船长宣布订婚之前就结束对诺桑觉的访问，否则你会遇到不舒服的情况。可怜的索普在城里：我害怕看到他；他诚实的心会感触良多。我已经写信给他和我的父亲。她的口是心非最让我伤心。直到最后，如果我跟她讲道理，她就会宣称自己一如既往地依恋我，并嘲笑我的恐惧。我羞于想到我忍受了多久；但如果有人有理由相信自己被爱的话，我就是那个人。即使现在我也无法理解她会做什么，因为没有必要为了让她保护蒂尔尼而欺骗我。我们最终在双方同意下分手了——如果我们从未见过面，我真高兴！我没想到还能认识这样一个女人！最亲爱的凯瑟琳，请注意你如何付出你的心。 “相信我”等等。

Catherine had not read three lines before her sudden change of countenance, and short exclamations of sorrowing wonder, declared her to be receiving unpleasant news; and Henry, earnestly watching her through the whole letter, saw plainly that it ended no better than it began. He was prevented, however, from even looking his surprise by his father’s entrance. They went to breakfast directly; but Catherine could hardly eat anything. Tears filled her eyes, and even ran down her cheeks as she sat. The letter was one moment in her hand, then in her lap, and then in her pocket; and she looked as if she knew not what she did. The general, between his cocoa and his newspaper, had luckily no leisure for noticing her; but to the other two her distress was equally visible. As soon as she dared leave the table she hurried away to her own room; but the housemaids were busy in it, and she was obliged to come down again. She turned into the drawing-room for privacy, but Henry and Eleanor had likewise retreated thither, and were at that moment deep in consultation about her. She drew back, trying to beg their pardon, but was, with gentle violence, forced to return; and the others withdrew, after Eleanor had affectionately expressed a wish of being of use or comfort to her.
凯瑟琳还没读完三行，她的脸色就突然变了，并发出一声悲痛的惊呼，宣告她收到了一个不愉快的消息。亨利认真地看着她读完整封信，清楚地看到，结尾并不比开头好。然而，当他父亲进来时，他甚至没有表现出惊讶的表情。他们直接去吃早餐了；但凯瑟琳几乎吃不下任何东西。她的眼睛里充满了泪水，甚至在她坐着的时候，泪水顺着脸颊流了下来。这封信一会儿在她手里，一会儿又放在她的腿上，然后又放进了她的口袋里。她看起来好像不知道自己做了什么。幸运的是，将军一边喝着可可，一边看着报纸，没有闲暇去注意她。但对于另外两个人来说，她的痛苦同样显而易见。她一敢离开餐桌，就赶紧跑回自己的房间。但女仆们正忙着，她只得又下来了。为了保护隐私，她走进客厅，但亨利和埃莉诺也同样退到了那里，此刻正在深入讨论她的情况。她退后一步，试图请求他们的原谅，但他们却以温和的暴力迫使她返回。在埃莉诺深情地表达了对她有用或安慰的愿望后，其他人都退出了。

After half an hour’s free indulgence of grief and reflection, Catherine felt equal to encountering her friends; but whether she should make her distress known to them was another consideration. Perhaps, if particularly questioned, she might just give an idea — just distantly hint at it — but not more. To expose a friend, such a friend as Isabella had been to her — and then their own brother so closely concerned in it! She believed she must waive the subject altogether. Henry and Eleanor were by themselves in the breakfast-room; and each, as she entered it, looked at her anxiously. Catherine took her place at the table, and, after a short silence, Eleanor said, ‘No bad news from Fullerton, I hope? Mr. and Mrs. Morland — your brothers and sisters — I hope they are none of them ill?’
经过半个小时的自由沉思和沉思，凯瑟琳感觉自己就像见到了她的朋友们一样。但她是否应该让他们知道她的痛苦是另一个考虑因素。或许，如果受到特别询问，她可能只是给出一个想法——只是遥远地暗示一下——但不会更多。揭露一个朋友，像伊莎贝拉这样的朋友曾经对她如此——然后他们自己的兄弟又与这件事密切相关！她相信她必须完全放弃这个话题。早餐室里只有亨利和埃莉诺。当她走进去时，每个人都焦急地看着她。凯瑟琳在餐桌旁就座，短暂的沉默后，埃莉诺说道：“我希望富勒顿没有传来坏消息吧？”莫兰先生和莫兰夫人——你们的兄弟姐妹——我希望他们都没有生病吧？

‘No, I thank you’ (sighing as she spoke); ‘they are all very well. My letter was from my brother at Oxford.’
“不，我谢谢你”（她说话时叹了口气）； ‘他们都很好。我的信是我在牛津的兄弟寄来的。

Nothing further was said for a few minutes; and then speaking through her tears, she added, ‘I do not think I shall ever wish for a letter again!’
接下来的几分钟里，大家都没有再说什么。然后她流着泪补充道：“我想我再也不会想要一封信了！”

‘I am sorry,’ said Henry, closing the book he had just opened; ‘if I had suspected the letter of containing anything unwelcome, I should have given it with very different feelings.’
“我很抱歉，”亨利合上刚刚打开的书说道。 “如果我怀疑这封信包含任何不受欢迎的内容，我会带着截然不同的感觉来写这封信。”

‘It contained something worse than anybody could suppose! Poor James is so unhappy! You will soon know why.’
‘里面包含的东西比任何人想象的都要糟糕！可怜的詹姆斯真是不高兴啊！你很快就会知道为什么。

‘To have so kind-hearted, so affectionate a sister,’ replied Henry warmly, ‘must be a comfort to him under any distress.’
“有一个如此善良、如此深情的妹妹，”亨利热情地回答道，“在任何痛苦的时候，对他来说一定是一种安慰。”

‘I have one favour to beg,’ said Catherine, shortly afterwards, in an agitated manner, ‘that, if your brother should be coming here, you will give me notice of it, that I may go away.’
“我有一件事要请你帮个忙，”凯瑟琳不久后激动地说道，“如果你的兄弟要来这里，请通知我，这样我就可以离开了。”

‘Our brother! Frederick!’
‘我们的兄弟！弗雷德里克！

‘Yes; I am sure I should be very sorry to leave you so soon, but something has happened that would make it very dreadful for me to be in the same house with Captain Tilney.’
'是的;我确信这么快就离开你我会感到非常遗憾，但是发生了一些事情，这会让我和蒂尔尼船长住在同一所房子里感到非常可怕。

Eleanor’s work was suspended while she gazed with increasing astonishment; but Henry began to suspect the truth, and something, in which Miss Thorpe’s name was included, passed his lips.
埃莉诺的工作暂停了，她越来越惊讶地看着她。但亨利开始怀疑事情的真相，于是他说出了一些话，其中有索普小姐的名字。

‘How quick you are!’ cried Catherine: ‘you have guessed it, I declare! And yet, when we talked about it in Bath, you little thought of its ending so. Isabella — no wonder now I have not heard from her — Isabella has deserted my brother, and is to marry yours! Could you have believed there had been such inconstancy and fickleness, and everything that is bad in the world?’
“你的速度真快！”凯瑟琳喊道，“我宣布，你已经猜到了！”然而，当我们在巴斯谈论这件事时，你很少想到它的结局如此。伊莎贝拉——难怪现在我没有收到她的消息——伊莎贝拉抛弃了我的兄弟，要嫁给你的兄弟！你能相信世界上竟然有如此反复无常、变化无常的事情吗？

‘I hope, so far as concerns my brother, you are misinformed. I hope he has not had any material share in bringing on Mr. Morland’s disappointment. His marrying Miss Thorpe is not probable. I think you must be deceived so far. I am very sorry for Mr. Morland — sorry that anyone you love should be unhappy; but my surprise would be greater at Frederick’s marrying her than at any other part of the story.’
“我希望，就我的兄弟而言，你被误导了。我希望他没有在造成莫兰先生失望的过程中发挥任何实质性作用。他与索普小姐结婚的可能性不大。我想到目前为止你一定是被骗了。我为莫兰先生感到非常遗憾——很抱歉，你所爱的任何人都不快乐；但弗雷德里克娶了她比故事的其他部分更令我惊讶。”

‘It is very true, however; you shall read James’s letter yourself. Stay — There is one part — ‘ recollecting with a blush the last line.
“然而，这是千真万确的；你应该亲自阅读詹姆斯的信。留下来——有一部分——‘红着脸回忆起最后一句话。

‘Will you take the trouble of reading to us the passages which concern my brother?’
“您能麻烦给我们读一下有关我弟弟的段落吗？”

‘No, read it yourself,’ cried Catherine, whose second thoughts were clearer. ‘I do not know what I was thinking of’ (blushing again that she had blushed before); ‘James only means to give me good advice.’
“不，你自己读一下，”凯瑟琳喊道，她的第二个想法更加清晰了。 “我不知道我在想什么”（再次因为之前脸红过而脸红）； “詹姆斯只是想给我好的建议。”

He gladly received the letter, and, having read it through, with close attention, returned it saying, ‘Well, if it is to be so, I can only say that I am sorry for it. Frederick will not be the first man who has chosen a wife with less sense than his family expected. I do not envy his situation, either as a lover or a son.’
他很高兴地收到了这封信，并仔细阅读了这封信，然后回信说：“好吧，如果真是这样，我只能说我很抱歉。”腓特烈不会是第一个选择妻子的明智程度低于家人预期的男人。我并不羡慕他的处境，无论是作为情人还是作为儿子。”

Miss Tilney, at Catherine’s invitation, now read the letter likewise, and, having expressed also her concern and surprise, began to inquire into Miss Thorpe’s connections and fortune.
蒂尔尼小姐应凯瑟琳的邀请，同样读了这封信，并表达了她的担忧和惊讶，开始询问索普小姐的关系和财产。

‘Her mother is a very good sort of woman,’ was Catherine’s answer.
“她的母亲是一位非常好的女人，”凯瑟琳回答道。

‘What was her father?’
“她的父亲是什么？”

‘A lawyer, I believe. They live at Putney.’
“我相信是律师。他们住在普特尼。

‘Are they a wealthy family?’
“他们是富裕家庭吗？”

‘No, not very. I do not believe Isabella has any fortune at all: but that will not signify in your family. Your father is so very liberal! He told me the other day that he only valued money as it allowed him to promote the happiness of his children.’ The brother and sister looked at each other. ‘But,’ said Eleanor, after a short pause, ‘would it be to promote his happiness, to enable him to marry such a girl? She must be an unprincipled one, or she could not have used your brother so. And how strange an infatuation on Frederick’s side! A girl who, before his eyes, is violating an engagement voluntarily entered into with another man! Is not it inconceivable, Henry? Frederick too, who always wore his heart so proudly! Who found no woman good enough to be loved!’
“不，不太。”我不相信伊莎贝拉有任何财富：但这对你的家庭来说并不重要。你父亲真是太自由了！有一天他告诉我，他只看重金钱，因为金钱能让他促进孩子们的幸福。”兄妹面面相觑。 “但是，”埃莉诺停顿了一下后说道，“难道是为了促进他的幸福，让他娶这样一个女孩吗？她一定是一个没有原则的人，不然她不可能这样利用你哥哥。腓特烈这边的迷恋是多么奇怪啊！一个女孩，在他的眼前，违背了与另一个男人自愿订下的婚约！这不是不可思议吗，亨利？弗雷德里克也是如此，他总是那么自豪地表达自己的心！谁发现没有一个女人值得被爱！

‘That is the most unpromising circumstance, the strongest presumption against him. When I think of his past declarations, I give him up. Moreover, I have too good an opinion of Miss Thorpe’s prudence to suppose that she would part with one gentleman before the other was secured. It is all over with Frederick indeed! He is a deceased man — defunct in understanding. Prepare for your sister-in-law, Eleanor, and such a sister-in-law as you must delight in! Open, candid, artless, guileless, with affections strong but simple, forming no pretensions, and knowing no disguise.’
‘这是最没有希望的情况，是对他最强烈的假设。当我想起他过去的声明时，我放弃了他。此外，我对索普小姐的谨慎态度抱有很好的看法，认为她不会在另一位绅士得到保障之前就与另一位绅士分手。弗雷德里克的一切确实结束了！他是一个已故的人——失去了理解力。为你的嫂子埃莉诺和这样一个你一定喜欢的嫂子做好准备吧！开放、坦率、天真、朴实，感情强烈而简单，不做作，不伪装。”

‘Such a sister-in-law, Henry, I should delight in,’ said Eleanor with a smile.
“这样的嫂子，亨利，我应该很高兴。”埃莉诺微笑着说道。

‘But perhaps,’ observed Catherine, ‘though she has behaved so ill by our family, she may behave better by yours. Now she has really got the man she likes, she may be constant.’
“但是也许，”凯瑟琳说，“虽然她对我们一家人表现得这么不好，但她对你们一家人可能会表现得更好一些。”现在她真的得到了自己喜欢的男人，她可能会一直不变。

‘Indeed I am afraid she will,’ replied Henry; ‘I am afraid she will be very constant, unless a baronet should come in her way; that is Frederick’s only chance. I will get the Bath paper, and look over the arrivals.’
“确实，我担心她会的，”亨利回答道。 “我担心她会非常固执，除非有男爵挡住她的路。这是腓特烈唯一的机会。我去拿浴纸，检查一下到达的人。

‘You think it is all for ambition, then? And, upon my word, there are some things that seem very like it. I cannot forget that, when she first knew what my father would do for them, she seemed quite disappointed that it was not more. I never was so deceived in anyone’s character in my life before.’
‘那么你认为这一切都是为了野心吗？而且，据我所知，有些事情看起来非常相似。我无法忘记，当她第一次知道我父亲会为他们做些什么时，她似乎很失望，因为没有更多。在我的一生中，我从来没有被任何人的性格所欺骗过。”

‘Among all the great variety that you have known and studied.’
“在你所了解和研究过的所有种类中。”

‘My own disappointment and loss in her is very great; but, as for poor James, I suppose he will hardly ever recover it.’
“我对她感到非常失望和失落；但是，至于可怜的詹姆斯，我想他很难恢复它。

‘Your brother is certainly very much to be pitied at present; but we must not, in our concern for his sufferings, undervalue yours. You feel, I suppose, that in losing Isabella, you lose half yourself: you feel a void in your heart which nothing else can occupy. Society is becoming irksome; and as for the amusements in which you were wont to share at Bath, the very idea of them without her is abhorrent. You would not, for instance, now go to a ball for the world. You feel that you have no longer any friend to whom you can speak with unreserve, on whose regard you can place dependence, or whose counsel, in any difficulty, you could rely on. You feel all this?’
‘你的兄弟现在确实很可怜；但我们决不能在关心他的痛苦时低估你的痛苦。我想，你会觉得失去伊莎贝拉就失去了一半的自己：你感到内心空虚，没有任何东西可以占据。社会变得令人厌烦；至于你们在巴斯经常参加的娱乐活动，一想到没有她在场，那就令人厌恶。例如，你现在不会去参加一个为全世界举办的舞会。你觉得你不再有任何可以毫无保留地倾诉的朋友，不再有可以依赖的朋友，或者在任何困难时可以依靠的朋友。你感受到这一切了吗？

‘No,’ said Catherine, after a few moments’ reflection, ‘I do not — ought I? To say the truth, though I am hurt and grieved, that I cannot still love her, that I am never to hear from her, perhaps never to see her again, I do not feel so very, very much afflicted as one would have thought.’
“不，”凯瑟琳沉思了一会儿后说道，“我不——应该吗？”说实话，虽然我很伤心，很伤心，我不能再爱她，我再也听不到她的消息，也许再也见不到她了，但我并不像人们想象的那样感到非常非常痛苦。 .'

‘You feel, as you always do, what is most to the credit of human nature. Such feelings ought to be investigated, that they may know themselves.’
“你一如既往地感受到人性最值得赞扬的是什么。这种感觉应该被调查，这样他们才能了解自己。

Catherine, by some chance or other, found her spirits so very much relieved by this conversation that she could not regret her being led on, though so unaccountably, to mention the circumstance which had produced it.
凯瑟琳不知何故，发现这次谈话使她的精神得到了极大的放松，因此她不会后悔自己被引导，尽管如此莫名其妙地提到了造成这种情况的情况。

Chapter 26
第26章

From this time, the subject was frequently canvassed by the three young people; and Catherine found, with some surprise, that her two young friends were perfectly agreed in considering Isabella’s want of consequence and fortune as likely to throw great difficulties in the way of her marrying their brother. Their persuasion that the general would, upon this ground alone, independent of the objection that might be raised against her character, oppose the connection, turned her feelings moreover with some alarm towards herself. She was as insignificant, and perhaps as portionless, as Isabella; and if the heir of the Tilney property had not grandeur and wealth enough in himself, at what point of interest were the demands of his younger brother to rest? The very painful reflections to which this thought led could only be dispersed by a dependence on the effect of that particular partiality, which, as she was given to understand by his words as well as his actions, she had from the first been so fortunate as to excite in the general; and by a recollection of some most generous and disinterested sentiments on the subject of money, which she had more than once heard him utter, and which tempted her to think his disposition in such matters misunderstood by his children.
从那时起，三个年轻人就经常讨论这个话题。凯瑟琳惊讶地发现，她的两个年轻朋友完全同意伊莎贝拉缺乏影响力和财富，这可能会给她嫁给他们的兄弟带来很大的困难。他们相信，仅凭这一点，将军就会反对这种联系，而不受可能对她的性格提出的反对意见的影响，这使她对自己的感情产生了一些警惕。她和伊莎贝拉一样微不足道，也许也没有什么地位。如果蒂尔尼财产的继承人本身没有足够的威严和财富，那么他弟弟的要求又有什么意义呢？这种想法导致的非常痛苦的反思只能通过依赖这种特殊偏爱的影响来驱散，正如她从他的言语和行为中了解到的那样，她从一开始就如此幸运使普遍兴奋；她不止一次地听他说过关于金钱的一些最慷慨、最无私的观点，这让她觉得他的孩子们误解了他在这些问题上的性格。

They were so fully convinced, however, that their brother would not have the courage to apply in person for his father’s consent, and so repeatedly assured her that he had never in his life been less likely to come to Northanger than at the present time, that she suffered her mind to be at ease as to the necessity of any sudden removal of her own. But as it was not to be supposed that Captain Tilney, whenever he made his application, would give his father any just idea of Isabella’s conduct, it occurred to her as highly expedient that Henry should lay the whole business before him as it really was, enabling the general by that means to form a cool and impartial opinion, and prepare his objections on a fairer ground than inequality of situations. She proposed it to him accordingly; but he did not catch at the measure so eagerly as she had expected. ‘No,’ said he, ‘my father’s hands need not be strengthened, and Frederick’s confession of folly need not be forestalled. He must tell his own story.’
然而，他们完全相信，他们的兄弟没有勇气亲自向父亲申请同意，因此一再向她保证，他一生中从未像现在这样更不可能来诺桑觉，她让自己的心情平静下来，因为她自己的任何突然的离开都是必要的。但是，由于蒂尔尼船长无论何时提出申请，都不会向他的父亲提供有关伊莎贝拉行为的任何公正的想法，因此她认为亨利应该将整个事情确实发生在他面前，这是非常有利的，通过这种方式，使将军能够形成冷静和公正的意见，并在比情况不平等更公平的基础上提出反对意见。她据此向他提出了这个建议。但他并没有像她预想的那样热切地理解这一措施。 “不，”他说，“我父亲的手不需要加强，腓特烈承认自己的愚蠢也不需要阻止。他必须讲述自己的故事。

‘But he will tell only half of it.’
“但他只会说一半。”

‘A quarter would be enough.’
“四分之一就够了。”

A day or two passed away and brought no tidings of Captain Tilney. His brother and sister knew not what to think. Sometimes it appeared to them as if his silence would be the natural result of the suspected engagement, and at others that it was wholly incompatible with it. The general, meanwhile, though offended every morning by Frederick’s remissness in writing, was free from any real anxiety about him, and had no more pressing solicitude than that of making Miss Morland’s time at Northanger pass pleasantly. He often expressed his uneasiness on this head, feared the sameness of every day’s society and employments would disgust her with the place, wished the Lady Frasers had been in the country, talked every now and then of having a large party to dinner, and once or twice began even to calculate the number of young dancing people in the neighbourhood. But then it was such a dead time of year, no wild-fowl, no game, and the Lady Frasers were not in the country. And it all ended, at last, in his telling Henry one morning that when he next went to Woodston, they would take him by surprise there some day or other, and eat their mutton with him. Henry was greatly honoured and very happy, and Catherine was quite delighted with the scheme. ‘And when do you think, sir, I may look forward to this pleasure? I must be at Woodston on Monday to attend the parish meeting, and shall probably be obliged to stay two or three days.’
一两天过去了，蒂尔尼船长没有任何消息。他的兄弟姐妹不知道在想什么。有时他们觉得他的沉默似乎是疑似订婚的自然结果，而另一些人则认为这完全不相容。与此同时，将军虽然每天早上都会因腓特烈在写作上的疏忽而感到不快，但他对他并没有任何真正的焦虑，除了让莫兰小姐在诺桑觉寺度过愉快的时光之外，没有什么比这更迫切的关心了。他经常表达他在这个问题上的不安，担心每天的社会和工作的千篇一律会让她对这个地方感到厌恶，希望弗雷泽夫人在乡下，时不时地谈论要举办一场大型宴会，有一次甚至有两次开始计算附近跳舞的年轻人的数量。但那时正值一年中的死寂季节，没有野禽，没有猎物，而且弗雷泽夫人也不在乡下。最后，有一天早上，他告诉亨利，当他下次去伍德斯顿时，他们总有一天会把他带到那里，并和他一起吃羊肉，这一切都结束了。亨利感到非常荣幸和高兴，凯瑟琳对这个计划也很满意。 “先生，你认为我什么时候才能期待这种快乐呢？”我周一必须在伍德斯顿参加教区会议，并且可能不得不停留两三天。

‘Well, well, we will take our chance some one of those days. There is no need to fix. You are not to put yourself at all out of your way. Whatever you may happen to have in the house will be enough. I think I can answer for the young ladies making allowance for a bachelor’s table. Let me see; Monday will be a busy day with you, we will not come on Monday; and Tuesday will be a busy one with me. I expect my surveyor from Brockham with his report in the morning; and afterwards I cannot in decency fail attending the club. I really could not face my acquaintance if I stayed away now; for, as I am known to be in the country, it would be taken exceedingly amiss; and it is a rule with me, Miss Morland, never to give offence to any of my neighbours, if a small sacrifice of time and attention can prevent it. They are a set of very worthy men. They have half a buck from Northanger twice a year; and I dine with them whenever I can. Tuesday, therefore, we may say is out of the question. But on Wednesday, I think, Henry, you may expect us; and we shall be with you early, that we may have time to look about us. Two hours and three quarters will carry us to Woodston, I suppose; we shall be in the carriage by ten; so, about a quarter before one on Wednesday, you may look for us.’
“好吧，好吧，有一天我们会抓住机会的。无需修复。你不应该让自己陷入困境。家里有什么就足够了。我想我可以为那些考虑光顾单身汉餐桌的年轻女士们负责。让我看看;周一对你来说会是忙碌的一天，我们周一不会来；周二对我来说将会是忙碌的一天。我期待布罗克姆的测量员早上带来他的报告；之后我就不能不参加俱乐部了。如果我现在离开，我真的无法面对我的熟人；因为据我所知，我在这个国家，这会被认为是非常错误的。莫兰小姐，我有一条规矩，只要牺牲一点时间和注意力就可以避免冒犯任何邻居。他们是一群非常有价值的人。他们每年两次从诺桑觉寺得到半美元；只要有机会我就会和他们一起吃饭。因此，我们可以说星期二是不可能的。但我想，亨利，星期三你可能会期待我们；我们会早点到你们那里，这样我们就有时间四处看看。我想，两个小时零三刻钟我们就能到达伍德斯顿了。我们将在十点前乘车；所以，周三大约一刻钟左右，您可以找我们。”

A ball itself could not have been more welcome to Catherine than this little excursion, so strong was her desire to be acquainted with Woodston; and her heart was still bounding with joy when Henry, about an hour afterwards, came booted and greatcoated into the room where she and Eleanor were sitting, and said, ‘I am come, young ladies, in a very moralizing strain, to observe that our pleasures in this world are always to be paid for, and that we often purchase them at a great disadvantage, giving ready-monied actual happiness for a draft on the future, that may not be honoured. Witness myself, at this present hour. Because I am to hope for the satisfaction of seeing you at Woodston on Wednesday, which bad weather, or twenty other causes, may prevent, I must go away directly, two days before I intended it.’
对于凯瑟琳来说，舞会本身就没有比这次短途旅行更受欢迎的了，因为她想结识伍德斯顿的愿望是如此强烈。大约一个小时后，当亨利穿着靴子、穿着大衣走进她和埃莉诺坐的房间时，她的心仍然充满喜悦，说道：“我来了，年轻的女士们，带着一种非常道德的语气，观察我们在这个世界上的快乐总是需要付出代价的，而且我们常常以极大的劣势购买它们，为未来的草案提供现成的实际幸福，而这可能不会兑现。就在此时此刻，我自己就是见证。因为我希望周三能在伍德斯顿见到你，而恶劣的天气或其他二十种原因可能会阻止你，所以我必须直接离开，比我原计划提前两天。

‘Go away!’ said Catherine, with a very long face. ‘And why?’
“走开！”凯瑟琳拉长了脸说道。 “那为什么呢？”

‘Why! How can you ask the question? Because no time is to be lost in frightening my old housekeeper out of her wits, because I must go and prepare a dinner for you, to be sure.’
'为什么！你怎么能问这个问题？因为不能浪费时间把我的老管家吓得魂不附体，因为我必须去为你准备晚餐，这是肯定的。

‘Oh! Not seriously!’
'哦！不是认真的！

‘Aye, and sadly too — for I had much rather stay.’
“是的，也很遗憾——因为我宁愿留下来。”

‘But how can you think of such a thing, after what the general said? When he so particularly desired you not to give yourself any trouble, because anything would do.’
‘可是将军这么一说，你怎么会想到这种事呢？当他特别希望你不要给自己带来任何麻烦时，因为任何事情都可以。

Henry only smiled. ‘I am sure it is quite unnecessary upon your sister’s account and mine. You must know it to be so; and the general made such a point of your providing nothing extraordinary: besides, if he had not said half so much as he did, he has always such an excellent dinner at home, that sitting down to a middling one for one day could not signify.’
亨利只是微笑。 “我相信，为了你姐姐和我的缘故，这是完全没有必要的。”你一定知道是这样的；将军特别强调你没有提供任何特别的东西：此外，如果他没有说那么多的话，他家里的晚餐总是如此美味，一天坐下来吃一顿中等的饭菜并不能说明什么。 .'

‘I wish I could reason like you, for his sake and my own. Good-bye. As tomorrow is Sunday, Eleanor, I shall not return.’
“我希望我能像你一样推理，为了他，也为了我自己。”再见。埃莉诺，明天是周日，我不会回来。

He went; and, it being at any time a much simpler operation to Catherine to doubt her own judgment than Henry’s, she was very soon obliged to give him credit for being right, however disagreeable to her his going. But the inexplicability of the general’s conduct dwelt much on her thoughts. That he was very particular in his eating, she had, by her own unassisted observation, already discovered; but why he should say one thing so positively, and mean another all the while, was most unaccountable! How were people, at that rate, to be understood? Who but Henry could have been aware of what his father was at?
他去;而且，对凯瑟琳来说，怀疑自己的判断在任何时候都比怀疑亨利的判断容易得多，她很快就不得不相信他是正确的，无论他的做法多么令她不愉快。但将军的莫名其妙的行为却深深地萦绕在她的心头。她通过自己的观察，已经发现他在饮食上非常讲究。但为什么他会如此积极地说一件事，却一直意味着另一件事，真是令人费解！照这样的速度，人们如何被理解呢？除了亨利之外，谁能知道他父亲在做什么呢？

From Saturday to Wednesday, however, they were now to be without Henry. This was the sad finale of every reflection: and Captain Tilney’s letter would certainly come in his absence; and Wednesday she was very sure would be wet. The past, present, and future were all equally in gloom. Her brother so unhappy, and her loss in Isabella so great; and Eleanor’s spirits always affected by Henry’s absence! What was there to interest or amuse her? She was tired of the woods and the shrubberies — always so smooth and so dry; and the abbey in itself was no more to her now than any other house. The painful remembrance of the folly it had helped to nourish and perfect was the only emotion which could spring from a consideration of the building. What a revolution in her ideas! She, who had so longed to be in an abbey! Now, there was nothing so charming to her imagination as the unpretending comfort of a well-connected parsonage, something like Fullerton, but better: Fullerton had its faults, but Woodston probably had none. If Wednesday should ever come!
然而，从周六到周三，亨利将缺席。这是每一次反思的悲伤结局：蒂尔尼船长的信肯定会在他缺席的情况下到达；星期三她非常确定会被淋湿。过去、现在和未来都同样黯淡。她的哥哥非常不高兴，伊莎贝拉对她来说也是巨大的损失。而埃莉诺的精神总是因为亨利的缺席而受到影响！有什么能让她感兴趣或逗乐的？她厌倦了树林和灌木丛——总是那么光滑、那么干燥；现在，修道院本身对她来说并不比任何其他房子都重要。对这座建筑所助长和完善的愚蠢行为的痛苦回忆是对这座建筑的思考中唯一能产生的情感。她的思想发生了多么大的革命啊！她，多么渴望进入修道院啊！现在，没有什么比一个人脉广泛的牧师住宅所带来的朴实无华的舒适感更吸引她的想象力了，就像富勒顿那样，但更好：富勒顿有它的缺点，但伍德斯顿可能没有。如果星期三真的到来就好了！

It did come, and exactly when it might be reasonably looked for. It came — it was fine — and Catherine trod on air. By ten o’clock, the chaise and four conveyed the two from the abbey; and, after an agreeable drive of almost twenty miles, they entered Woodston, a large and populous village, in a situation not unpleasant. Catherine was ashamed to say how pretty she thought it, as the general seemed to think an apology necessary for the flatness of the country, and the size of the village; but in her heart she preferred it to any place she had ever been at, and looked with great admiration at every neat house above the rank of a cottage, and at all the little chandler’s shops which they passed. At the further end of the village, and tolerably disengaged from the rest of it, stood the parsonage, a new-built substantial stone house, with its semicircular sweep and green gates; and, as they drove up to the door, Henry, with the friends of his solitude, a large Newfoundland puppy and two or three terriers, was ready to receive and make much of them.
它确实来了，而且正是在可以合理寻找的时候。它来了——很好——凯瑟琳踏上了空气。十点钟，马车和四人把两人从修道院送了出来。愉快地行驶了近二十英里后，他们进入了伍德斯顿，一个人口稠密的大村庄，情况并不令人不快。凯瑟琳羞于说出她的想法有多漂亮，因为将军似乎认为，对于这个国家的平坦和村庄的规模来说，道歉是必要的。但在她心里，她更喜欢这里，胜过她曾经去过的任何地方，她怀着极大的钦佩之情看着每一座高于小屋的整洁的房子，以及他们经过的所有小杂货店。村庄的另一端，矗立着牧师住宅，与村庄的其他部分相距甚远，这是一栋新建的坚固的石屋，有半圆形的门廊和绿色的大门。当他们开车到门口时，亨利和他的孤独朋友，一只大纽芬兰小狗和两三只小猎犬，准备好迎接并充分利用他们。

Catherine’s mind was too full, as she entered the house, for her either to observe or to say a great deal; and, till called on by the general for her opinion of it, she had very little idea of the room in which she was sitting. Upon looking round it then, she perceived in a moment that it was the most comfortable room in the world; but she was too guarded to say so, and the coldness of her praise disappointed him.
凯瑟琳走进屋子时，脑子里一片空白，既没时间观察，也没时间说很多话。在将军询问她对此的看法之前，她对自己所坐的房间知之甚少。环顾四周，她立刻意识到这是世界上最舒适的房间。但她太谨慎了，不敢这么说，而且她的冷漠的赞美让他很失望。

‘We are not calling it a good house,’ said he. ‘We are not comparing it with Fullerton and Northanger — we are considering it as a mere parsonage, small and confined, we allow, but decent, perhaps, and habitable; and altogether not inferior to the generality; or, in other words, I believe there are few country parsonages in England half so good. It may admit of improvement, however. Far be it from me to say otherwise; and anything in reason — a bow thrown out, perhaps — though, between ourselves, if there is one thing more than another my aversion, it is a patched-on bow.’
“我们并没有称其为好房子，”他说。 “我们并不是将它与富勒顿和诺桑觉寺进行比较——我们只是将其视为一处牧师住宅，小而狭窄，我们允许，但也许是体面的，并且适合居住；总体而言，并不逊色于一般性；或者，换句话说，我相信英格兰很少有乡村牧师住宅能有这么好的。然而，它可能承认有改进。我绝不会这么说；任何合乎情理的东西——也许是一把被扔掉的弓——不过，在我们之间，如果说我最厌恶的一件事就是一把补过补丁的弓。

Catherine did not hear enough of this speech to understand or be pained by it; and other subjects being studiously brought forward and supported by Henry, at the same time that a tray full of refreshments was introduced by his servant, the general was shortly restored to his complacency, and Catherine to all her usual ease of spirits.
凯瑟琳没有听够这段话，无法理解或感到痛苦。亨利精心提出并支持了其他主题，同时他的仆人送来了装满茶点的托盘，将军很快就恢复了自满，凯瑟琳也恢复了往常的轻松精神。

The room in question was of a commodious, well-proportioned size, and handsomely fitted up as a dining-parlour; and on their quitting it to walk round the grounds, she was shown, first into a smaller apartment, belonging peculiarly to the master of the house, and made unusually tidy on the occasion; and afterwards into what was to be the drawing-room, with the appearance of which, though unfurnished, Catherine was delighted enough even to satisfy the general. It was a prettily shaped room, the windows reaching to the ground, and the view from them pleasant, though only over green meadows; and she expressed her admiration at the moment with all the honest simplicity with which she felt it. ‘Oh! Why do not you fit up this room, Mr. Tilney? What a pity not to have it fitted up! It is the prettiest room I ever saw; it is the prettiest room in the world!’
这个房间宽敞、比例匀称，布置得很漂亮，就像一个餐厅。当他们离开房子在院子里散步时，她首先被带到了一间较小的公寓，这间公寓专门属于房子的主人，而且这次布置得异常整洁。随后，她走进了即将成为客厅的地方，尽管没有家具，凯瑟琳还是很高兴，甚至让将军也满意了。这是一间形状漂亮的房间，窗户一直延伸到地面，窗外的景色令人愉悦，尽管只能看到绿色的草地。她此刻以她所感受到的所有诚实的单纯表达了她的钦佩。 '哦！蒂尔尼先生，你为什么不装修一下这个房间呢？没装上真是可惜啊！这是我见过的最漂亮的房间；这是世界上最漂亮的房间！”

‘I trust,’ said the general, with a most satisfied smile, ‘that it will very speedily be furnished: it waits only for a lady’s taste!’
“我相信，”将军带着极其满意的微笑说道，“它会很快被布置好：它只等待一位女士的品味！”

‘Well, if it was my house, I should never sit anywhere else. Oh! What a sweet little cottage there is among the trees — apple trees, too! It is the prettiest cottage!’
“好吧，如果这是我的房子，我就不应该坐在其他地方。哦！树林里有一座多么可爱的小小屋——还有苹果树！这是最漂亮的小屋！”

‘You like it — you approve it as an object — it is enough. Henry, remember that Robinson is spoken to about it. The cottage remains.’
“你喜欢它——你认可它作为一个物品——这就足够了。”亨利，记住有人和罗宾逊谈过这件事。小屋仍然存在。

Such a compliment recalled all Catherine’s consciousness, and silenced her directly; and, though pointedly applied to by the general for her choice of the prevailing colour of the paper and hangings, nothing like an opinion on the subject could be drawn from her. The influence of fresh objects and fresh air, however, was of great use in dissipating these embarrassing associations; and, having reached the ornamental part of the premises, consisting of a walk round two sides of a meadow, on which Henry’s genius had begun to act about half a year ago, she was sufficiently recovered to think it prettier than any pleasure-ground she had ever been in before, though there was not a shrub in it higher than the green bench in the corner.
这样的称赞，让凯瑟琳的意识全部被召回，直接让她沉默了。尽管将军明确要求她选择纸张和帷幔的流行颜色，但她却无法从她那里得出关于这个问题的任何意见。然而，新鲜物体和新鲜空气的影响对于消除这些令人尴尬的联想非常有用。到达了场地的装饰部分，包括绕着草地两侧散步，亨利的天才大约半年前就开始在草地上发挥作用，她已经完全恢复过来，认为它比她所见过的任何游乐场都漂亮。以前来过，虽然里面没有一棵灌木比角落里的绿色长凳高。

A saunter into other meadows, and through part of the village, with a visit to the stables to examine some improvements, and a charming game of play with a litter of puppies just able to roll about, brought them to four o’clock, when Catherine scarcely thought it could be three. At four they were to dine, and at six to set off on their return. Never had any day passed so quickly!
闲逛到其他草地，穿过村庄的一部分，参观马厩检查一些改进，并与一窝刚会滚来滚去的小狗玩一场迷人的游戏，把他们带到了四点钟，当凯瑟琳几乎没想到会是三个。四点钟他们吃饭，六点钟出发回程。从来没有哪一天过得这么快！

She could not but observe that the abundance of the dinner did not seem to create the smallest astonishment in the general; nay, that he was even looking at the side-table for cold meat which was not there. His son and daughter’s observations were of a different kind. They had seldom seen him eat so heartily at any table but his own, and never before known him so little disconcerted by the melted butter’s being oiled.
她不得不说，丰盛的晚餐似乎并没有给大家带来丝毫的惊讶。不，他甚至在边桌上寻找冷肉，但那里并不存在。他的儿子和女儿的观察是不同的。除了他自己的餐桌之外，他们很少看到他在其他餐桌上吃得如此丰盛，而且以前从未见过他对融化的黄油上油如此不感到不安。

At six o’clock, the general having taken his coffee, the carriage again received them; and so gratifying had been the tenor of his conduct throughout the whole visit, so well assured was her mind on the subject of his expectations, that, could she have felt equally confident of the wishes of his son, Catherine would have quitted Woodston with little anxiety as to the How or the When she might return to it.
六点钟，将军喝完咖啡，马车又来迎接他们了。在整个访问期间，他的行为举止非常令人满意，她对他的期望也非常放心，如果她对他儿子的愿望也有同样的信心，凯瑟琳就会毫不费力地离开伍德斯顿。对如何或何时返回的焦虑。

Chapter 27
第27章

The next morning brought the following very unexpected letter from Isabella:
第二天早上，伊莎贝拉收到了以下非常出乎意料的来信：

Bath, April
巴斯，四月

My dearest Catherine, I received your two kind letters with the greatest delight, and have a thousand apologies to make for not answering them sooner. I really am quite ashamed of my idleness; but in this horrid place one can find time for nothing. I have had my pen in my hand to begin a letter to you almost every day since you left Bath, but have always been prevented by some silly trifler or other. Pray write to me soon, and direct to my own home. Thank God, we leave this vile place tomorrow. Since you went away, I have had no pleasure in it — the dust is beyond anything; and everybody one cares for is gone. I believe if I could see you I should not mind the rest, for you are dearer to me than anybody can conceive. I am quite uneasy about your dear brother, not having heard from him since he went to Oxford; and am fearful of some misunderstanding. Your kind offices will set all right: he is the only man I ever did or could love, and I trust you will convince him of it. The spring fashions are partly down; and the hats the most frightful you can imagine. I hope you spend your time pleasantly, but am afraid you never think of me. I will not say all that I could of the family you are with, because I would not be ungenerous, or set you against those you esteem; but it is very difficult to know whom to trust, and young men never know their minds two days together. I rejoice to say that the young man whom, of all others, I particularly abhor, has left Bath. You will know, from this description, I must mean Captain Tilney, who, as you may remember, was amazingly disposed to follow and tease me, before you went away. Afterwards he got worse, and became quite my shadow. Many girls might have been taken in, for never were such attentions; but I knew the fickle sex too well. He went away to his regiment two days ago, and I trust I shall never be plagued with him again. He is the greatest coxcomb I ever saw, and amazingly disagreeable. The last two days he was always by the side of Charlotte Davis: I pitied his taste, but took no notice of him. The last time we met was in Bath Street, and I turned directly into a shop that he might not speak to me; I would not even look at him. He went into the pump-room afterwards; but I would not have followed him for all the world. Such a contrast between him and your brother! Pray send me some news of the latter — I am quite unhappy about him; he seemed so uncomfortable when he went away, with a cold, or something that affected his spirits. I would write to him myself, but have mislaid his direction; and, as I hinted above, am afraid he took something in my conduct amiss. Pray explain everything to his satisfaction; or, if he still harbours any doubt, a line from himself to me, or a call at Putney when next in town, might set all to rights. I have not been to the rooms this age, nor to the play, except going in last night with the Hodges, for a frolic, at half price: they teased me into it; and I was determined they should not say I shut myself up because Tilney was gone. We happened to sit by the Mitchells, and they pretended to be quite surprised to see me out. I knew their spite: at one time they could not be civil to me, but now they are all friendship; but I am not such a fool as to be taken in by them. You know I have a pretty good spirit of my own. Anne Mitchell had tried to put on a turban like mine, as I wore it the week before at the concert, but made wretched work of it — it happened to become my odd face, I believe, at least Tilney told me so at the time, and said every eye was upon me; but he is the last man whose word I would take. I wear nothing but purple now: I know I look hideous in it, but no matter — it is your dear brother’s favourite colour. Lose no time, my dearest, sweetest Catherine, in writing to him and to me, Who ever am, etc.
我最亲爱的凯瑟琳，我非常高兴地收到了你的两封善意的来信，对于没有尽快回复你我深表歉意。我实在为自己的懒惰感到羞愧；但在这个可怕的地方，人们可以找到无所事事的时间。自从你离开巴斯以来，我几乎每天都拿着笔给你写信，但总是被一些愚蠢的小事或其他事情阻止。请尽快给我写信，并直接到我家。感谢上帝，我们明天就离开这个肮脏的地方。自从你走后，我就没有任何乐趣了——灰尘比什么都重要；每个人关心的人都消失了。我相信，如果我能见到你，我就不会介意其余的事情，因为你对我来说比任何人都更亲爱。我对你亲爱的兄弟感到很不安，自从他去了牛津之后就没有他的消息了；我担心会产生一些误解。你的善意的办公室会让一切顺利：他是我曾经做过或可以爱的唯一的人，我相信你会让他相信这一点。春季时装部分下滑；还有你能想象到的最可怕的帽子。我希望你度过愉快的时光，但恐怕你从来没有想到过我。我不会尽我所能地谈论你所在的家庭，因为我不会吝啬，也不会让你与你所尊敬的人为敌；但要知道该信任谁是很困难的，年轻人在一起两天永远不会知道自己的想法。我很高兴地说，在所有其他人中，我特别憎恶的那个年轻人已经离开了巴斯。你会知道，从这个描述中，我指的是蒂尔尼船长，你可能还记得，在你离开之前，他非常愿意跟踪我并取笑我。后来他的病情越来越严重，简直成了我的影子。很多女孩可能都被骗了，因为从来没有受到过如此的关注。但我太了解性的善变了。 两天前他就回部队去了，我相信我再也不会受他的困扰了。他是我见过的最伟大的花花公子，而且极其令人讨厌。这两天他一直在夏洛特·戴维斯身边：我可怜他的品味，却没有理睬他。我们最后一次见面是在巴斯街，我直接走进一家商店，他可能不会跟我说话；我什至都不会看他。随后他走进泵房。但我不会一生追随他。他和你弟弟的反差太大了！请给我一些关于后者的消息——我对他很不满意；当他离开时，他看起来很不舒服，要么是感冒了，要么是其他什么影响了他的精神的事情。我本想亲自给他写信，但迷失了他的方向；而且，正如我上面所暗示的，恐怕他认为我的行为有些不对劲。祈祷一切都解释得令他满意；或者，如果他仍然心存疑虑，他可以给我写一封信，或者下次进城时给普特尼打电话，可能会让一切恢复正常。这个年纪我没有去过房间，也没有去看戏，除了昨晚和霍奇一家一起去嬉戏，半价：他们逗我进去；我决心他们不应该说我因为蒂尔尼走了而把自己关起来。我们碰巧坐在米切尔一家旁边，他们看到我出去，假装很惊讶。我知道他们的恶意：曾经他们对我不太客气，但现在他们全都是友谊；但我不会傻到被他们欺骗。你知道我自己的精神很好。 安妮·米切尔曾试图戴上像我一样的头巾，就像我前一周在音乐会上戴的那样，但结果很糟糕——我相信，它碰巧变成了我的奇怪脸，至少蒂尔尼当时是这么告诉我的，并说每个人的眼睛都在看着我；但他是我最不会相信的人。我现在只穿紫色的衣服：我知道我穿起来很难看，但没关系——这是你亲爱的兄弟最喜欢的颜色。我最亲爱、最可爱的凯瑟琳，请抓紧时间写信给他和我，问我是谁，等等。

Such a strain of shallow artifice could not impose even upon Catherine. Its inconsistencies, contradictions, and falsehood struck her from the very first. She was ashamed of Isabella, and ashamed of having ever loved her. Her professions of attachment were now as disgusting as her excuses were empty, and her demands impudent. ‘Write to James on her behalf! No, James should never hear Isabella’s name mentioned by her again.’
这种肤浅的诡计连凯瑟琳都无法承受。它的不一致、矛盾和虚假从一开始就让她震惊。她为伊莎贝拉感到羞耻，为曾经爱过她而感到羞耻。她的依恋表白现在变得令人厌恶，她的借口空洞，她的要求无礼。 ‘代表她写信给詹姆斯！不，詹姆斯不应该再听到伊莎贝拉的名字被她提起。

On Henry’s arrival from Woodston, she made known to him and Eleanor their brother’s safety, congratulating them with sincerity on it, and reading aloud the most material passages of her letter with strong indignation. When she had finished it — ‘So much for Isabella,’ she cried, ‘and for all our intimacy! She must think me an idiot, or she could not have written so; but perhaps this has served to make her character better known to me than mine is to her. I see what she has been about. She is a vain coquette, and her tricks have not answered. I do not believe she had ever any regard either for James or for me, and I wish I had never known her.’
亨利从伍德斯顿抵达后，她向他和埃莉诺通报了他们兄弟的安全，真诚地祝贺他们，并带着强烈的愤慨大声朗读了信中最重要的段落。当她完成后——“对伊莎贝拉来说，就这么多了，”她喊道，“还有我们所有的亲密关系！”她一定认为我是个白痴，否则她不可能这么写；但也许这让我比她更了解她的性格。我明白她在做什么。她是一个虚荣的风骚者，她的伎俩并没有得到回应。我不相信她对詹姆斯或我有任何尊重，我希望我从来没有认识她。

‘It will soon be as if you never had,’ said Henry.
“很快你就会变得好像从未有过一样，”亨利说。

‘There is but one thing that I cannot understand. I see that she has had designs on Captain Tilney, which have not succeeded; but I do not understand what Captain Tilney has been about all this time. Why should he pay her such attentions as to make her quarrel with my brother, and then fly off himself?’
‘只有一件事我无法理解。我看出她对蒂尔尼船长有过企图，但没有得逞；但我不明白蒂尔尼船长一直以来在做什么。他为什么要这么关心她，让她和我哥哥吵架，然后自己飞走呢？

‘I have very little to say for Frederick’s motives, such as I believe them to have been. He has his vanities as well as Miss Thorpe, and the chief difference is, that, having a stronger head, they have not yet injured himself. If the effect of his behaviour does not justify him with you, we had better not seek after the cause.’
“对于弗雷德里克的动机，我没什么可说的，尽管我相信他们的动机。他和索普小姐一样有虚荣心，主要的区别是，他们的头脑更坚强，但还没有伤害自己。如果他的行为造成的后果不能证明他和你在一起是合理的，我们最好不要追究原因。

‘Then you do not suppose he ever really cared about her?’
“那么你认为他从来没有真正关心过她吗？”

‘I am persuaded that he never did.’
“我确信他从来没有这样做过。”

‘And only made believe to do so for mischief’s sake?’
“而且只是为了恶作剧才让人相信这样做？”

Henry bowed his assent.
亨利鞠躬表示同意。

‘Well, then, I must say that I do not like him at all. Though it has turned out so well for us, I do not like him at all. As it happens, there is no great harm done, because I do not think Isabella has any heart to lose. But, suppose he had made her very much in love with him?’
“那么，我必须说我一点也不喜欢他。尽管我们的关系非常好，但我一点也不喜欢他。碰巧的是，这并没有造成太大的伤害，因为我不认为伊莎贝拉有什么心可以失去。但是，假设他让她非常爱他呢？

‘But we must first suppose Isabella to have had a heart to lose — consequently to have been a very different creature; and, in that case, she would have met with very different treatment.’
“但我们必须首先假设伊莎贝拉有一颗失去的心——因此她是一个非常不同的人；在那种情况下，她会受到截然不同的待遇。

‘It is very right that you should stand by your brother.’
“你应该站在你哥哥一边，这是非常正确的。”

‘And if you would stand by yours, you would not be much distressed by the disappointment of Miss Thorpe. But your mind is warped by an innate principle of general integrity, and therefore not accessible to the cool reasonings of family partiality, or a desire of revenge.’
“如果你坚持自己的立场，你就不会因为索普小姐的失望而感到太痛苦了。”但你的思想被一种与生俱来的正直原则所扭曲，因此无法接受家庭偏袒或复仇欲望的冷静推理。

Catherine was complimented out of further bitterness. Frederick could not be unpardonably guilty, while Henry made himself so agreeable. She resolved on not answering Isabella’s letter, and tried to think no more of it.
凯瑟琳因进一步的痛苦而受到称赞。腓特烈不可能犯下不可饶恕的罪行，而亨利则表现得如此和蔼可亲。她决定不回伊莎贝拉的信，并试图不再去想这件事。

Chapter 28
第28章

Soon after this, the general found himself obliged to go to London for a week; and he left Northanger earnestly regretting that any necessity should rob him even for an hour of Miss Morland’s company, and anxiously recommending the study of her comfort and amusement to his children as their chief object in his absence. His departure gave Catherine the first experimental conviction that a loss may be sometimes a gain. The happiness with which their time now passed, every employment voluntary, every laugh indulged, every meal a scene of ease and good humour, walking where they liked and when they liked, their hours, pleasures, and fatigues at their own command, made her thoroughly sensible of the restraint which the general’s presence had imposed, and most thankfully feel their present release from it. Such ease and such delights made her love the place and the people more and more every day; and had it not been for a dread of its soon becoming expedient to leave the one, and an apprehension of not being equally beloved by the other, she would at each moment of each day have been perfectly happy; but she was now in the fourth week of her visit; before the general came home, the fourth week would be turned, and perhaps it might seem an intrusion if she stayed much longer. This was a painful consideration whenever it occurred; and eager to get rid of such a weight on her mind, she very soon resolved to speak to Eleanor about it at once, propose going away, and be guided in her conduct by the manner in which her proposal might be taken.
此后不久，将军发现自己不得不去伦敦一周。离开诺桑觉时，他深感遗憾，因为任何必要的事情都会让他失去莫兰小姐的陪伴，哪怕是一个小时，他焦急地建议他的孩子们在他不在的时候，研究她的安慰和娱乐，作为他们的主要目标。他的离开让凯瑟琳第一次实验性地确信，失去有时可能是一种收获。他们现在过着幸福的时光，每一次自愿的工作，每一次的欢笑，每顿饭都是轻松愉快的景象，在他们喜欢的地方和时间里散步，他们的时间、快乐和疲劳都由他们自己掌控，使她他们完全意识到将军在场所带来的束缚，而且最值得庆幸的是，他们现在已经摆脱了这种束缚。这样的轻松和愉快让她越来越热爱这个地方和这里的人们。如果不是因为害怕离开一个人很快就会成为权宜之计，并且担心不能得到另一个人同样的爱，她每天的每时每刻都会感到非常幸福。但现在已经是她来访的第四周了。在将军回家之前，第四个星期就到了，如果她待得更久，也许会显得一种侵扰。每当这种情况发生时，都会令人痛苦。她渴望摆脱心中的沉重负担，很快就决定立即与埃莉诺谈谈，提议离开，并以接受她的建议的方式指导她的行为。

Aware that if she gave herself much time, she might feel it difficult to bring forward so unpleasant a subject, she took the first opportunity of being suddenly alone with Eleanor, and of Eleanor’s being in the middle of a speech about something very different, to start forth her obligation of going away very soon. Eleanor looked and declared herself much concerned. She had ‘hoped for the pleasure of her company for a much longer time — had been misled (perhaps by her wishes) to suppose that a much longer visit had been promised — and could not but think that if Mr. and Mrs. Morland were aware of the pleasure it was to her to have her there, they would be too generous to hasten her return.’ Catherine explained: ‘Oh! As to that, Papa and Mamma were in no hurry at all. As long as she was happy, they would always be satisfied.’
意识到如果她给自己很多时间，她可能会觉得很难提出如此不愉快的话题，她抓住了突然与埃莉诺独处的第一个机会，并且埃莉诺正在谈论一些非常不同的事情，很快就开始履行她离开的义务。埃莉诺看了看，表示自己非常担心。她“希望能在更长的时间内享受到她的陪伴——被误导了（也许是出于她的愿望），她以为已经承诺了更长的访问时间——并且不得不想，如果莫兰先生和夫人凯瑟琳解释说：“哦！对此，爸爸妈妈一点也不着急。只要她幸福，他们就心满意足了。”

‘Then why, might she ask, in such a hurry herself to leave them?’
“那她可能会问，为什么自己这么急着离开他们呢？”

‘Oh! Because she had been there so long.’
'哦！因为她已经在那里呆了太久了。

‘Nay, if you can use such a word, I can urge you no farther. If you think it long — ‘
‘不，如果你能用这样的词，我就不能再催促你了。如果你觉得很长——‘

‘Oh! No, I do not indeed. For my own pleasure, I could stay with you as long again.’ And it was directly settled that, till she had, her leaving them was not even to be thought of. In having this cause of uneasiness so pleasantly removed, the force of the other was likewise weakened. The kindness, the earnestness of Eleanor’s manner in pressing her to stay, and Henry’s gratified look on being told that her stay was determined, were such sweet proofs of her importance with them, as left her only just so much solicitude as the human mind can never do comfortably without. She did — almost always — believe that Henry loved her, and quite always that his father and sister loved and even wished her to belong to them; and believing so far, her doubts and anxieties were merely sportive irritations.
'哦！不，我确实不知道。为了我自己的高兴，我可以再和你呆在一起这么久。”而且直接决定了，在她这样做之前，她甚至都不会考虑离开他们。当这个令人不安的原因如此愉快地消除后，另一个原因的力量也同样被削弱了。埃莉诺催促她留下来的善意和诚挚的态度，以及亨利在得知她决定留下来时的满意表情，这些都证明了她对他们的重要性，只给她留下了人类心灵所能给予的尽可能多的关心。没有的话永远不会舒服。她确实——几乎总是——相信亨利爱她，而且他的父亲和妹妹也总是爱她，甚至希望她属于他们。到目前为止，她相信，她的怀疑和焦虑只是出于嬉戏的刺激。

Henry was not able to obey his father’s injunction of remaining wholly at Northanger in attendance on the ladies, during his absence in London, the engagements of his curate at Woodston obliging him to leave them on Saturday for a couple of nights. His loss was not now what it had been while the general was at home; it lessened their gaiety, but did not ruin their comfort; and the two girls agreeing in occupation, and improving in intimacy, found themselves so well sufficient for the time to themselves, that it was eleven o’clock, rather a late hour at the abbey, before they quitted the supper-room on the day of Henry’s departure. They had just reached the head of the stairs when it seemed, as far as the thickness of the walls would allow them to judge, that a carriage was driving up to the door, and the next moment confirmed the idea by the loud noise of the house-bell. After the first perturbation of surprise had passed away, in a ‘Good heaven! What can be the matter?’ it was quickly decided by Eleanor to be her eldest brother, whose arrival was often as sudden, if not quite so unseasonable, and accordingly she hurried down to welcome him.
亨利无法遵守父亲的指示，在他不在伦敦期间，完全留在诺桑觉寺照顾女士们，因为他在伍德斯顿的牧师有事，迫使他在周六离开她们几个晚上。现在，他的损失已不再是将军在家时的损失了。这减少了他们的欢乐，但并没有破坏他们的舒适感。两个女孩在工作上达成一致，关系也越来越亲密，她们发现自己有足够的时间独处，以至于那天她们离开晚餐室之前，已经是十一点了，在修道院里已经很晚了。亨利的离开。他们刚走到楼梯口，从墙壁的厚度来看，似乎有一辆马车正驶向门口，下一刻，马车的巨响证实了这个想法。门铃。当第一次惊讶的不安过去后，“天哪！”埃莉诺很快就决定是她的大哥，他的到来常常是突然的，甚至不太不合时宜，因此她赶紧下来迎接他。

Catherine walked on to her chamber, making up her mind as well as she could, to a further acquaintance with Captain Tilney, and comforting herself under the unpleasant impression his conduct had given her, and the persuasion of his being by far too fine a gentleman to approve of her, that at least they should not meet under such circumstances as would make their meeting materially painful. She trusted he would never speak of Miss Thorpe; and indeed, as he must by this time be ashamed of the part he had acted, there could be no danger of it; and as long as all mention of Bath scenes were avoided, she thought she could behave to him very civilly. In such considerations time passed away, and it was certainly in his favour that Eleanor should be so glad to see him, and have so much to say, for half an hour was almost gone since his arrival, and Eleanor did not come up.
凯瑟琳走进她的房间，尽可能地下定决心，进一步认识蒂尔尼船长，并安慰自己，因为他的行为给她带来了不愉快的印象，并说服了他是一位过于优秀的绅士。同意她的意见，至少他们不应该在这样的情况下见面，以免他们的会面带来物质上的痛苦。她相信他永远不会谈论索普小姐。事实上，此时他一定会为自己的所作所为感到羞愧，所以不可能有这样的危险。只要避免提及巴斯的场景，她认为她可以对他表现得非常有礼貌。就这样考虑着，时间过去了，埃莉诺见到他如此高兴，有那么多话要说，这对他来说无疑是有利的，因为他到达已经快半个小时了，埃莉诺还没有出现。

At that moment Catherine thought she heard her step in the gallery, and listened for its continuance; but all was silent. Scarcely, however, had she convicted her fancy of error, when the noise of something moving close to her door made her start; it seemed as if someone was touching the very doorway — and in another moment a slight motion of the lock proved that some hand must be on it. She trembled a little at the idea of anyone’s approaching so cautiously; but resolving not to be again overcome by trivial appearances of alarm, or misled by a raised imagination, she stepped quietly forward, and opened the door. Eleanor, and only Eleanor, stood there. Catherine’s spirits, however, were tranquillized but for an instant, for Eleanor’s cheeks were pale, and her manner greatly agitated. Though evidently intending to come in, it seemed an effort to enter the room, and a still greater to speak when there. Catherine, supposing some uneasiness on Captain Tilney’s account, could only express her concern by silent attention, obliged her to be seated, rubbed her temples with lavender-water, and hung over her with affectionate solicitude. ‘My dear Catherine, you must not — you must not indeed — ‘ were Eleanor’s first connected words. ‘I am quite well. This kindness distracts me — I cannot bear it — I come to you on such an errand!’
就在那一刻，凯瑟琳以为她听到了走廊里的脚步声，并听着脚步声是否还在继续。但一切都寂静无声。然而，她刚确认自己的幻想是错误的，门附近有什么东西移动的声音让她吓了一跳；似乎有人正在触摸门口——过了一会儿，门锁轻轻一动，证明一定有人在按门。一想到有人如此小心翼翼地靠近，她就有点颤抖。但她决定不再被琐碎的惊慌所压倒，也不再被浮夸的想象所误导，于是她悄悄地向前走去，打开了门。埃莉诺，只有埃莉诺站在那里。然而，凯瑟琳的精神却平静了片刻，因为埃莉诺脸色苍白，神情极为激动。虽然显然是想进来，但进入房间似乎很费力，而且在那里说话就更困难了。凯瑟琳以为蒂尔尼上尉的事情有些不安，只能默默关注来表达她的关心，强迫她坐下，用薰衣草水揉搓她的太阳穴，并深情地关心着她。 “我亲爱的凯瑟琳，你不可以——你确实不可以——”这是埃莉诺的第一句话。 ‘我很好。这种善意让我分心——我无法忍受——我来找你就是为了这样的差事！

‘Errand! To me!’
‘差事！大部头书！'

‘How shall I tell you! Oh! How shall I tell you!’
‘我该怎么告诉你呢！哦！我该怎么告诉你呢！

A new idea now darted into Catherine’s mind, and turning as pale as her friend, she exclaimed, ‘‘Tis a messenger from Woodston!’
凯瑟琳的脑海中突然闪现出一个新的想法，她的脸色变得像她的朋友一样苍白，她喊道：“这是来自伍德斯顿的信使！”

‘You are mistaken, indeed,’ returned Eleanor, looking at her most compassionately; ‘it is no one from Woodston. It is my father himself.’ Her voice faltered, and her eyes were turned to the ground as she mentioned his name. His unlooked-for return was enough in itself to make Catherine’s heart sink, and for a few moments she hardly supposed there were anything worse to be told. She said nothing; and Eleanor, endeavouring to collect herself and speak with firmness, but with eyes still cast down, soon went on. ‘You are too good, I am sure, to think the worse of me for the part I am obliged to perform. I am indeed a most unwilling messenger. After what has so lately passed, so lately been settled between us — how joyfully, how thankfully on my side! — as to your continuing here as I hoped for many, many weeks longer, how can I tell you that your kindness is not to be accepted — and that the happiness your company has hitherto given us is to be repaid by — But I must not trust myself with words. My dear Catherine, we are to part. My father has recollected an engagement that takes our whole family away on Monday. We are going to Lord Longtown’s, near Hereford, for a fortnight. Explanation and apology are equally impossible. I cannot attempt either.’
“你确实错了，”埃莉诺回答道，充满同情地看着她。 “这不是伍德斯顿的人。” “是我父亲本人。”她的声音颤抖着，当她提到他的名字时，她的眼睛转向地面。他的意外回归本身就足以让凯瑟琳的心沉下去，有那么一会儿，她几乎不认为还有什么更糟糕的事情可说。她什么也没说；埃莉诺努力镇定下来，语气坚定，但眼神仍然低垂，很快就继续说道。 “我相信，你太优秀了，不会因为我必须扮演的角色而对我产生更坏的看法。我确实是一个最不情愿的使者。在我们之间刚刚过去、刚刚解决的事情之后——我这一边是多么高兴、多么感激啊！ ——至于你继续留在这里，正如我希望的那样，再待很多很多个星期，我怎么能告诉你，你的善意是不被接受的——而你的公司迄今为止给我们带来的幸福是要回报的——但我绝不能相信自己的话。亲爱的凯瑟琳，我们要分手了。我父亲记得周一有一次订婚，我们全家都离开了。我们要去赫里福德附近的朗敦勋爵家住两周。解释和道歉同样是不可能的。我也无法尝试。

‘My dear Eleanor,’ cried Catherine, suppressing her feelings as well as she could, ‘do not be so distressed. A second engagement must give way to a first. I am very, very sorry we are to part — so soon, and so suddenly too; but I am not offended, indeed I am not. I can finish my visit here, you know, at any time; or I hope you will come to me. Can you, when you return from this lord’s, come to Fullerton?’
“我亲爱的埃莉诺，”凯瑟琳大声喊道，尽可能地压抑着自己的感情，“别这么难过。第二次交往必须让位于第一次交往。我非常非常遗憾我们要分开了——这么快，也这么突然；但我并没有被冒犯，确实没有。你知道，我可以随时结束对这里的访问；或者我希望你能来找我。当你从本勋爵那里回来时，你能来富勒顿吗？

‘It will not be in my power, Catherine.’
“这不在我的权力范围内，凯瑟琳。”

‘Come when you can, then.’
“那你可以的话就来吧。”

Eleanor made no answer; and Catherine’s thoughts recurring to something more directly interesting, she added, thinking aloud, ‘Monday — so soon as Monday; and you all go. Well, I am certain of — I shall be able to take leave, however. I need not go till just before you do, you know. Do not be distressed, Eleanor, I can go on Monday very well. My father and mother’s having no notice of it is of very little consequence. The general will send a servant with me, I dare say, half the way — and then I shall soon be at Salisbury, and then I am only nine miles from home.’
埃莉诺没有回答。凯瑟琳的思绪又回到了一些更直接有趣的事情上，她大声思考着，补充道，“周一——就周一吧；快周一吧！”你们都走吧。好吧，我确信——不过，我可以请假。我不需要在你之前走，你知道。别担心，埃莉诺，周一我可以很好地去。我的父母没有注意到这件事并没有什么影响。我敢说，将军会派一名仆人陪我走半程——然后我很快就会到达索尔兹伯里，然后我离家只有九英里了。

‘Ah, Catherine! Were it settled so, it would be somewhat less intolerable, though in such common attentions you would have received but half what you ought. But — how can I tell you? — tomorrow morning is fixed for your leaving us, and not even the hour is left to your choice; the very carriage is ordered, and will be here at seven o’clock, and no servant will be offered you.’
啊，凯瑟琳！如果事情就这么解决了，那就不会那么令人难以忍受了，尽管在如此普遍的关注中，你得到的只是你应该得到的一半。但是——我该怎么告诉你呢？ ——明天早上你就离开我们了，连时间都没有你选择的余地；马车已经订好了，七点钟就到了，不会为您提供仆人的。”

Catherine sat down, breathless and speechless. ‘I could hardly believe my senses, when I heard it; and no displeasure, no resentment that you can feel at this moment, however justly great, can be more than I myself — but I must not talk of what I felt. Oh! That I could suggest anything in extenuation! Good God! What will your father and mother say! After courting you from the protection of real friends to this — almost double distance from your home, to have you driven out of the house, without the considerations even of decent civility! Dear, dear Catherine, in being the bearer of such a message, I seem guilty myself of all its insult; yet, I trust you will acquit me, for you must have been long enough in this house to see that I am but a nominal mistress of it, that my real power is nothing.’
凯瑟琳坐下来，气喘吁吁，说不出话来。 “当我听到这个消息时，我简直不敢相信自己的感觉；此时此刻，你所感受到的任何不满、怨恨，无论多么强烈，都不能超过我自己——但我绝不能谈论我的感受。哦！我可以提出任何可以减轻罪责的建议！天哪！你爸爸妈妈会说什么！从真正的朋友的保护向你求爱之后，到了离你家几乎两倍的距离，把你赶出家门，甚至不考虑体面的礼貌！亲爱的，亲爱的凯瑟琳，作为这样一个信息的传递者，我似乎对它的所有侮辱感到内疚；然而，我相信你会释放我无罪的，因为你在这所房子里呆了足够长的时间，一定会看到我只是它名义上的情妇，我的真正权力是微不足道的。

‘Have I offended the general?’ said Catherine in a faltering voice.
“我得罪将军了吗？”凯瑟琳结结巴巴地说。

‘Alas! For my feelings as a daughter, all that I know, all that I answer for, is that you can have given him no just cause of offence. He certainly is greatly, very greatly discomposed; I have seldom seen him more so. His temper is not happy, and something has now occurred to ruffle it in an uncommon degree; some disappointment, some vexation, which just at this moment seems important, but which I can hardly suppose you to have any concern in, for how is it possible?’
'唉！就我作为女儿的感受而言，我所知道的一切，我所负责的一切，就是你不能给他正当的冒犯理由。他确实非常非常不安。我很少见到他如此。他的脾气很不高兴，而现在发生了一些事情，使他的脾气达到了一种不寻常的程度。一些失望，一些烦恼，此时此刻似乎很重要，但我很难想象你对此有任何关心，因为这怎么可能呢？

It was with pain that Catherine could speak at all; and it was only for Eleanor’s sake that she attempted it. ‘I am sure,’ said she, ‘I am very sorry if I have offended him. It was the last thing I would willingly have done. But do not be unhappy, Eleanor. An engagement, you know, must be kept. I am only sorry it was not recollected sooner, that I might have written home. But it is of very little consequence.’
凯瑟琳在痛苦中才能开口说话。她只是为了埃莉诺才这么做。 “我确信，”她说，“如果我冒犯了他，我很抱歉。”这是我最不愿意做的事情。但请不要不高兴，埃莉诺。你知道，订婚必须遵守。我只是很遗憾没有早点想起这件事，否则我可能会写信回家。但这影响很小。

‘I hope, I earnestly hope, that to your real safety it will be of none; but to everything else it is of the greatest consequence: to comfort, appearance, propriety, to your family, to the world. Were your friends, the Allens, still in Bath, you might go to them with comparative ease; a few hours would take you there; but a journey of seventy miles, to be taken post by you, at your age, alone, unattended!’
“我希望，我真诚地希望，这对你的真正安全没有任何影响；但对于其他一切来说，它却具有最重要的意义：舒适、外表、礼仪、家庭、世界。如果你的朋友艾伦一家还在巴斯，你可能会相对轻松地去拜访他们；几个小时就能到达那里；但七十英里的旅程，是由你在你这个年纪，独自一人，无人看管的情况下完成的！

‘Oh, the journey is nothing. Do not think about that. And if we are to part, a few hours sooner or later, you know, makes no difference. I can be ready by seven. Let me be called in time.’ Eleanor saw that she wished to be alone; and believing it better for each that they should avoid any further conversation, now left her with, ‘I shall see you in the morning.’
‘哦，旅途没什么。不要想这个。如果我们要分开，早几个小时或晚几个小时，你知道，没有什么区别。我可以在七点之前准备好。埃莉诺看出她想一个人呆着，于是她就过来了。她认为最好避免再进行任何进一步的谈话，现在就留给她：“我明天早上见。”

Catherine’s swelling heart needed relief. In Eleanor’s presence friendship and pride had equally restrained her tears, but no sooner was she gone than they burst forth in torrents. Turned from the house, and in such a way! Without any reason that could justify, any apology that could atone for the abruptness, the rudeness, nay, the insolence of it. Henry at a distance — not able even to bid him farewell. Every hope, every expectation from him suspended, at least, and who could say how long? Who could say when they might meet again? And all this by such a man as General Tilney, so polite, so well bred, and heretofore so particularly fond of her! It was as incomprehensible as it was mortifying and grievous. From what it could arise, and where it would end, were considerations of equal perplexity and alarm. The manner in which it was done so grossly uncivil, hurrying her away without any reference to her own convenience, or allowing her even the appearance of choice as to the time or mode of her travelling; of two days, the earliest fixed on, and of that almost the earliest hour, as if resolved to have her gone before he was stirring in the morning, that he might not be obliged even to see her. What could all this mean but an intentional affront? By some means or other she must have had the misfortune to offend him. Eleanor had wished to spare her from so painful a notion, but Catherine could not believe it possible that any injury or any misfortune could provoke such ill will against a person not connected, or, at least, not supposed to be connected with it.
凯瑟琳肿胀的心需要缓解。在埃莉诺面前，友谊和骄傲同样抑制了她的泪水，但她一走，泪水就汹涌而出。从屋子里转身出来，而且是这样的！没有任何理由可以证明其合理性，也没有任何道歉可以弥补它的唐突、粗鲁，不，是无礼。亨利在远处——甚至无法向他告别。至少，他的每一个希望、每一个期望都被搁置了，谁能说要持续多久呢？谁能说得清他们什么时候才能再次见面呢？而这一切都是由蒂尔尼将军这样一个如此有礼貌、如此有教养、迄今为止还特别喜欢她的人完成的！这是令人难以理解的，也是令人羞愧和悲伤的。从它可能出现的地方到它结束的地方，都引起了同样的困惑和警惕。这样做的方式非常不文明，不考虑她自己的方便就催促她离开，甚至允许她选择旅行的时间或方式；两天的时间，最早的时间是固定的，几乎是最早的一个小时，仿佛决心在早上起床之前让她走，这样他就不必去看她了。这一切除了故意冒犯之外还能意味着什么呢？她一定是不幸地以某种方式得罪了他。埃莉诺本来希望让她摆脱如此痛苦的想法，但凯瑟琳无法相信任何伤害或任何不幸都会激起对一个没有关系的人的如此恶意，或者至少不应该与之有关系。

Heavily passed the night. Sleep, or repose that deserved the name of sleep, was out of the question. That room, in which her disturbed imagination had tormented her on her first arrival, was again the scene of agitated spirits and unquiet slumbers. Yet how different now the source of her inquietude from what it had been then — how mournfully superior in reality and substance! Her anxiety had foundation in fact, her fears in probability; and with a mind so occupied in the contemplation of actual and natural evil, the solitude of her situation, the darkness of her chamber, the antiquity of the building, were felt and considered without the smallest emotion; and though the wind was high, and often produced strange and sudden noises throughout the house, she heard it all as she lay awake, hour after hour, without curiosity or terror.
这一夜过得很充实。睡眠，或者名副其实的休息，是不可能的。那个房间，她第一次到达时就曾在这个房间里被扰乱的想象力折磨着，现在又是一个精神烦躁、睡眠不安的场景。然而，现在她不安的根源与那时是多么不同——在现实和实质上是多么可悲的优越！她的焦虑实际上是有根据的，她的恐惧则是有可能的。当她全神贯注于对现实和自然邪恶的沉思时，她的处境的孤独，她房间的黑暗，建筑物的古老，都被毫无感情地感受到和考虑。虽然风很大，经常在整个房子里发出奇怪的、突然的噪音，但她一小时又一小时地醒着地躺在床上，毫无好奇或恐惧地听到了这一切。

Soon after six Eleanor entered her room, eager to show attention or give assistance where it was possible; but very little remained to be done. Catherine had not loitered; she was almost dressed, and her packing almost finished. The possibility of some conciliatory message from the general occurred to her as his daughter appeared. What so natural, as that anger should pass away and repentance succeed it? And she only wanted to know how far, after what had passed, an apology might properly be received by her. But the knowledge would have been useless here; it was not called for; neither clemency nor dignity was put to the trial — Eleanor brought no message. Very little passed between them on meeting; each found her greatest safety in silence, and few and trivial were the sentences exchanged while they remained upstairs, Catherine in busy agitation completing her dress, and Eleanor with more goodwill than experience intent upon filling the trunk. When everything was done they left the room, Catherine lingering only half a minute behind her friend to throw a parting glance on every well-known, cherished object, and went down to the breakfast-parlour, where breakfast was prepared. She tried to eat, as well to save herself from the pain of being urged as to make her friend comfortable; but she had no appetite, and could not swallow many mouthfuls. The contrast between this and her last breakfast in that room gave her fresh misery, and strengthened her distaste for everything before her. It was not four and twenty hours ago since they had met there to the same repast, but in circumstances how different! With what cheerful ease, what happy, though false, security, had she then looked around her, enjoying everything present, and fearing little in future, beyond Henry’s going to Woodston for a day! Happy, happy breakfast! For Henry had been there; Henry had sat by her and helped her. These reflections were long indulged undisturbed by any address from her companion, who sat as deep in thought as herself; and the appearance of the carriage was the first thing to startle and recall them to the present moment. Catherine’s colour rose at the sight of it; and the indignity with which she was treated, striking at that instant on her mind with peculiar force, made her for a short time sensible only of resentment. Eleanor seemed now impelled into resolution and speech.
六点后不久，埃莉诺进入了她的房间，渴望表现出关注或在可能的情况下提供帮助；但要做的事情已经很少了。凯瑟琳并没有闲逛。她快穿好衣服了，收拾行李也快完成了。当将军的女儿出现时，她想到将军可能会发出一些和解的信息。愤怒会过去，悔改随之而来，还有什么是那么自然的事呢？她只是想知道，在事情过去之后，她能在多大程度上接受道歉。但这些知识在这里毫无用处。没有要求；审判中既没有宽大处理，也没有尊严——埃莉诺没有带来任何信息。见面时他们之间几乎没有什么交流。每个人都在沉默中找到了最大的安全感，当他们留在楼上时，交换的句子很少而微不足道，凯瑟琳忙着整理她的衣服，埃莉诺更多的是善意而不是经验，专注于装满行李箱。当一切都完成后，他们离开了房间，凯瑟琳只在她朋友身后逗留了半分钟，向每一件熟悉的、珍贵的物品投了告别的一眼，然后去了早餐室，那里准备了早餐。她试着吃点东西，既是为了让自己免于被催促的痛苦，也是为了让她的朋友感到舒服。但她没有胃口，吞咽不了很多口。这顿早餐与她在那个房间里吃的最后一顿早餐之间的反差给她带来了新的痛苦，并加深了她对眼前一切的厌恶。自从他们在那里吃同样的饭菜以来，已经不是四小时前和二十小时前了，但情况却是多么不同啊！ 然后，她环顾四周，享受着眼前的一切，除了亨利要去伍德斯顿呆一天之外，对未来几乎没有什么恐惧！早餐快乐，幸福！因为亨利当时就在那里；亨利坐在她身边帮助她。这些沉思很长一段时间都没有受到她同伴的任何讲话的干扰，她的同伴和她一样坐在那儿陷入沉思。而马车的出现，最先让他们惊醒，回想起了当下。凯瑟琳一看到它，脸色就红了。她受到的侮辱在那一瞬间以一种特殊的力量震撼了她的心灵，使她在短时间内只感到怨恨。埃莉诺现在似乎被迫下定决心并发表讲话。

‘You must write to me, Catherine,’ she cried; ‘you must let me hear from you as soon as possible. Till I know you to be safe at home, I shall not have an hour’s comfort. For one letter, at all risks, all hazards, I must entreat. Let me have the satisfaction of knowing that you are safe at Fullerton, and have found your family well, and then, till I can ask for your correspondence as I ought to do, I will not expect more. Direct to me at Lord Longtown’s, and, I must ask it, under cover to Alice.’
“你一定要给我写信，凯瑟琳，”她喊道。 ‘你必须尽快让我收到你的消息。在我知道你安全在家之前，我不会有一个小时的安慰。为了一封信，我必须不顾一切风险、一切危险地恳求。让我满意地知道你在富勒顿很安全，并且已经找到了你的家人，然后，在我能够按照我应该做的那样要求你的信件之前，我不会期望更多。直接到朗敦勋爵家找我，而且，我必须问一下，秘密去找爱丽丝。”

‘No, Eleanor, if you are not allowed to receive a letter from me, I am sure I had better not write. There can be no doubt of my getting home safe.’
“不，埃莉诺，如果你不被允许收到我的信，我确信我最好不要写信。毫无疑问我会安全回家。”

Eleanor only replied, ‘I cannot wonder at your feelings. I will not importune you. I will trust to your own kindness of heart when I am at a distance from you.’ But this, with the look of sorrow accompanying it, was enough to melt Catherine’s pride in a moment, and she instantly said, ‘Oh, Eleanor, I will write to you indeed.’
埃莉诺只是回答道：“我无法理解你的感受。”我不会强求你。当我远离你的时候，我会相信你的善良之心。”但这，伴随着悲伤的表情，足以融化凯瑟琳的骄傲，她立即说道：“哦，埃莉诺，我确实会写信给你。

There was yet another point which Miss Tilney was anxious to settle, though somewhat embarrassed in speaking of. It had occurred to her that after so long an absence from home, Catherine might not be provided with money enough for the expenses of her journey, and, upon suggesting it to her with most affectionate offers of accommodation, it proved to be exactly the case. Catherine had never thought on the subject till that moment, but, upon examining her purse, was convinced that but for this kindness of her friend, she might have been turned from the house without even the means of getting home; and the distress in which she must have been thereby involved filling the minds of both, scarcely another word was said by either during the time of their remaining together. Short, however, was that time. The carriage was soon announced to be ready; and Catherine, instantly rising, a long and affectionate embrace supplied the place of language in bidding each other adieu; and, as they entered the hall, unable to leave the house without some mention of one whose name had not yet been spoken by either, she paused a moment, and with quivering lips just made it intelligible that she left ‘her kind remembrance for her absent friend.’ But with this approach to his name ended all possibility of restraining her feelings; and, hiding her face as well as she could with her handkerchief, she darted across the hall, jumped into the chaise, and in a moment was driven from the door.
蒂尔尼小姐还有一点急于解决，尽管说起来有些尴尬。她突然想到，离开家这么久，凯瑟琳可能没有足够的钱来支付她的旅途费用，当她向她提出最深情的住宿建议时，事实证明事实确实如此。 。凯瑟琳直到那一刻才考虑过这个问题，但是，在检查了她的钱包后，她确信，如果没有她朋友的善意，她可能会被赶出家门，甚至无法回家；但是，在这之前，凯瑟琳从未想过这个问题。两人的心里都充满了她所陷入的痛苦，在他们在一起的这段时间里，两人几乎没有再说一句话。然而，那段时间很短暂。很快就有人宣布马车准备好了。凯瑟琳立刻站了起来，一个漫长而深情的拥抱取代了彼此告别的语言。当他们进入大厅时，在离开房子时，她停顿了一会儿，用颤抖的嘴唇让人明白，她留下了“对她的善意怀念”。 “缺席的朋友。”但是，这样称呼他的名字，就结束了她抑制感情的所有可能性；她用手帕尽可能地遮住脸，冲过大厅，跳上躺椅，一会儿就被赶出了门。

Chapter 29
第29章

Catherine was too wretched to be fearful. The journey in itself had no terrors for her; and she began it without either dreading its length or feeling its solitariness. Leaning back in one comer of the carriage, in a violent burst of tears, she was conveyed some miles beyond the walls of the abbey before she raised her head; and the highest point of ground within the park was almost closed from her view before she was capable of turning her eyes towards it. Unfortunately, the road she now travelled was the same which only ten days ago she had so happily passed along in going to and from Woodston; and, for fourteen miles, every bitter feeling was rendered more severe by the review of objects on which she had first looked under impressions so different. Every mile, as it brought her nearer Woodston, added to her sufferings, and when within the distance of five, she passed the turning which led to it, and thought of Henry, so near, yet so unconscious, her grief and agitation were excessive.
凯瑟琳太可怜了，根本不值得害怕。这段旅程本身并没有让她感到恐惧。她开始写这本书，既不畏惧它的长度，也不感到它的孤独。她靠在马车的一角，泪流满面，在她抬起头之前，她被送到了修道院围墙外几英里之外。在她能够将目光转向公园内的最高点之前，她的视线几乎已经被遮住了。不幸的是，她现在走的路还是十天前她往返伍德斯顿时还愉快地走过的路；在十四英里的路程中，回顾那些她第一次看到的、印象如此不同的物体，每一种痛苦的感觉都变得更加严重。每一英里，当她离伍德斯顿越来越近时，都增加了她的痛苦，当距离五英里时，她通过了通向它的转弯，想到亨利，如此接近，但如此无意识，她的悲伤和激动是过度的。

The day which she had spent at that place had been one of the happiest of her life. It was there, it was on that day, that the general had made use of such expressions with regard to Henry and herself, had so spoken and so looked as to give her the most positive conviction of his actually wishing their marriage. Yes, only ten days ago had he elated her by his pointed regard — had he even confused her by his too significant reference! And now — what had she done, or what had she omitted to do, to merit such a change?
她在那儿度过的一天是她一生中最快乐的一天。正是在那里，就在那一天，将军对亨利和她自己使用了这样的表达方式，他的言辞和表情都让她确信他确实希望他们结婚。是的，就在十天前，他还因为他尖锐的注视而使她高兴——他甚至因为他过于重要的提及而使她困惑！而现在——她做了什么，或者她忽略了什么，才值得做出这样的改变？

The only offence against him of which she could accuse herself had been such as was scarcely possible to reach his knowledge. Henry and her own heart only were privy to the shocking suspicions which she had so idly entertained; and equally safe did she believe her secret with each. Designedly, at least, Henry could not have betrayed her. If, indeed, by any strange mischance his father should have gained intelligence of what she had dared to think and look for, of her causeless fancies and injurious examinations, she could not wonder at any degree of his indignation. If aware of her having viewed him as a murderer, she could not wonder at his even turning her from his house. But a justification so full of torture to herself, she trusted, would not be in his power.
她唯一可以指责自己对他的冒犯是他几乎不可能知道的。只有亨利和她自己的心才知道她如此漫不经心地产生的令人震惊的怀疑。她对每个人都相信自己的秘密，同样安全。至少，亨利故意不能背叛她。事实上，如果他的父亲因任何奇怪的不幸而获知了她敢于思考和寻找的东西，了解了她无缘无故的幻想和有害的检查，她不会对他的愤怒有任何程度的惊讶。如果她意识到她把他视为杀人犯，她就不会奇怪他甚至将她赶出家门。但她相信，这种对自己充满折磨的辩护是他无能为力的。

Anxious as were all her conjectures on this point, it was not, however, the one on which she dwelt most. There was a thought yet nearer, a more prevailing, more impetuous concern. How Henry would think, and feel, and look, when he returned on the morrow to Northanger and heard of her being gone, was a question of force and interest to rise over every other, to be never ceasing, alternately irritating and soothing; it sometimes suggested the dread of his calm acquiescence, and at others was answered by the sweetest confidence in his regret and resentment. To the general, of course, he would not dare to speak; but to Eleanor — what might he not say to Eleanor about her?
尽管她对这一点的所有猜测都很焦虑，但这并不是她最关心的一个。还有一种更近的想法，一种更普遍、更冲动的担忧。当亨利第二天回到诺桑觉并听说她走了时，他会怎么想、怎么感觉、怎么看，这是一个超越其他一切的力量和兴趣的问题，永远不会停止，时而激怒，时而舒缓；有时，这表明他对他平静默许的恐惧，而另一些时候，他的回答则是对他的遗憾和怨恨最甜蜜的信心。对将军，他当然不敢说话；对将军，他当然不敢说话。但对埃莉诺——关于她，他有什么不能对埃莉诺说的呢？

In this unceasing recurrence of doubts and inquiries, on any one article of which her mind was incapable of more than momentary repose, the hours passed away, and her journey advanced much faster than she looked for. The pressing anxieties of thought, which prevented her from noticing anything before her, when once beyond the neighbourhood of Woodston, saved her at the same time from watching her progress; and though no object on the road could engage a moment’s attention, she found no stage of it tedious. From this, she was preserved too by another cause, by feeling no eagerness for her journey’s conclusion; for to return in such a manner to Fullerton was almost to destroy the pleasure of a meeting with those she loved best, even after an absence such as hers — an eleven weeks’ absence. What had she to say that would not humble herself and pain her family, that would not increase her own grief by the confession of it, extend an useless resentment, and perhaps involve the innocent with the guilty in undistinguishing ill will? She could never do justice to Henry and Eleanor’s merit; she felt it too strongly for expression; and should a dislike be taken against them, should they be thought of unfavourably, on their father’s account, it would cut her to the heart.
在这种不断出现的怀疑和询问中，对任何一篇文章，她的头脑都只能暂时休息，几个小时过去了，她的旅程进展得比她想象的要快得多。当她走出伍德斯顿附近时，思想上的紧迫焦虑使她无法注意到眼前的任何事物，同时也使她无法观察自己的进展；虽然路上没有什么东西能吸引她片刻的注意力，但她并不觉得这一切是乏味的。从这一点来看，她还因为另一个原因而得以保存，因为她并不急于结束旅程。因为以这种方式返回富勒顿几乎毁掉了与她最爱的人会面的乐趣，即使是在像她这样的缺席之后——缺席了十一周。她该说些什么才不会让自己谦卑，让家人痛苦，不会因承认这一点而增加自己的悲伤，不会产生无用的怨恨，也许还会把无辜者与有罪者带入不加区分的恶意中呢？她永远无法公正地评价亨利和埃莉诺的优点。她的感觉太强烈了，无法表达。如果他们因为父亲的缘故而被人厌恶，或者对他们产生不利的看法，她就会伤心不已。

With these feelings, she rather dreaded than sought for the first view of that well-known spire which would announce her within twenty miles of home. Salisbury she had known to be her point on leaving Northanger; but after the first stage she had been indebted to the post-masters for the names of the places which were then to conduct her to it; so great had been her ignorance of her route. She met with nothing, however, to distress or frighten her. Her youth, civil manners, and liberal pay procured her all the attention that a traveller like herself could require; and stopping only to change horses, she travelled on for about eleven hours without accident or alarm, and between six and seven o’clock in the evening found herself entering Fullerton.
带着这些感觉，她宁愿害怕，也不愿意第一眼看到那座著名的尖塔，因为它会在离家二十英里的地方宣告她的到来。她知道索尔兹伯里是她离开诺桑觉寺的目的。但在第一阶段之后，她就得感谢邮政局长，告诉她当时要带她去的地点的名称。她对自己的路线一无所知。然而，她没有遇到任何让她痛苦或害怕的事情。她的年轻、彬彬有礼的举止和丰厚的报酬为她赢得了像她这样的旅行者可能需要的所有关注。她只停下来换马，继续行驶了大约十一个小时，没有发生任何事故，也没有惊慌，晚上六点到七点之间，她发现自己进入了富勒顿。

A heroine returning, at the close of her career, to her native village, in all the triumph of recovered reputation, and all the dignity of a countess, with a long train of noble relations in their several phaetons, and three waiting-maids in a travelling chaise and four, behind her, is an event on which the pen of the contriver may well delight to dwell; it gives credit to every conclusion, and the author must share in the glory she so liberally bestows. But my affair is widely different; I bring back my heroine to her home in solitude and disgrace; and no sweet elation of spirits can lead me into minuteness. A heroine in a hack post-chaise is such a blow upon sentiment, as no attempt at grandeur or pathos can withstand. Swiftly therefore shall her post-boy drive through the village, amid the gaze of Sunday groups, and speedy shall be her descent from it.
一位女主人公在她的职业生涯结束时回到了她的家乡，带着恢复名声的胜利和伯爵夫人的所有尊严，带着一长串贵族亲戚坐在他们的几辆四轮马车里，还有三个侍女在她身后有一辆旅行躺椅和四人，这是一个设计者很乐意用笔来描写的事件；它给予每一个结论以可信度，作者必须分享她如此慷慨地赋予的荣耀。但我的事情却截然不同。我带着我的女主人公带着孤独和耻辱回到了她的家；任何甜蜜的精神愉悦都不能引导我变得渺小。坐在黑客马车上的女主人公对情感的打击是巨大的，任何宏伟或悲伤的尝试都无法抵挡。因此，她的邮递员将在周日人群的注视下迅速穿过村庄，然后她将迅速离开村庄。

But, whatever might be the distress of Catherine’s mind, as she thus advanced towards the parsonage, and whatever the humiliation of her biographer in relating it, she was preparing enjoyment of no everyday nature for those to whom she went; first, in the appearance of her carriage — and secondly, in herself. The chaise of a traveller being a rare sight in Fullerton, the whole family were immediately at the window; and to have it stop at the sweep-gate was a pleasure to brighten every eye and occupy every fancy — a pleasure quite unlooked for by all but the two youngest children, a boy and girl of six and four years old, who expected a brother or sister in every carriage. Happy the glance that first distinguished Catherine! Happy the voice that proclaimed the discovery! But whether such happiness were the lawful property of George or Harriet could never be exactly understood.
但是，无论凯瑟琳在走向牧师住宅时心里有多么痛苦，也无论她的传记作者在描述这件事时受到怎样的羞辱，她都在为她所到之处的人准备一种非日常性质的享受；因为她是在为她所去的人准备一种非日常性质的享受。首先是她的仪态，其次是她本人。旅行者的躺椅在富勒顿很少见，全家人立刻就聚集在窗前。让它停在扫地门前是一种让每个人眼睛都亮了、占据每个幻想的快乐——除了两个最小的孩子之外，所有人都没有想到这种快乐，一个六岁和一个四岁的男孩和女孩，他们期待着一个兄弟或每节车厢的姐妹。很高兴第一眼看到凯瑟琳！宣布这一发现的声音令人高兴！但这种幸福是否是乔治或哈丽特的合法财产却永远无法被准确地理解。

Her father, mother, Sarah, George, and Harriet, all assembled at the door to welcome her with affectionate eagerness, was a sight to awaken the best feelings of Catherine’s heart; and in the embrace of each, as she stepped from the carriage, she found herself soothed beyond anything that she had believed possible. So surrounded, so caressed, she was even happy! In the joyfulness of family love everything for a short time was subdued, and the pleasure of seeing her, leaving them at first little leisure for calm curiosity, they were all seated round the tea-table, which Mrs. Morland had hurried for the comfort of the poor traveller, whose pale and jaded looks soon caught her notice, before any inquiry so direct as to demand a positive answer was addressed to her.
她的父亲、母亲、莎拉、乔治和哈丽雅特都聚集在门口，热情地欢迎她，这一景象唤醒了凯瑟琳心中最美好的感情；当她走下马车时，在每个人的拥抱中，她发现自己得到了前所未有的安慰。如此的包围，如此的爱抚，她甚至是幸福的！在家庭之爱的欢乐中，一切都在短时间内得到了抑制，看到她的喜悦，让他们一开始没有什么闲暇去平静的好奇心，他们都坐在茶桌旁，莫兰太太匆忙地让茶桌变得舒适。那位可怜的旅行者的脸色苍白而疲惫，很快就引起了她的注意，然后才向她提出了任何直接要求肯定答复的询问。

Reluctantly, and with much hesitation, did she then begin what might perhaps, at the end of half an hour, be termed, by the courtesy of her hearers, an explanation; but scarcely, within that time, could they at all discover the cause, or collect the particulars, of her sudden return. They were far from being an irritable race; far from any quickness in catching, or bitterness in resenting, affronts: but here, when the whole was unfolded, was an insult not to be overlooked, nor, for the first half hour, to be easily pardoned. Without suffering any romantic alarm, in the consideration of their daughter’s long and lonely journey, Mr. and Mrs. Morland could not but feel that it might have been productive of much unpleasantness to her; that it was what they could never have voluntarily suffered; and that, in forcing her on such a measure, General Tilney had acted neither honourably nor feelingly — neither as a gentleman nor as a parent. Why he had done it, what could have provoked him to such a breach of hospitality, and so suddenly turned all his partial regard for their daughter into actual ill will, was a matter which they were at least as far from divining as Catherine herself; but it did not oppress them by any means so long; and, after a due course of useless conjecture, that ‘it was a strange business, and that he must be a very strange man,’ grew enough for all their indignation and wonder; though Sarah indeed still indulged in the sweets of incomprehensibility, exclaiming and conjecturing with youthful ardour. ‘My dear, you give yourself a great deal of needless trouble,’ said her mother at last; ‘depend upon it, it is something not at all worth understanding.’
半小时后，她很不情愿地、犹豫不决地开始了解释，按照听众的礼貌，也许可以称之为解释；但在那段时间里，他们几乎无法查明她突然回来的原因，或收集到细节。他们绝不是一个易怒的种族；远没有任何迅速捕捉或怨恨侮辱的行为：但是，当整个事件展开时，这是一种不容忽视的侮辱，而且在前半小时内也不能轻易原谅。没有遭受任何浪漫的惊慌，考虑到他们女儿漫长而孤独的旅程，莫兰先生和夫人不禁感到这可能会给她带来很多不愉快；这是他们永远不可能自愿承受的；蒂尔尼将军强迫她采取这样的措施，既不诚实也不感情用事——既不作为一个绅士，也不作为一个家长。他为什么要这样做，是什么激怒了他如此不礼貌，突然间把他对女儿的所有偏爱变成了真正的恶意，这是他们至少和凯瑟琳本人一样无法预测的问题；但它并没有以任何方式压迫他们那么久。经过一段毫无用处的猜测之后，“这是一件奇怪的事情，他一定是一个非常奇怪的人”，这足以让他们感到愤怒和惊讶；尽管莎拉确实还沉浸在难以理解的甜蜜之中，带着青春的热情感叹着、猜测着。 “亲爱的，你给自己惹了很多不必要的麻烦，”她母亲最后说道。 “靠吧，这根本不值得理解。”

‘I can allow for his wishing Catherine away, when he recollected this engagement,’ said Sarah, ‘but why not do it civilly?’
“当他想起这次订婚时，我可以允许他希望凯瑟琳离开，”莎拉说，“但为什么不礼貌地这样做呢？”

‘I am sorry for the young people,’ returned Mrs. Morland; ‘they must have a sad time of it; but as for anything else, it is no matter now; Catherine is safe at home, and our comfort does not depend upon General Tilney.’ Catherine sighed. ‘Well,’ continued her philosophic mother, ‘I am glad I did not know of your journey at the time; but now it is all over, perhaps there is no great harm done. It is always good for young people to be put upon exerting themselves; and you know, my dear Catherine, you always were a sad little scatter-brained creature; but now you must have been forced to have your wits about you, with so much changing of chaises and so forth; and I hope it will appear that you have not left anything behind you in any of the pockets.’
“我为年轻人感到难过，”莫兰太太回答道。 “他们一定度过了一段悲伤的时光；至于其他的事，现在已经无所谓了。凯瑟琳在家很安全，我们的舒适并不取决于蒂尔尼将军。”凯瑟琳叹了口气。 “好吧，”她富有哲理的母亲继续说道，“我很高兴当时我不知道你的旅程；但现在一切都结束了，或许并没有造成什么大的伤害。年轻人努力奋斗总是好的。你知道，我亲爱的凯瑟琳，你一直是一个悲伤的、心不在焉的小生物。但现在你一定是被迫保持理智了，换了这么多躺椅等等。我希望你的口袋里没有留下任何东西。”

Catherine hoped so too, and tried to feel an interest in her own amendment, but her spirits were quite worn down; and, to be silent and alone becoming soon her only wish, she readily agreed to her mother’s next counsel of going early to bed. Her parents, seeing nothing in her ill looks and agitation but the natural consequence of mortified feelings, and of the unusual exertion and fatigue of such a journey, parted from her without any doubt of their being soon slept away; and though, when they all met the next morning, her recovery was not equal to their hopes, they were still perfectly unsuspicious of there being any deeper evil. They never once thought of her heart, which, for the parents of a young lady of seventeen, just returned from her first excursion from home, was odd enough!
凯瑟琳也希望如此，并试图对自己的修改产生兴趣，但她的精神非常疲惫。而且，沉默和孤独很快就会成为她唯一的愿望，她欣然同意了母亲的下一个建议，早点睡觉。她的父母从她的难看和烦躁中看到的只是一种屈辱的感觉以及这次旅行的不寻常的努力和疲劳的自然后果，他们离开了她，毫无疑问他们很快就睡了。尽管第二天早上他们见面时，她的康复情况并不符合他们的希望，但他们仍然完全没有怀疑还有更深层次的邪恶。他们从来没有想过她的心，对于一个十七岁的年轻姑娘的父母来说，她第一次从家里出去旅行，已经够奇怪的了！

As soon as breakfast was over, she sat down to fulfil her promise to Miss Tilney, whose trust in the effect of time and distance on her friend’s disposition was already justified, for already did Catherine reproach herself with having parted from Eleanor coldly, with having never enough valued her merits or kindness, and never enough commiserated her for what she had been yesterday left to endure. The strength of these feelings, however, was far from assisting her pen; and never had it been harder for her to write than in addressing Eleanor Tilney. To compose a letter which might at once do justice to her sentiments and her situation, convey gratitude without servile regret, be guarded without coldness, and honest without resentment — a letter which Eleanor might not be pained by the perusal of — and, above all, which she might not blush herself, if Henry should chance to see, was an undertaking to frighten away all her powers of performance; and, after long thought and much perplexity, to be very brief was all that she could determine on with any confidence of safety. The money therefore which Eleanor had advanced was enclosed with little more than grateful thanks, and the thousand good wishes of a most affectionate heart.
早餐一吃完，她就坐下来履行对蒂尔尼小姐的承诺，蒂尔尼小姐相信时间和距离对她朋友性格的影响已经是合理的，因为凯瑟琳已经责备自己冷漠地与埃莉诺分手了，从来没有足够重视她的优点或善良，也从来没有足够同情她昨天所忍受的一切。然而，这些感情的强度远不足以帮助她的写作；对她来说，写信从来没有比向埃莉诺·蒂尔尼讲话更困难的了。写一封信，可以立即公正地表达她的情感和处境，表达感激之情，而不是奴性的遗憾，谨慎而不冷漠，诚实而不怨恨——这封信埃莉诺读起来可能不会感到痛苦——而且，最重要的是如果亨利有机会看到的话，她可能不会脸红，这是一项吓跑她所有表演能力的事业；经过长时间的思考和困惑，她满怀信心地决定，尽量简短。因此，埃莉诺预付的钱只是表达了感激之情，以及一颗最深情的心的一千个良好祝愿。

‘This has been a strange acquaintance,’ observed Mrs. Morland, as the letter was finished; ‘soon made and soon ended. I am sorry it happens so, for Mrs. Allen thought them very pretty kind of young people; and you were sadly out of luck too in your Isabella. Ah! Poor James! Well, we must live and learn; and the next new friends you make I hope will be better worth keeping.’
“这是一位奇怪的熟人，”信写完后，莫兰太太评论道。 ‘很快就完成了，很快就结束了。我很遗憾发生这样的事，因为艾伦夫人认为他们是非常漂亮和善良的年轻人；可悲的是，你的伊莎贝拉也很不幸。啊!可怜的詹姆斯！嗯，我们必须活到老，学到老；我希望你结交的下一个新朋友会更值得保留。

Catherine coloured as she warmly answered, ‘No friend can be better worth keeping than Eleanor.’
凯瑟琳脸红了，热情地回答道：“没有哪个朋友比埃莉诺更值得保留了。”

‘If so, my dear, I dare say you will meet again some time or other; do not be uneasy. It is ten to one but you are thrown together again in the course of a few years; and then what a pleasure it will be!’
“如果是这样，亲爱的，我敢说你们总有一天会再见面的；不要不安。比例是十比一，但几年后你们又再次聚集在一起；那将是多么令人愉快的事情啊！

Mrs. Morland was not happy in her attempt at consolation. The hope of meeting again in the course of a few years could only put into Catherine’s head what might happen within that time to make a meeting dreadful to her. She could never forget Henry Tilney, or think of him with less tenderness than she did at that moment; but he might forget her; and in that case, to meet — ! Her eyes filled with tears as she pictured her acquaintance so renewed; and her mother, perceiving her comfortable suggestions to have had no good effect, proposed, as another expedient for restoring her spirits, that they should call on Mrs. Allen.
莫兰夫人对她的安慰并不高兴。几年后再次见面的希望只会让凯瑟琳的脑海中浮现出在那段时间内可能发生的事情，使她的见面变得可怕。她永远无法忘记亨利·蒂尔尼，也无法像此时此刻那样温柔地想起他。但他可能会忘记她；既然如此，那就去见——！当她想象她重新认识的人时，她的眼睛里充满了泪水。她的母亲觉得她的安慰建议没有产生什么好效果，于是提议，作为恢复她精神的另一个权宜之计，他们应该去拜访艾伦太太。

The two houses were only a quarter of a mile apart; and, as they walked, Mrs. Morland quickly dispatched all that she felt on the score of James’s disappointment. ‘We are sorry for him,’ said she; ‘but otherwise there is no harm done in the match going off; for it could not be a desirable thing to have him engaged to a girl whom we had not the smallest acquaintance with, and who was so entirely without fortune; and now, after such behaviour, we cannot think at all well of her. Just at present it comes hard to poor James; but that will not last forever; and I dare say he will be a discreeter man all his life, for the foolishness of his first choice.’
两栋房子相距只有四分之一英里。他们一边走，莫兰太太很快就发泄了她对詹姆斯失望的所有感受。 “我们为他感到难过，”她说。 “但除此之外，比赛进行并没有什么坏处；因为让他与一个我们素不相识、而且一无所有的女孩订婚并不是一件令人向往的事情。而现在，在经历了这样的行为之后，我们对她的看法一点也不好。就目前而言，可怜的詹姆斯处境艰难。但这不会永远持续下去；我敢说他一生都将是一个谨慎的人，因为他的第一选择是愚蠢的。

This was just such a summary view of the affair as Catherine could listen to; another sentence might have endangered her complaisance, and made her reply less rational; for soon were all her thinking powers swallowed up in the reflection of her own change of feelings and spirits since last she had trodden that well-known road. It was not three months ago since, wild with joyful expectation, she had there run backwards and forwards some ten times a day, with an heart light, gay, and independent; looking forward to pleasures untasted and unalloyed, and free from the apprehension of evil as from the knowledge of it. Three months ago had seen her all this; and now, how altered a being did she return!
这只是凯瑟琳能听到的对这件事的概要看法。如果再说一句话，她的顺从可能就会受到威胁，她的回答也会变得不那么理性。因为自从上次踏上那条众所周知的道路以来，她所有的思维能力很快就被她自己的感情和精神的变化所吞噬。不到三个月前，她怀着欣喜的期待，每天来回跑十来趟，心情轻松、快乐、独立；期待着未经品尝和纯粹的快乐，并且摆脱对邪恶的恐惧，就像不知道邪恶一样。三个月前她就看到了这一切；而现在，她回来后发生了多么大的变化！

She was received by the Allens with all the kindness which her unlooked-for appearance, acting on a steady affection, would naturally call forth; and great was their surprise, and warm their displeasure, on hearing how she had been treated — though Mrs. Morland’s account of it was no inflated representation, no studied appeal to their passions. ‘Catherine took us quite by surprise yesterday evening,’ said she. ‘She travelled all the way post by herself, and knew nothing of coming till Saturday night; for General Tilney, from some odd fancy or other, all of a sudden grew tired of having her there, and almost turned her out of the house. Very unfriendly, certainly; and he must be a very odd man; but we are so glad to have her amongst us again! And it is a great comfort to find that she is not a poor helpless creature, but can shift very well for herself.’
艾伦一家人热情地接待了她，她出人意料的外表和坚定的感情自然会引起人们的热情。当听到她受到的待遇时，他们感到非常惊讶，并感到更加不满——尽管莫兰夫人的描述并不是夸大其词，也没有刻意地迎合他们的激情。 “昨天晚上，凯瑟琳让我们感到非常惊讶，”她说。 “她一个人一路走来，直到星期六晚上才知道自己会来。对于蒂尔尼将军来说，由于某种奇怪的幻想或其他原因，突然厌倦了她在那里，几乎把她赶出了房子。当然，非常不友好；他一定是个很奇怪的人；但我们很高兴她再次出现在我们中间！发现她不是一个可怜无助的生物，而是可以很好地适应自己，这是一种极大的安慰。”

Mr. Allen expressed himself on the occasion with the reasonable resentment of a sensible friend; and Mrs. Allen thought his expressions quite good enough to be immediately made use of again by herself. His wonder, his conjectures, and his explanations became in succession hers, with the addition of this single remark — ‘I really have not patience with the general’ — to fill up every accidental pause. And, ‘I really have not patience with the general,’ was uttered twice after Mr. Allen left the room, without any relaxation of anger, or any material digression of thought. A more considerable degree of wandering attended the third repetition; and, after completing the fourth, she immediately added, ‘Only think, my dear, of my having got that frightful great rent in my best Mechlin so charmingly mended, before I left Bath, that one can hardly see where it was. I must show it you some day or other. Bath is a nice place, Catherine, after all. I assure you I did not above half like coming away. Mrs. Thorpe’s being there was such a comfort to us, was not it? You know, you and I were quite forlorn at first.’
艾伦先生当时表达了一位明智朋友的合理不满。艾伦夫人认为他的表情非常好，足以让她自己立即再次使用。他的惊奇、他的猜想、他的解释接连变成了她的，并加上这句话——“我对将军实在没有耐心”——来填补每一次意外的停顿。而且，“我对将军实在没有耐心”，艾伦先生离开房间后，连续说了两遍，语气没有任何缓和，也没有任何实质性的离题。第三次重复时出现了更大程度的徘徊。完成第四次之后，她立即补充道：“亲爱的，想想看，在我离开巴斯之前，我最好的梅赫林车的租金已经得到了如此迷人的修补，以至于人们几乎看不到它在哪里。”总有一天我一定要给你看。毕竟，巴斯是个好地方，凯瑟琳。我向你保证，我一点也不喜欢离开。索普夫人在那里对我们来说真是一种安慰，不是吗？你知道，一开始你和我都很孤独。

‘Yes, but that did not last long,’ said Catherine, her eyes brightening at the recollection of what had first given spirit to her existence there.
“是的，但这种情况并没有持续多久，”凯瑟琳说，回忆起最初给她的存在带来活力的东西，她的眼睛变得明亮。

‘Very true: we soon met with Mrs. Thorpe, and then we wanted for nothing. My dear, do not you think these silk gloves wear very well? I put them on new the first time of our going to the Lower Rooms, you know, and I have worn them a great deal since. Do you remember that evening?’
“非常正确：我们很快就遇到了索普夫人，然后我们就一无所获了。亲爱的，你不觉得这双丝绸手套很好戴吗？你知道，我们第一次去下层房间时，我就把它们穿上了新的，从那以后我就经常穿它们了。你还记得那天晚上吗？

‘Do I! Oh! Perfectly.’
‘是吗！哦！完美。'

‘It was very agreeable, was not it? Mr. Tilney drank tea with us, and I always thought him a great addition, he is so very agreeable. I have a notion you danced with him, but am not quite sure. I remember I had my favourite gown on.’
‘这非常令人愉快，不是吗？蒂尔尼先生和我们一起喝茶，我一直认为他是一个很好的补充，他非常令人愉快。我有一种感觉，你和他一起跳舞，但不太确定。我记得我穿着我最喜欢的礼服。

Catherine could not answer; and, after a short trial of other subjects, Mrs. Allen again returned to — ‘I really have not patience with the general! Such an agreeable, worthy man as he seemed to be! I do not suppose, Mrs. Morland, you ever saw a better-bred man in your life. His lodgings were taken the very day after he left them, Catherine. But no wonder; Milsom Street, you know.’
凯瑟琳无法回答。在短暂尝试了其他科目之后，艾伦夫人再次回到——“我对将军实在没有耐心！”他看起来是一个多么令人愉快、值得尊敬的人啊！莫兰夫人，我想您一生中从未见过一个有教养的男人。凯瑟琳，他离开后的第二天，他的住所就被占领了。但这也不足为奇；米尔瑟姆街，你知道的。

As they walked home again, Mrs. Morland endeavoured to impress on her daughter’s mind the happiness of having such steady well-wishers as Mr. and Mrs. Allen, and the very little consideration which the neglect or unkindness of slight acquaintance like the Tilneys ought to have with her, while she could preserve the good opinion and affection of her earliest friends. There was a great deal of good sense in all this; but there are some situations of the human mind in which good sense has very little power; and Catherine’s feelings contradicted almost every position her mother advanced. It was upon the behaviour of these very slight acquaintance that all her present happiness depended; and while Mrs. Morland was successfully confirming her own opinions by the justness of her own representations, Catherine was silently reflecting that now Henry must have arrived at Northanger; now he must have heard of her departure; and now, perhaps, they were all setting off for Hereford.
当他们再次走回家的时候，莫兰太太努力让女儿记住，有艾伦先生和太太这样坚定的祝福者是多么幸福，而且像蒂尔尼夫妇这样的不相识的人的疏忽或不友善本应得到很少的照顾。和她在一起，同时她可以保留她最早的朋友的好感和感情。这一切都是很有道理的。但在人类思维的某些情况下，良好的判断力几乎没有作用。凯瑟琳的感受几乎与她母亲提出的每一个立场相矛盾。她现在的幸福全都取决于这些非常不相识的人的行为。当莫兰夫人通过自己的陈述的公正性成功地证实了自己的观点时，凯瑟琳却在默默地思考，现在亨利一定已经到达了诺桑觉；现在他一定听说了她离开的消息；现在，也许他们正出发前往赫里福德。

Chapter 30
第30章

Catherine’s disposition was not naturally sedentary, nor had her habits been ever very industrious; but whatever might hitherto have been her defects of that sort, her mother could not but perceive them now to be greatly increased. She could neither sit still nor employ herself for ten minutes together, walking round the garden and orchard again and again, as if nothing but motion was voluntary; and it seemed as if she could even walk about the house rather than remain fixed for any time in the parlour. Her loss of spirits was a yet greater alteration. In her rambling and her idleness she might only be a caricature of herself; but in her silence and sadness she was the very reverse of all that she had been before.
凯瑟琳的性格并不是天生久坐不动，她的习惯也不是非常勤奋。但是，无论她迄今为止有哪些此类缺陷，她的母亲都不得不认为这些缺陷现在大大增加了。她既不能安静地坐着，也不能一起工作十分钟，在花园和果园里一遍又一遍地走来走去，仿佛除了运动之外什么都不做；看起来她甚至可以在房子里走来走去，而不是在客厅里一直呆着。她的精神失落是一个更大的变化。她的胡言乱语和无所事事，也许只是她自己的写照。但在她的沉默和悲伤中，她与以前的一切完全相反。

For two days Mrs. Morland allowed it to pass even without a hint; but when a third night’s rest had neither restored her cheerfulness, improved her in useful activity, nor given her a greater inclination for needlework, she could no longer refrain from the gentle reproof of, ‘My dear Catherine, I am afraid you are growing quite a fine lady. I do not know when poor Richard’s cravats would be done, if he had no friend but you. Your head runs too much upon Bath; but there is a time for everything — a time for balls and plays, and a time for work. You have had a long run of amusement, and now you must try to be useful.’
莫兰太太连续两天都让这一切过去，甚至没有任何暗示。但是，第三晚的休息既没有使她恢复快乐，也没有使她从事有用的活动，也没有使她更喜欢做针线活，她就忍不住温柔地责备道：“我亲爱的凯瑟琳，恐怕你长得太快了。”一位优秀的女士。如果可怜的理查德除了你没有朋友，我不知道他的领带什么时候才能完成。你的头脑太多地关注巴斯；但凡事都有时间——玩球和玩耍的时间，以及工作的时间。你已经享受了很长时间的乐趣，现在你必须努力变得有用。

Catherine took up her work directly, saying, in a dejected voice, that ‘her head did not run upon Bath — much.’
凯瑟琳直接开始了她的工作，用沮丧的声音说，“她的头脑并没有想到巴斯——太多了。”

‘Then you are fretting about General Tilney, and that is very simple of you; for ten to one whether you ever see him again. You should never fret about trifles.’ After a short silence — ‘I hope, my Catherine, you are not getting out of humour with home because it is not so grand as Northanger. That would be turning your visit into an evil indeed. Wherever you are you should always be contented, but especially at home, because there you must spend the most of your time. I did not quite like, at breakfast, to hear you talk so much about the French bread at Northanger.’
“那么你是在为蒂尔尼将军烦恼，你的想法很简单；无论你是否再见到他，都是十比一。你永远不应该为小事烦恼。”短暂的沉默之后——“我希望，我的凯瑟琳，你不会对家失去幽默感，因为它不像诺桑觉那么宏伟。那确实会让你的访问变成一种邪恶。无论你在哪里，你都应该永远感到满足，尤其是在家里，因为你必须在那里度过大部分时间。我不太喜欢在早餐时听到你谈论诺桑觉店的法式面包。

‘I am sure I do not care about the bread. it is all the same to me what I eat.’
“我确信我不关心面包。对我来说，吃什么都一样。

‘There is a very clever essay in one of the books upstairs upon much such a subject, about young girls that have been spoilt for home by great acquaintance — The Mirror, I think. I will look it out for you some day or other, because I am sure it will do you good.’
“楼上的一本书中有一篇非常聪明的文章，就是关于这样的主题，讲述的是被熟人——我想是《镜子》宠坏了的年轻女孩。总有一天我会帮你处理的，因为我相信这对你有好处。

Catherine said no more, and, with an endeavour to do right, applied to her work; but, after a few minutes, sunk again, without knowing it herself, into languor and listlessness, moving herself in her chair, from the irritation of weariness, much oftener than she moved her needle. Mrs. Morland watched the progress of this relapse; and seeing, in her daughter’s absent and dissatisfied look, the full proof of that repining spirit to which she had now begun to attribute her want of cheerfulness, hastily left the room to fetch the book in question, anxious to lose no time in attacking so dreadful a malady. It was some time before she could find what she looked for; and other family matters occurring to detain her, a quarter of an hour had elapsed ere she returned downstairs with the volume from which so much was hoped. Her avocations above having shut out all noise but what she created herself, she knew not that a visitor had arrived within the last few minutes, till, on entering the room, the first object she beheld was a young man whom she had never seen before. With a look of much respect, he immediately rose, and being introduced to her by her conscious daughter as ‘Mr. Henry Tilney,’ with the embarrassment of real sensibility began to apologize for his appearance there, acknowledging that after what had passed he had little right to expect a welcome at Fullerton, and stating his impatience to be assured of Miss Morland’s having reached her home in safety, as the cause of his intrusion. He did not address himself to an uncandid judge or a resentful heart. Far from comprehending him or his sister in their father’s misconduct, Mrs. Morland had been always kindly disposed towards each, and instantly, pleased by his appearance, received him with the simple professions of unaffected benevolence; thanking him for such an attention to her daughter, assuring him that the friends of her children were always welcome there, and entreating him to say not another word of the past.
凯瑟琳不再多说，努力做好自己的工作。但是，几分钟后，她自己又不知不觉地陷入了倦怠和无精打采的状态，由于疲倦的刺激，她在椅子上移动自己，比移动针的次数还要频繁。莫兰太太注视着病情复发的进展。看到女儿心不在焉、不满的神情，充分证明了她现在开始把自己的不高兴归咎于她的抱怨精神，她急忙离开房间去拿那本书，急于不失时机地攻击她。一种可怕的疾病。过了一段时间，她才找到她要找的东西。以及其他家庭事务的发生耽搁了她，一刻钟过去了，她才带着她满怀希望的书回到楼下。她的爱好除了排除所有噪音之外，除了她自己创造的噪音之外，她不知道在过去的几分钟内有一位访客到来，直到进入房间时，她看到的第一个物体是一个她以前从未见过的年轻人。他立刻起身，一脸恭敬的样子，意识清醒的女儿向她介绍道，称他为“先生”。亨利·蒂尔尼带着真正感性的尴尬，开始为他出现在那里道歉，承认在事情过去之后，他几乎没有权利指望在富勒顿受到欢迎，并表示他急于确保莫兰小姐已经到达她的家。安全，作为他入侵的原因。他没有向不公正的法官或怨恨的心说话。夫人根本不理解他或他的妹妹父亲的不当行为。 莫兰对每个人一向都很友善，对他的外表很满意，立刻就以不做作的仁慈的简单表白接待了他。感谢他对她女儿的如此关心，向他保证，她孩子们的朋友们在那里总是受欢迎的，并恳求他不要再提过去的事了。

He was not ill-inclined to obey this request, for, though his heart was greatly relieved by such unlooked-for mildness, it was not just at that moment in his power to say anything to the purpose. Returning in silence to his seat, therefore, he remained for some minutes most civilly answering all Mrs. Morland’s common remarks about the weather and roads. Catherine meanwhile — the anxious, agitated, happy, feverish Catherine — said not a word; but her glowing cheek and brightened eye made her mother trust that this good-natured visit would at least set her heart at ease for a time, and gladly therefore did she lay aside the first volume of The Mirror for a future hour.
他并不是不愿意服从这个请求，因为，虽然他的心因这种意想不到的温和而大为放松，但此时此刻他并没有能力说出任何符合目的的事情。因此，他默默地回到座位上，用最礼貌的方式回答了莫兰夫人关于天气和道路的所有常见评论。与此同时，凯瑟琳——焦虑、激动、快乐、发烧的凯瑟琳——一言不发。但她容光焕发的脸颊和明亮的眼睛让她母亲相信，这次善意的拜访至少会让她的心暂时放松下来，因此她很高兴把《镜子》第一卷放在一边，留到以后看。

Desirous of Mr. Morland’s assistance, as well in giving encouragement, as in finding conversation for her guest, whose embarrassment on his father’s account she earnestly pitied, Mrs. Morland had very early dispatched one of the children to summon him; but Mr. Morland was from home — and being thus without any support, at the end of a quarter of an hour she had nothing to say. After a couple of minutes’ unbroken silence, Henry, turning to Catherine for the first time since her mother’s entrance, asked her, with sudden alacrity, if Mr. and Mrs. Allen were now at Fullerton? And on developing, from amidst all her perplexity of words in reply, the meaning, which one short syllable would have given, immediately expressed his intention of paying his respects to them, and, with a rising colour, asked her if she would have the goodness to show him the way. ‘You may see the house from this window, sir,’ was information on Sarah’s side, which produced only a bow of acknowledgment from the gentleman, and a silencing nod from her mother; for Mrs. Morland, thinking it probable, as a secondary consideration in his wish of waiting on their worthy neighbours, that he might have some explanation to give of his father’s behaviour, which it must be more pleasant for him to communicate only to Catherine, would not on any account prevent her accompanying him. They began their walk, and Mrs. Morland was not entirely mistaken in his object in wishing it. Some explanation on his father’s account he had to give; but his first purpose was to explain himself, and before they reached Mr. Allen’s grounds he had done it so well that Catherine did not think it could ever be repeated too often. She was assured of his affection; and that heart in return was solicited, which, perhaps, they pretty equally knew was already entirely his own; for, though Henry was now sincerely attached to her, though he felt and delighted in all the excellencies of her character and truly loved her society, I must confess that his affection originated in nothing better than gratitude, or, in other words, that a persuasion of her partiality for him had been the only cause of giving her a serious thought. It is a new circumstance in romance, I acknowledge, and dreadfully derogatory of an heroine’s dignity; but if it be as new in common life, the credit of a wild imagination will at least be all my own.
莫兰太太渴望得到莫兰先生的帮助，并给予鼓励，并为她的客人找到谈话的机会，她真诚地同情他父亲因他的尴尬而感到的尴尬，莫兰夫人很早就派了一个孩子去召见他；因为她很高兴能得到莫兰先生的帮助。但莫兰先生不在家，因此没有任何支持，一刻钟后她无话可说。经过几分钟不间断的沉默，亨利自凯瑟琳母亲进来以来第一次转向凯瑟琳，突然敏捷地问她艾伦先生和夫人现在是否在富勒顿？在她复杂的回答中，他明白了一个简短的音节所表达的意思，立即表达了他向他们表示敬意的意图，并且脸色上升，问她是否愿意善良为他指明了道路。 “先生，您可以从这扇窗户看到房子。”莎拉这边的信息是这样的，这位绅士只鞠了一躬致意，而她的母亲则沉默地点了点头。莫兰太太认为，作为他等待值得尊敬的邻居的愿望的次要考虑，他可能会对他父亲的行为做出一些解释，对他来说，只与凯瑟琳沟通一定会更愉快，无论如何都不会阻止她陪伴他。他们开始散步，莫兰太太的愿望并没有完全错误。他必须就他父亲的事作出一些解释；但他的首要目的是解释自己，在他们到达艾伦先生的住所之前，他已经做得很好，凯瑟琳认为这不能重复得太频繁。 她对他的爱深信不疑。作为回报，那颗心被索取了，也许，他们同样知道这颗心已经完全属于他自己了；因为，尽管亨利现在真诚地依恋着她，尽管他对她品格的所有优点感到高兴并真正热爱她的社会，但我必须承认，他的感情只不过源于感激之情，或者换句话说，说服她对他的偏爱是她认真考虑的唯一原因。我承认，这是浪漫史中的一种新情况，并且严重贬低了女主人公的尊严。但如果它在日常生活中是新的，那至少要归功于我自己的天马行空的想象力。

A very short visit to Mrs. Allen, in which Henry talked at random, without sense or connection, and Catherine, rapt in the contemplation of her own unutterable happiness, scarcely opened her lips, dismissed them to the ecstasies of another tete-a-tete; and before it was suffered to close, she was enabled to judge how far he was sanctioned by parental authority in his present application. On his return from Woodston, two days before, he had been met near the abbey by his impatient father, hastily informed in angry terms of Miss Morland’s departure, and ordered to think of her no more.
亨利对艾伦夫人的拜访非常短暂，期间亨利胡言乱语，没有任何意义或联系，而凯瑟琳全神贯注地沉思着自己难以言喻的幸福，几乎没有张开嘴唇，将他们打发到另一次亲密接触的狂喜中。太特；在关闭之前，她能够判断他在目前的申请中受到了父母权威的制裁。两天前，当他从伍德斯顿回来时，他不耐烦的父亲在修道院附近遇见了他，他匆忙地用愤怒的语气告知莫兰小姐的离开，并命令他不要再想起她。

Such was the permission upon which he had now offered her his hand. The affrighted Catherine, amidst all the terrors of expectation, as she listened to this account, could not but rejoice in the kind caution with which Henry had saved her from the necessity of a conscientious rejection, by engaging her faith before he mentioned the subject; and as he proceeded to give the particulars, and explain the motives of his father’s conduct, her feelings soon hardened into even a triumphant delight. The general had had nothing to accuse her of, nothing to lay to her charge, but her being the involuntary, unconscious object of a deception which his pride could not pardon, and which a better pride would have been ashamed to own. She was guilty only of being less rich than he had supposed her to be. Under a mistaken persuasion of her possessions and claims, he had courted her acquaintance in Bath, solicited her company at Northanger, and designed her for his daughter-in-law. On discovering his error, to turn her from the house seemed the best, though to his feelings an inadequate proof of his resentment towards herself, and his contempt of her family.
这就是他现在向她伸出手的许可。受到惊吓的凯瑟琳，在期待的恐惧中，当她听着这个叙述时，她不禁为亨利的善意谨慎而感到高兴，亨利在提到这个话题之前就让她相信了她的信仰，从而将她从良心拒绝的必要性中拯救出来。当他开始提供细节并解释他父亲行为的动机时，她的感情很快就变得坚定，甚至变成了一种胜利的喜悦。将军没有什么可指责她的，没有什么可以指责她的，但她是一个不自觉的、无意识的欺骗对象，他的自尊心无法原谅她，而一个更好的自尊心也会羞于承认这一点。她只为自己没有他想象的那么富有而感到内疚。在她的财产和要求的错误说服下，他在巴斯向她的熟人求爱，在诺桑觉寺邀请她作伴，并为他的儿媳设计了她。在发现自己的错误后，将她赶出家门似乎是最好的选择，尽管对他来说，这不足以证明他对自己的怨恨和对她家人的蔑视。

John Thorpe had first misled him. The general, perceiving his son one night at the theatre to be paying considerable attention to Miss Morland, had accidentally inquired of Thorpe if he knew more of her than her name. Thorpe, most happy to be on speaking terms with a man of General Tilney’s importance, had been joyfully and proudly communicative; and being at that time not only in daily expectation of Morland’s engaging Isabella, but likewise pretty well resolved upon marrying Catherine himself, his vanity induced him to represent the family as yet more wealthy than his vanity and avarice had made him believe them. With whomsoever he was, or was likely to be connected, his own consequence always required that theirs should be great, and as his intimacy with any acquaintance grew, so regularly grew their fortune. The expectations of his friend Morland, therefore, from the first overrated, had ever since his introduction to Isabella been gradually increasing; and by merely adding twice as much for the grandeur of the moment, by doubling what he chose to think the amount of Mr. Morland’s preferment, trebling his private fortune, bestowing a rich aunt, and sinking half the children, he was able to represent the whole family to the general in a most respectable light. For Catherine, however, the peculiar object of the general’s curiosity, and his own speculations, he had yet something more in reserve, and the ten or fifteen thousand pounds which her father could give her would be a pretty addition to Mr. Allen’s estate. Her intimacy there had made him seriously determine on her being handsomely legacied hereafter; and to speak of her therefore as the almost acknowledged future heiress of Fullerton naturally followed. Upon such intelligence the general had proceeded; for never had it occurred to him to doubt its authority. Thorpe’s interest in the family, by his sister’s approaching connection with one of its members, and his own views on another (circumstances of which he boasted with almost equal openness), seemed sufficient vouchers for his truth; and to these were added the absolute facts of the Allens being wealthy and childless, of Miss Morland’s being under their care, and — as soon as his acquaintance allowed him to judge — of their treating her with parental kindness. His resolution was soon formed. Already had he discerned a liking towards Miss Morland in the countenance of his son; and thankful for Mr. Thorpe’s communication, he almost instantly determined to spare no pains in weakening his boasted interest and ruining his dearest hopes. Catherine herself could not be more ignorant at the time of all this, than his own children. Henry and Eleanor, perceiving nothing in her situation likely to engage their father’s particular respect, had seen with astonishment the suddenness, continuance, and extent of his attention; and though latterly, from some hints which had accompanied an almost positive command to his son of doing everything in his power to attach her, Henry was convinced of his father’s believing it to be an advantageous connection, it was not till the late explanation at Northanger that they had the smallest idea of the false calculations which had hurried him on. That they were false, the general had learnt from the very person who had suggested them, from Thorpe himself, whom he had chanced to meet again in town, and who, under the influence of exactly opposite feelings, irritated by Catherine’s refusal, and yet more by the failure of a very recent endeavour to accomplish a reconciliation between Morland and Isabella, convinced that they were separated forever, and spurning a friendship which could be no longer serviceable, hastened to contradict all that he had said before to the advantage of the Morlands — confessed himself to have been totally mistaken in his opinion of their circumstances and character, misled by the rhodomontade of his friend to believe his father a man of substance and credit, whereas the transactions of the two or three last weeks proved him to be neither; for after coming eagerly forward on the first overture of a marriage between the families, with the most liberal proposals, he had, on being brought to the point by the shrewdness of the relator, been constrained to acknowledge himself incapable of giving the young people even a decent support. They were, in fact, a necessitous family; numerous, too, almost beyond example; by no means respected in their own neighbourhood, as he had lately had particular opportunities of discovering; aiming at a style of life which their fortune could not warrant; seeking to better themselves by wealthy connections; a forward, bragging, scheming race.
约翰·索普首先误导了他。一天晚上，将军在剧院里发现儿子对莫兰小姐相当关注，便无意中询问索普是否比她的名字更了解她。索普非常高兴能与蒂尔尼将军这样重要的人物交谈，他一直愉快而自豪地与人交谈。那时，他不仅每天都在期待着莫兰与伊莎贝拉的订婚，而且同样下定决心要亲自嫁给凯瑟琳，他的虚荣心促使他代表这个家庭，比他的虚荣心和贪婪让他相信的还要富有。无论他是谁，或者可能与谁有联系，他自己的后果总是要求他们的后果应该是伟大的，并且随着他与任何熟人的亲密程度的增加，他们的财富也会定期增长。因此，他的朋友莫兰的期望从一开始就被高估了，自从他认识伊莎贝拉以来，他的期望就逐渐增加了。仅仅为了当时的宏伟而增加两倍，通过将他选择的莫兰先生的晋升数额增加一倍，将他的私人财产增加三倍，赐予一位富有的阿姨，并让一半的孩子沉没，他就能够代表全家人都对这位将军表示最尊敬。然而，对于凯瑟琳来说，这位将军好奇的特殊对象，以及他自己的猜测，他还有更多的储备，而她父亲可以给她的一万或一万五千英镑将是艾伦先生财产的一笔相当可观的补充。她在那里的亲密关系使他认真地决定今后要给她留下丰厚的遗产。因此，自然而然地，我们将她视为几乎公认的富勒顿未来的女继承人。 将军接到这样的情报后就行动了。因为他从来没有想过怀疑它的权威。索普对家庭的兴趣，从他姐姐与其中一位成员的亲密关系，以及他自己对另一位成员的看法（他几乎同样公开地夸耀的情况）来看，似乎足以证明他的真实性。除此之外，艾伦一家很富有，没有孩子，莫兰小姐受到他们的照顾，而且——一旦他的熟人允许他做出判断——他们以父母般的仁慈对待她，这些都是绝对的事实。他的决心很快就下定了。他已经从儿子的脸上看出了对莫兰小姐的喜爱。感谢索普先生的沟通，他几乎立即决定不遗余力地削弱他所吹嘘的兴趣并毁掉他最热切的希望。在这一切发生的时候，凯瑟琳本人比他自己的孩子们更无知。亨利和埃莉诺认为她的处境没有任何值得他们父亲特别尊敬的地方，他们惊讶地看到他的关注如此突然、持续和广泛；尽管后来，从一些暗示中，亨利对他的儿子发出了近乎肯定的命令，要求他尽其所能地联系她，他确信他的父亲相信这是一种有利的联系，但直到诺桑觉寺的最后解释才如此。他们对催促他继续前进的错误计算一无所知。 将军从提出这些建议的人那里，从索普本人那里得知，这些都是假的，他在城里有机会再次见到索普，索普在完全相反的感情影响下，对凯瑟琳的拒绝感到恼火，但更重要的是，莫兰和伊莎贝拉最近试图实现和解的努力失败了，他们确信他们永远分开了，并抛弃了不再有用的友谊，急忙反驳他之前所说的一切，以利于莫兰和伊莎贝拉。莫兰兹——承认自己对他们的处境和性格的看法完全错误，他被朋友的罗多蒙塔德误导，相信他的父亲是一个有钱有信誉的人，而过去两三周的交易证明他是两者都不;因为在他热切地提出了双方家庭之间联姻的第一个提议，并提出了最自由的建议后，在被精明的谈话者所引导时，他不得不承认自己无法给年轻人甚至一个体面的支持。事实上，他们是一个贫困家庭。数量也很多，几乎不胜枚举；正如他最近有特殊的机会发现的那样，他们在自己的邻居中决不受尊重；追求一种他们的财富无法保证的生活方式；寻求通过富裕的人脉关系来改善自己；一场向前、吹牛、诡计多端的竞赛。

The terrified general pronounced the name of Allen with an inquiring look; and here too Thorpe had learnt his error. The Allens, he believed, had lived near them too long, and he knew the young man on whom the Fullerton estate must devolve. The general needed no more. Enraged with almost everybody in the world but himself, he set out the next day for the abbey, where his performances have been seen.
惊恐万状的将军带着询问的表情念出了艾伦的名字。在这里，索普也认识到了自己的错误。他相信艾伦一家在他们附近住得太久了，而且他认识富勒顿庄园必须移交给那个年轻人。将军不再需要了。除了他自己之外，他对世界上几乎所有人都感到愤怒，第二天他出发前往修道院，在那里人们看到了他的表演。

I leave it to my reader’s sagacity to determine how much of all this it was possible for Henry to communicate at this time to Catherine, how much of it he could have learnt from his father, in what points his own conjectures might assist him, and what portion must yet remain to be told in a letter from James. I have united for their case what they must divide for mine. Catherine, at any rate, heard enough to feel that in suspecting General Tilney of either murdering or shutting up his wife, she had scarcely sinned against his character, or magnified his cruelty.
我留给读者的智慧来确定亨利此时有可能向凯瑟琳传达所有这些信息的多少，他可以从他的父亲那里学到多少，他自己的猜想在哪些方面可以帮助他，以及雅各的信中还必须说明哪些部分。我已经为他们的案件联合了他们必须为我的案件划分的部分。无论如何，凯瑟琳听得够多了，她怀疑蒂尔尼将军要么谋杀了他的妻子，要么让他的妻子闭嘴，她几乎没有违背他的品格，也没有放大他的残忍。

Henry, in having such things to relate of his father, was almost as pitiable as in their first avowal to himself. He blushed for the narrow-minded counsel which he was obliged to expose. The conversation between them at Northanger had been of the most unfriendly kind. Henry’s indignation on hearing how Catherine had been treated, on comprehending his father’s views, and being ordered to acquiesce in them, had been open and bold. The general, accustomed on every ordinary occasion to give the law in his family, prepared for no reluctance but of feeling, no opposing desire that should dare to clothe itself in words, could ill brook the opposition of his son, steady as the sanction of reason and the dictate of conscience could make it. But, in such a cause, his anger, though it must shock, could not intimidate Henry, who was sustained in his purpose by a conviction of its justice. He felt himself bound as much in honour as in affection to Miss Morland, and believing that heart to be his own which he had been directed to gain, no unworthy retraction of a tacit consent, no reversing decree of unjustifiable anger, could shake his fidelity, or influence the resolutions it prompted.
亨利向他父亲讲述这样的事情，几乎和他们第一次向自己坦白一样可怜。他为自己不得不揭露的狭隘建议而脸红。他们在诺桑觉寺的谈话是最不友好的。亨利在听到凯瑟琳受到的待遇、理解父亲的观点并被命令默认这些观点后，他的愤慨是公开而大胆的。将军习惯于在每一个普通场合在他的家庭中颁布法律，除了感情之外，没有任何不情愿的准备，没有胆敢用语言来表达的反对欲望，他无法忍受他儿子的反对，他的儿子的反对就像他的批准一样坚定。理性和良心的支配可以做到这一点。但是，在这样的事业中，他的愤怒虽然一定令人震惊，但却无法吓倒亨利，因为他坚信其正义，从而支持了他的目的。他觉得自己既受到荣誉的约束，也受到对莫兰小姐的感情的约束，并相信那颗心是他自己的，他是被指示去获得的，没有任何不值得的撤回默许，没有无理愤怒的逆转法令，可以动摇他的忠诚，或影响它所提示的决议。

He steadily refused to accompany his father into Herefordshire, an engagement formed almost at the moment to promote the dismissal of Catherine, and as steadily declared his intention of offering her his hand. The general was furious in his anger, and they parted in dreadful disagreement. Henry, in an agitation of mind which many solitary hours were required to compose, had returned almost instantly to Woodston, and, on the afternoon of the following day, had begun his journey to Fullerton.
他坚决拒绝随父亲前往赫里福德郡，订婚几乎是在此时达成的，以促进凯瑟琳的解雇，并坚定地宣布他打算向她伸出援手。将军怒不可遏，他们在可怕的分歧中分道扬镳。亨利心情烦躁，需要许多孤独的时间才能平静下来，他几乎立即回到了伍德斯顿，并于第二天下午开始了前往富勒顿的旅程。

Chapter 31
第31章

Mr. and Mrs. Morland’s surprise on being applied to by Mr. Tilney for their consent to his marrying their daughter was, for a few minutes, considerable, it having never entered their heads to suspect an attachment on either side; but as nothing, after all, could be more natural than Catherine’s being beloved, they soon learnt to consider it with only the happy agitation of gratified pride, and, as far as they alone were concerned, had not a single objection to start. His pleasing manners and good sense were self-evident recommendations; and having never heard evil of him, it was not their way to suppose any evil could be told. Goodwill supplying the place of experience, his character needed no attestation. ‘Catherine would make a sad, heedless young housekeeper to be sure,’ was her mother’s foreboding remark; but quick was the consolation of there being nothing like practice.
蒂尔尼先生向莫兰先生请求同意他与他们的女儿结婚，莫兰先生和夫人在几分钟内感到非常惊讶，因为他们从来没有怀疑过任何一方有任何依恋。但毕竟，没有什么比凯瑟琳被爱更自然的事情了，他们很快就学会了只带着满足的骄傲的快乐激动来考虑这一点，就他们个人而言，没有任何反对开始。他令人愉快的举止和良好的判断力是不言而喻的建议。他们从来没有听说过他的坏事，因此不可能认为他有什么坏事。善意提供了经验，他的品格无需证明。 “凯瑟琳肯定会成为一个悲伤、粗心的年轻管家，”这是她母亲的不祥之言。但很快就得到了安慰，因为没有什么比练习更重要的事情了。

There was but one obstacle, in short, to be mentioned; but till that one was removed, it must be impossible for them to sanction the engagement. Their tempers were mild, but their principles were steady, and while his parent so expressly forbade the connection, they could not allow themselves to encourage it. That the general should come forward to solicit the alliance, or that he should even very heartily approve it, they were not refined enough to make any parading stipulation; but the decent appearance of consent must be yielded, and that once obtained — and their own hearts made them trust that it could not be very long denied — their willing approbation was instantly to follow. His consent was all that they wished for. They were no more inclined than entitled to demand his money. Of a very considerable fortune, his son was, by marriage settlements, eventually secure; his present income was an income of independence and comfort, and under every pecuniary view, it was a match beyond the claims of their daughter.
简而言之，只有一个障碍值得一提：但在那个人被除掉之前，他们肯定不可能批准这桩婚事。他们的脾气很温和，但原则很坚定，虽然他的父母明确禁止这种联系，但他们却不允许自己鼓励这种联系。将军出面求盟，甚至是由他衷心赞同，还没有细化到能做出什么游行的规定；但必须表现出体面的同意，一旦获得同意——他们自己的内心使他们相信，这一点不会被长期否认——他们的自愿认可就会立即随之而来。他的同意就是他们所希望的一切。他们既没有权利也没有意愿要他的钱。他的儿子拥有一笔非常可观的财产，通过婚姻协议，他最终获得​​了保障。他目前的收入是一份独立而舒适的收入，从任何金钱角度来看，这都超出了他们女儿的要求。

The young people could not be surprised at a decision like this. They felt and they deplored — but they could not resent it; and they parted, endeavouring to hope that such a change in the general, as each believed almost impossible, might speedily take place, to unite them again in the fullness of privileged affection. Henry returned to what was now his only home, to watch over his young plantations, and extend his improvements for her sake, to whose share in them he looked anxiously forward; and Catherine remained at Fullerton to cry. Whether the torments of absence were softened by a clandestine correspondence, let us not inquire. Mr. and Mrs. Morland never did — they had been too kind to exact any promise; and whenever Catherine received a letter, as, at that time, happened pretty often, they always looked another way.
对于这样的决定，年轻人并不感到惊讶。他们有感触，也有痛惜——但他们无法怨恨；他们分开了，努力希望这种大家都认为几乎不可能的变化能够迅速发生，使他们在特权感情中再次团结起来。亨利回到了他现在唯一的家，看管他年轻的种植园，并为了她而扩大他的改进，他焦急地期待着她能分享这些种植园；凯瑟琳留在富勒顿哭泣。秘密通信是否减轻了缺席带来的痛苦，我们暂且不问。莫兰先生和莫兰夫人从来没有这样做过——他们太仁慈了，没有兑现任何承诺。每当凯瑟琳收到一封信时（当时这种情况经常发生），他们总是用另一种方式看待。

The anxiety, which in this state of their attachment must be the portion of Henry and Catherine, and of all who loved either, as to its final event, can hardly extend, I fear, to the bosom of my readers, who will see in the tell-tale compression of the pages before them, that we are all hastening together to perfect felicity. The means by which their early marriage was effected can be the only doubt: what probable circumstance could work upon a temper like the general’s? The circumstance which chiefly availed was the marriage of his daughter with a man of fortune and consequence, which took place in the course of the summer — an accession of dignity that threw him into a fit of good humour, from which he did not recover till after Eleanor had obtained his forgiveness of Henry, and his permission for him ‘to be a fool if he liked it!’
在他们的这种依恋状态下，亨利和凯瑟琳以及所有爱过他们的人，对于最终事件的焦虑，恐怕很难延伸到我的读者的心中，他们将在面前的书页明显压缩了，我们都在加紧努力，争取完美的幸福。他们早年结婚的方式可能是唯一的疑问：什么可能的情况会对将军这样的脾气产生影响？最有利的情况是他的女儿在夏天嫁给了一个有钱有势的人——尊严的增加使他心情愉悦，直到他恢复过来。在埃莉诺获得亨利的原谅并允许他“如果他愿意的话，就可以当个傻瓜！”之后

The marriage of Eleanor Tilney, her removal from all the evils of such a home as Northanger had been made by Henry’s banishment, to the home of her choice and the man of her choice, is an event which I expect to give general satisfaction among all her acquaintance. My own joy on the occasion is very sincere. I know no one more entitled, by unpretending merit, or better prepared by habitual suffering, to receive and enjoy felicity. Her partiality for this gentleman was not of recent origin; and he had been long withheld only by inferiority of situation from addressing her. His unexpected accession to title and fortune had removed all his difficulties; and never had the general loved his daughter so well in all her hours of companionship, utility, and patient endurance as when he first hailed her ‘Your Ladyship!’ Her husband was really deserving of her; independent of his peerage, his wealth, and his attachment, being to a precision the most charming young man in the world. Any further definition of his merits must be unnecessary; the most charming young man in the world is instantly before the imagination of us all. Concerning the one in question, therefore, I have only to add — aware that the rules of composition forbid the introduction of a character not connected with my fable — that this was the very gentleman whose negligent servant left behind him that collection of washing-bills, resulting from a long visit at Northanger, by which my heroine was involved in one of her most alarming adventures.
埃莉诺·蒂尔尼的婚姻，她摆脱了诺桑觉这样一个因亨利的放逐而产生的家庭的所有罪恶，嫁给了她选择的家庭和她选择的男人，这是一件我希望让所有人普遍满意的事件。她的熟人。我自己此时的喜悦是非常真诚的。我不知道谁更有资格通过不假装的功德，或者通过习惯性的苦难更好地准备接受和享受幸福。她对这位绅士的偏爱并不是最近才产生的。他长期以来一直没有向她讲话，只是因为处境卑微。他出乎意料地获得了头衔和财富，消除了他所有的困难。将军从来没有像第一次称呼她为“夫人！”时那样，如此深爱着他的女儿，在她的陪伴、效用和耐心的陪伴下，她的丈夫真的配得上她。不受他的贵族身份、财富和依恋的影响，准确地说是世界上最有魅力的年轻人。对他的优点进行任何进一步的定义都是不必要的；世界上最迷人的年轻人立即出现在我们所有人的想象中。因此，关于这个人物，我只需补充一下——意识到写作规则禁止引入与我的寓言无关的人物——这正是那位绅士，他的粗心仆人留下了那堆洗衣单。 ，源于对诺桑觉寺的长期访问，我的女主角卷入了她最令人震惊的冒险之一。

The influence of the viscount and viscountess in their brother’s behalf was assisted by that right understanding of Mr. Morland’s circumstances which, as soon as the general would allow himself to be informed, they were qualified to give. It taught him that he had been scarcely more misled by Thorpe’s first boast of the family wealth than by his subsequent malicious overthrow of it; that in no sense of the word were they necessitous or poor, and that Catherine would have three thousand pounds. This was so material an amendment of his late expectations that it greatly contributed to smooth the descent of his pride; and by no means without its effect was the private intelligence, which he was at some pains to procure, that the Fullerton estate, being entirely at the disposal of its present proprietor, was consequently open to every greedy speculation.
子爵夫妇对莫兰先生处境的正确理解有助于子爵夫妇对他们兄弟的影响，一旦将军允许自己了解情况，他们就有资格给予帮助。这让他明白，索普第一次吹嘘家族财富所误导的程度，并不比他随后恶意推翻家族财富的行为更严重。他们绝对不是贫困的人，凯瑟琳将有三千英镑。这是对他迟来的期望的重大修正，极大地促进了他的骄傲的顺利下降。他煞费苦心才获得的私人情报也绝非没有影响，即富勒顿庄园完全由现任所有者支配，因此容易受到各种贪婪的投机行为的影响。

On the strength of this, the general, soon after Eleanor’s marriage, permitted his son to return to Northanger, and thence made him the bearer of his consent, very courteously worded in a page full of empty professions to Mr. Morland. The event which it authorized soon followed: Henry and Catherine were married, the bells rang, and everybody smiled; and, as this took place within a twelvemonth from the first day of their meeting, it will not appear, after all the dreadful delays occasioned by the general’s cruelty, that they were essentially hurt by it. To begin perfect happiness at the respective ages of twenty-six and eighteen is to do pretty well; and professing myself moreover convinced that the general’s unjust interference, so far from being really injurious to their felicity, was perhaps rather conducive to it, by improving their knowledge of each other, and adding strength to their attachment, I leave it to be settled, by whomsoever it may concern, whether the tendency of thisw work be altogether to recommend parental tyranny, or reward filial disobedience.
有鉴于此，埃莉诺结婚后不久，将军就允许他的儿子返回诺桑觉，并让他成为同意书的持有者，在一页充满了对莫兰先生的空洞的表白中，措辞非常礼貌。它批准的活动很快就发生了：亨利和凯瑟琳结婚了，钟声敲响了，每个人都微笑着；而且，由于这件事发生在他们见面的第一天之后的十二个月内，在将军的残暴行为造成了所有可怕的拖延之后，他们似乎并没有受到实质上的伤害。在二十六岁和十八岁开始完美的幸福已经相当不错了。我还表示自己相信，将军的不公正干涉不但没有真正损害他们的幸福，反而可能有利于他们的幸福，通过增进他们对彼此的了解，增强他们的依恋，我让这件事尘埃落定，不管是谁做的，这部作品的倾向是完全提倡父母的暴政，还是奖励不孝顺的人。

* Vide a letter from Mr. Richardson, No. 97, Vol. II, Rambler.
* 参见理查森先生的一封信，第 97 卷，第 1 卷。二、漫步者。

A NOTE ON THE TEXT
关于文本的注释

Northanger Abbey was written in 1797-98 under a different title. The manuscript was revised around 1803 and sold to a London publisher, Crosbie & Co., who sold it back in 1816. The Signet Classic text is based on the first edition, published by John Murray, London, in 1818 — the year following Miss Austen’s death. Spelling and punctuation have been largely brought into conformity with modern British usage.
《诺桑觉寺》于 1797-98 年以不同的标题写成。该手稿于 1803 年左右进行了修订，并卖给了一家伦敦出版商 Crosbie & Co.，后者于 1816 年将其卖回。Signet Classic 文本以第一版为基础，由约翰·默里 (John Murray) 在 1818 年（即《小姐》出版后的第二年）在伦敦出版。奥斯汀之死。拼写和标点符号已基本符合现代英国的用法。