The-Picture-of-Dorian-Gray
道林·格雷的画像
The Picture of Dorian Gray
道林·格雷的画像
Chapter I
第一章
Chapter II
第二章
Chapter III
第三章
Chapter IV
第四章
Chapter V
第五章
Chapter VI
第六章
Chapter VII
第七章
Chapter VIII
第八章
Chapter IX
第九章
Chapter X
第十章
Chapter XI
第十一章
Chapter XII
第十二章
Chapter XIII
第十三章


The Picture of Dorian Gray
道林·格雷的画像

By Oscar Wilde (1890)
奥斯卡·王尔德 (1890)

Chapter I
第一章

The studio was filled with the rich odor of roses, and when the light summer wind stirred amidst the trees of the garden there came through the open door the heavy scent of the lilac, or the more delicate perfume of the pink-flowering thorn.
画室里充满了浓郁的玫瑰花香，当夏日的微风吹过花园里的树林时，从敞开的门里传来浓浓的紫丁香香味，或者是粉红色花刺的更精致的香味。

From the corner of the divan of Persian saddle-bags on which he was lying, smoking, as usual, innumerable cigarettes, Lord Henry Wotton could just catch the gleam of the honey-sweet and honey-colored blossoms of the laburnum, whose tremulous branches seemed hardly able to bear the burden of a beauty so flame-like as theirs; and now and then the fantastic shadows of birds in flight flitted across the long tussore-silk curtains that were stretched in front of the huge window, producing a kind of momentary Japanese effect, and making him think of those pallid jade-faced painters who, in an art that is necessarily immobile, seek to convey the sense of swiftness and motion. The sullen murmur of the bees shouldering their way through the long unmown grass, or circling with monotonous insistence round the black-crocketed spires of the early June hollyhocks, seemed to make the stillness more oppressive, and the dim roar of London was like the bourdon note of a distant organ.
亨利·沃顿勋爵像往常一样，躺在波斯马鞍包长沙发的一角，吸着无数香烟，他正好能看到金链花蜜色甜甜的花朵的光芒，它的枝条颤抖着。似乎难以承受像他们这样火焰般的美人的负担。巨大的窗户前拉着长长的草丝窗帘，不时有飞鸟的奇异影子掠过，产生一种瞬间的日本效果，让他想起那些苍白玉面的画家，在必然是静止的艺术中，寻求传达快速和运动的感觉。蜜蜂在长长的未割过的草地上艰难前行，或者单调地坚持绕着六月初蜀葵的黑色尖顶盘旋，发出阴沉的低语声，似乎让寂静变得更加压抑，而伦敦的昏暗轰鸣就像波登远处器官的音符。

In the centre of the room, clamped to an upright easel, stood the full-length portrait of a young man of extraordinary personal beauty, and in front of it, some little distance away, was sitting the artist himself, Basil Hallward, whose sudden disappearance some years ago caused, at the time, such public excitement, and gave rise to so many strange conjectures.
房间中央，竖立着一个直立的画架，立着一幅具有非凡个人美感的年轻人的全身肖像，在肖像前面不远的地方，坐着艺术家本人，巴兹尔·霍尔沃德，他的突然出现在他的面前。几年前的失踪事件在当时引起了公众的极大关注，并引发了许多奇怪的猜想。

As he looked at the gracious and comely form he had so skilfully mirrored in his art, a smile of pleasure passed across his face, and seemed about to linger there. But he suddenly started up, and, closing his eyes, placed his fingers upon the lids, as though he sought to imprison within his brain some curious dream from which he feared he might awake.
当他看着自己在艺术中如此巧妙地反映出来的优雅而美丽的身影时，他的脸上掠过一丝愉悦的微笑，似乎要停留在那里。但他突然惊醒，闭上眼睛，将手指放在眼睑上，仿佛他试图将一些奇怪的梦囚禁在他的大脑中，他担心自己会从中醒来。

‘It is your best work, Basil, the best thing you have ever done,’ said Lord Henry, languidly. ‘You must certainly send it next year to the Grosvenor. The Academy is too large and too vulgar. The Grosvenor is the only place.’
“这是你最好的工作，巴兹尔，你做过的最好的事情，”亨利勋爵懒洋洋地说。 “明年你一定要把它寄给格罗夫纳。学院太大，也太庸俗。格罗夫纳是唯一的地方。

‘I don’t think I will send it anywhere,’ he answered, tossing his head back in that odd way that used to make his friends laugh at him at Oxford. ‘No: I won’t send it anywhere.’
“我想我不会把它寄到任何地方，”他回答道，用一种奇怪的方式向后仰着头，这种方式过去常常让他在牛津的朋友们嘲笑他。 “不：我不会把它寄到任何地方。”

Lord Henry elevated his eyebrows, and looked at him in amazement through the thin blue wreaths of smoke that curled up in such fanciful whorls from his heavy opium-tainted cigarette. ‘Not send it anywhere? My dear fellow, why? Have you any reason? What odd chaps you painters are! You do anything in the world to gain a reputation. As soon as you have one, you seem to want to throw it away. It is silly of you, for there is only one thing in the world worse than being talked about, and that is not being talked about. A portrait like this would set you far above all the young men in England, and make the old men quite jealous, if old men are ever capable of any emotion.’
亨利勋爵扬起了眉毛，透过他吸着的浓重的鸦片污染的香烟，在蓝色的薄烟中盘旋成奇特的旋涡，惊讶地看着他。 ‘不把它送到任何地方吗？我亲爱的朋友，为什么？你有什么理由吗？你们这些画家真是奇怪的家伙！为了获得声誉，你可以在世界上做任何事。一旦你拥有了它，你似乎就想把它扔掉。你真是愚蠢，因为世界上只有一件事比被谈论更糟糕，那就是不被谈论。像这样的肖像会让你远远超过英国所有的年轻人，并且会让老人非常嫉妒，如果老人有任何情感的话。

‘I know you will laugh at me,’ he replied, ‘but I really can’t exhibit it. I have put too much of myself into it.’
“我知道你会嘲笑我，”他回答道，“但我真的无法表现出来。”我投入了太多的精力。

Lord Henry stretched his long legs out on the divan and shook with laughter.
亨利勋爵把长腿伸到沙发上，笑得浑身发抖。

‘Yes, I knew you would laugh; but it is quite true, all the same.’
“是的，我就知道你会笑；但无论如何，这是千真万确的。”

‘Too much of yourself in it! Upon my word, Basil, I didn’t know you were so vain; and I really can’t see any resemblance between you, with your rugged strong face and your coal-black hair, and this young Adonis, who looks as if he was made of ivory and rose-leaves. Why, my dear Basil, he is a Narcissus, and you—well, of course you have an intellectual expression, and all that. But beauty, real beauty, ends where an intellectual expression begins. Intellect is in itself an exaggeration, and destroys the harmony of any face. The moment one sits down to think, one becomes all nose, or all forehead, or something horrid. Look at the successful men in any of the learned professions. How perfectly hideous they are! Except, of course, in the Church. But then in the Church they don’t think. A bishop keeps on saying at the age of eighty what he was told to say when he was a boy of eighteen, and consequently he always looks absolutely delightful. Your mysterious young friend, whose name you have never told me, but whose picture really fascinates me, never thinks. I feel quite sure of that. He is a brainless, beautiful thing, who should be always here in winter when we have no flowers to look at, and always here in summer when we want something to chill our intelligence. Don’t flatter yourself, Basil: you are not in the least like him.’
‘你自己太多了！老实说，巴兹尔，我不知道你这么虚荣；我真的看不出你那张粗犷而坚强的脸庞和你那乌黑的头发，和这个看上去就像是用象牙和玫瑰叶做成的年轻阿多尼斯之间有任何相似之处。哎呀，我亲爱的巴兹尔，他是水仙，而你——嗯，当然你有一种理智的表达方式，等等。但美，真正的美，在智慧表达开始的地方结束。理智本身就是一种夸张，会破坏任何面孔的和谐。当一个人坐下来思考的时候，一个人就会变得全是鼻子，或者全是额头，或者一些可怕的东西。看看任何有学问的职业中的成功人士。它们是多么的丑陋啊！当然，除了在教堂里。但在教会里他们不思考。一位主教在八十岁时仍继续说他十八岁时被告知要说的话，因此他总是看起来绝对令人愉快。你那位神秘的年轻朋友，你从未告诉过我他的名字，但他的照片却让我着迷，他从不思考。我对此深信不疑。他是一个无脑而美丽的东西，当我们没有鲜花可看的冬天，他应该永远在这里；当我们想要一些东西来冷却我们的智慧时，他应该永远在这里。别自以为是了，巴兹尔：你一点也不像他。”

‘You don’t understand me, Harry. Of course I am not like him. I know that perfectly well. Indeed, I should be sorry to look like him. You shrug your shoulders? I am telling you the truth. There is a fatality about all physical and intellectual distinction, the sort of fatality that seems to dog through history the faltering steps of kings. It is better not to be different from one’s fellows. The ugly and the stupid have the best of it in this world. They can sit quietly and gape at the play. If they know nothing of victory, they are at least spared the knowledge of defeat. They live as we all should live, undisturbed, indifferent, and without disquiet. They neither bring ruin upon others nor ever receive it from alien hands. Your rank and wealth, Harry; my brains, such as they are,—my fame, whatever it may be worth; Dorian Gray’s good looks,—we will all suffer for what the gods have given us, suffer terribly.’
“你不明白我的意思，哈利。我当然不像他。我非常清楚这一点。确实，我应该为长得像他而感到遗憾。你耸肩吗？我告诉你真相。所有身体和智力上的区别都有一种宿命，这种宿命似乎在历史上一直困扰着国王们步履蹒跚的脚步。最好不要与同伴不同。丑陋和愚蠢的人拥有这个世界上最好的东西。他们可以安静地坐着，目瞪口呆地看戏。如果他们对胜利一无所知，那么他们至少不会知道失败。他们过着我们都应该过的生活，不受干扰，冷漠，没有不安。他们既不会给别人带来毁灭，也不会从外星人手中接受毁灭。你的地位和财富，哈利；我的大脑，无论它的价值如何；道林·格雷的美貌，——我们都会因为众神赐予我们的东西而受苦，受苦受难。”

‘Dorian Gray? is that his name?’ said Lord Henry, walking across the studio towards Basil Hallward.
“道林·格雷？这是他的名字吗？”亨利勋爵一边说，一边穿过工作室朝巴兹尔·霍尔沃德走去。

‘Yes; that is his name. I didn’t intend to tell it to you.’
'是的;这是他的名字。我本来不想告诉你的。

‘But why not?’
“但为什么不呢？”

‘Oh, I can’t explain. When I like people immensely I never tell their names to any one. It seems like surrendering a part of them. You know how I love secrecy. It is the only thing that can make modern life wonderful or mysterious to us. The commonest thing is delightful if one only hides it. When I leave town I never tell my people where I am going. If I did, I would lose all my pleasure. It is a silly habit, I dare say, but somehow it seems to bring a great deal of romance into one’s life. I suppose you think me awfully foolish about it?’
‘哦，我无法解释。当我非常喜欢一个人时，我从不告诉任何人他们的名字。看起来就像是放弃了他们的一部分。你知道我多么喜欢保密。这是唯一能让现代生活对我们来说变得精彩或神秘的东西。最平常的事情，只要把它隐藏起来，也是令人愉快的。当我离开城镇时，我从不告诉我的人我要去哪里。如果我这样做，我就会失去所有的快乐。我敢说，这是一个愚蠢的习惯，但不知何故，它似​​乎给一个人的生活带来了很多浪漫。我想你认为我对此非常愚蠢吧？

‘Not at all,’ answered Lord Henry, laying his hand upon his shoulder; ‘not at all, my dear Basil. You seem to forget that I am married, and the one charm of marriage is that it makes a life of deception necessary for both parties. I never know where my wife is, and my wife never knows what I am doing. When we meet,—we do meet occasionally, when we dine out together, or go down to the duke’s,— we tell each other the most absurd stories with the most serious faces. My wife is very good at it,—much better, in fact, than I am. She never gets confused over her dates, and I always do. But when she does find me out, she makes no row at all. I sometimes wish she would; but she merely laughs at me.’
“一点也不，”亨利勋爵把手放在他的肩上回答道。 “一点也不，我亲爱的巴兹尔。你似乎忘记了我已经结婚了，而婚姻的魅力就在于它让双方都必须过着欺骗的生活。我永远不知道我的妻子在哪里，我的妻子也永远不知道我在做什么。当我们见面时——我们偶尔会见面，一起出去吃饭，或者去公爵家——我们用最严肃的表情互相讲述最荒唐的故事。我的妻子非常擅长——事实上，比我好得多。她从来不会对约会感到困惑，我也总是这样。但当她发现我时，她根本没有吵架。有时我希望她能这么做；但她只是嘲笑我。

‘I hate the way you talk about your married life, Harry,’ said Basil Hallward, shaking his hand off, and strolling towards the door that led into the garden. ‘I believe that you are really a very good husband, but that you are thoroughly ashamed of your own virtues. You are an extraordinary fellow. You never say a moral thing, and you never do a wrong thing. Your cynicism is simply a pose.’
“我讨厌你谈论婚姻生活的方式，哈利，”巴兹尔·霍华德说，甩开他的手，朝通向花园的门走去。 ‘我相信你确实是一个很好的丈夫，但你却对自己的美德感到羞耻。你是一个非凡的人。你从不说道德的话，也从不做错事。你的愤世嫉俗只是一种姿态。

‘Being natural is simply a pose, and the most irritating pose I know,’ cried Lord Henry, laughing; and the two young men went out into the garden together, and for a time they did not speak.
“保持自然只是一种姿势，而且是我所知道的最令人恼火的姿势，”亨利勋爵笑着喊道。两个年轻人一起走到花园里，一时没有说话。

After a long pause Lord Henry pulled out his watch. ‘I am afraid I must be going, Basil,’ he murmured, ‘and before I go I insist on your answering a question I put to you some time ago.’
停顿了很长一段时间后，亨利勋爵拿出了他的手表。 “恐怕我得走了，巴兹尔，”他低声说道，“在我走之前，我坚持要求你回答我之前向你提出的一个问题。”

‘What is that?’ asked Basil Hallward, keeping his eyes fixed on the ground.
“那是什么？”巴兹尔·霍华德问道，眼睛盯着地面。

‘You know quite well.’
“你很清楚。”

‘I do not, Harry.’
“我不知道，哈利。”

‘Well, I will tell you what it is.’
“好吧，我会告诉你那是什么。”

‘Please don’t.’
“请不要。”

‘I must. I want you to explain to me why you won’t exhibit Dorian Gray’s picture. I want the real reason.’
'我必须。我想让你向我解释一下为什么你不展出多里安·格雷的照片。我想要真正的原因。

‘I told you the real reason.’
“我告诉过你真正的原因了。”

‘No, you did not. You said it was because there was too much of yourself in it. Now, that is childish.’
'不，你没有。你说那是因为里面有太多你自己。现在看来，这太幼稚了。

‘Harry,’ said Basil Hallward, looking him straight in the face, ‘every portrait that is painted with feeling is a portrait of the artist, not of the sitter. The sitter is merely the accident, the occasion. It is not he who is revealed by the painter; it is rather the painter who, on the colored canvas, reveals himself. The reason I will not exhibit this picture is that I am afraid that I have shown with it the secret of my own soul.’
“哈利，”巴兹尔·霍华德直视着他的脸说道，“每一幅充满感情的肖像画都是艺术家的肖像，而不是画中人的肖像。模特只是一个意外、一个场合。画家所揭示的不是他，而是他。相反，画家在彩色画布上展现了自己。我之所以不展示这幅画，是因为我担心它暴露了我自己灵魂的秘密。

Lord Harry laughed. ‘And what is that?’ he asked.
哈利勋爵笑了。 “那是什么？”他问道。

‘I will tell you,’ said Hallward; and an expression of perplexity came over his face.
“我会告诉你，”霍尔华德说。他的脸上露出了困惑的表情。

‘I am all expectation, Basil,’ murmured his companion, looking at him.
“我满怀期待，巴兹尔，”他的同伴看着他，低声说道。

‘Oh, there is really very little to tell, Harry,’ answered the young painter; ‘and I am afraid you will hardly understand it. Perhaps you will hardly believe it.’
“哦，哈利，真的没什么可说的，”年轻画家回答道。 ‘我担心你很难理解它。也许你很难相信。

Lord Henry smiled, and, leaning down, plucked a pink-petalled daisy from the grass, and examined it. ‘I am quite sure I shall understand it,’ he replied, gazing intently at the little golden white-feathered disk, ‘and I can believe anything, provided that it is incredible.’
亨利勋爵微笑着，俯下身子，从草丛中摘下一朵粉红色花瓣的雏菊，审视着它。 “我确信我会理解它，”他回答道，专注地凝视着金色的白色羽毛小圆盘，“我可以相信任何事情，只要它是令人难以置信的。”

The wind shook some blossoms from the trees, and the heavy lilac blooms, with their clustering stars, moved to and fro in the languid air. A grasshopper began to chirrup in the grass, and a long thin dragon-fly floated by on its brown gauze wings. Lord Henry felt as if he could hear Basil Hallward’s heart beating, and he wondered what was coming.
风吹落了树上的一些花朵，沉重的丁香花带着簇拥的星星，在慵懒的空气中来回移动。一只蚱蜢开始在草丛中叽叽喳喳地叫着，一只细长的蜻蜓用棕色的纱翅飞过。亨利勋爵感觉自己仿佛能听到巴兹尔·霍华德的心跳声，他想知道接下来会发生什么。

‘Well, this is incredible,’ repeated Hallward, rather bitterly,— ‘incredible to me at times. I don’t know what it means. The story is simply this. Two months ago I went to a crush at Lady Brandon’s. You know we poor painters have to show ourselves in society from time to time, just to remind the public that we are not savages. With an evening coat and a white tie, as you told me once, anybody, even a stock-broker, can gain a reputation for being civilized. Well, after I had been in the room about ten minutes, talking to huge overdressed dowagers and tedious Academicians, I suddenly became conscious that some one was looking at me. I turned half-way round, and saw Dorian Gray for the first time. When our eyes met, I felt that I was growing pale. A curious instinct of terror came over me. I knew that I had come face to face with some one whose mere personality was so fascinating that, if I allowed it to do so, it would absorb my whole nature, my whole soul, my very art itself. I did not want any external influence in my life. You know yourself, Harry, how independent I am by nature. My father destined me for the army. I insisted on going to Oxford. Then he made me enter my name at the Middle Temple. Before I had eaten half a dozen dinners I gave up the Bar, and announced my intention of becoming a painter. I have always been my own master; had at least always been so, till I met Dorian Gray. Then—But I don’t know how to explain it to you. Something seemed to tell me that I was on the verge of a terrible crisis in my life. I had a strange feeling that Fate had in store for me exquisite joys and exquisite sorrows. I knew that if I spoke to Dorian I would become absolutely devoted to him, and that I ought not to speak to him. I grew afraid, and turned to quit the room. It was not conscience that made me do so: it was cowardice. I take no credit to myself for trying to escape.’
“嗯，这太不可思议了，”霍尔华德相当痛苦地重复道，“有时对我来说难以置信。”我不知道这意味着什么。故事简单来说就是这样。两个月前，我去布兰登夫人家暗恋过。要知道，我们这些可怜的画家，时不时要在社会上展现自己，只是为了提醒公众，我们不是野蛮人。正如您曾经告诉我的那样，穿着晚礼服和白色领带，任何人，甚至是股票经纪人，都可以获得文明的声誉。好吧，当我在房间里呆了大约十分钟，与衣冠楚楚的太后和乏味的院士交谈后，我突然意识到有人在看着我。我转了半圈，第一次看到了道连·格雷。当我们四目相对时，我感觉自己的脸色变得苍白。一种奇怪的恐惧本能袭上我的心头。我知道我遇到了一个人，他的个性是如此迷人，如果我允许它这样做，它就会吸收我的整个本性，我的整个灵魂，我的艺术本身。我不想让任何外在影响我的生活。你了解你自己，哈利，我生来就是多么独立。我父亲注定我要参军。我坚持要去牛津。然后他让我在中殿输入我的名字。在我吃过六顿晚餐之前，我放弃了酒吧，并宣布了我要成为一名画家的意图。我从来都是我自己的主人；至少一直如此，直到我遇到了道林·格雷。那么——但是我不知道该怎么向你解释。似乎有什么东西告诉我，我正处于人生可怕危机的边缘。我有一种奇怪的感觉，命运为我准备了精致的欢乐和精致的悲伤。我知道，如果我和多里安说话，我就会变得绝对忠诚于他，而且我不应该和他说话。我害怕了，转身离开了房间。 促使我这样做的不是良心：而是怯懦。我并不因为自己试图逃跑而沾沾自喜。’

‘Conscience and cowardice are really the same things, Basil. Conscience is the trade-name of the firm. That is all.’
“良心和怯懦实际上是同一回事，巴兹尔。良心是公司的商标名称。就这些。'

‘I don’t believe that, Harry. However, whatever was my motive,— and it may have been pride, for I used to be very proud,—I certainly struggled to the door. There, of course, I stumbled against Lady Brandon. ‘You are not going to run away so soon, Mr. Hallward?’ she screamed out. You know her shrill horrid voice?’
“我不相信，哈利。然而，无论我的动机是什么——可能是骄傲，因为我曾经非常骄傲——我当然是挣扎着走到门口的。当然，我在那里遇到了布兰登夫人。 “你不会这么快就逃跑吧，霍尔华德先生？”她尖叫道。你知道她那尖利可怕的声音吗？

‘Yes; she is a peacock in everything but beauty,’ said Lord Henry, pulling the daisy to bits with his long, nervous fingers.
'是的; “除了美丽之外，她在一切方面都是孔雀。”亨利勋爵说道，用他修长而紧张的手指将雏菊撕成碎片。

‘I could not get rid of her. She brought me up to Royalties, and people with Stars and Garters, and elderly ladies with gigantic tiaras and hooked noses. She spoke of me as her dearest friend. I had only met her once before, but she took it into her head to lionize me. I believe some picture of mine had made a great success at the time, at least had been chattered about in the penny newspapers, which is the nineteenth-century standard of immortality. Suddenly I found myself face to face with the young man whose personality had so strangely stirred me. We were quite close, almost touching. Our eyes met again. It was mad of me, but I asked Lady Brandon to introduce me to him. Perhaps it was not so mad, after all. It was simply inevitable. We would have spoken to each other without any introduction. I am sure of that. Dorian told me so afterwards. He, too, felt that we were destined to know each other.’
‘我无法摆脱她。她把我带进了皇室，还有那些戴着星星和吊袜带的人，以及戴着巨大头饰和鹰钩鼻的老太太。她说我是她最亲爱的朋友。我以前只见过她一次，但她却把我当作偶像来崇拜我。我相信我的一些照片在当时取得了巨大的成功，至少在便士报纸上议论纷纷，这是十九世纪不朽的标准。突然，我发现自己面对面地面对着这个年轻人，他的个性如此奇怪地触动了我。我们离得很近，几乎要碰触到了。我们的目光再次相遇。我很生气，但我请布兰登夫人把我介绍给他。也许它毕竟没有那么疯狂。这简直是​​不可避免的。我们会在没有任何介绍的情况下互相交谈。我确信这一点。多里安后来告诉我的。他也觉得我们命中注定要相识。

‘And how did Lady Brandon describe this wonderful young man? I know she goes in for giving a rapid précis of all her guests. I remember her bringing me up to a most truculent and red-faced old gentleman covered all over with orders and ribbons, and hissing into my ear, in a tragic whisper which must have been perfectly audible to everybody in the room, something like ‘Sir Humpty Dumpty—you know—Afghan frontier—Russian intrigues: very successful man—wife killed by an elephant—quite inconsolable—wants to marry a beautiful American widow—everybody does nowadays—hates Mr. Gladstone—but very much interested in beetles: ask him what he thinks of Schouvaloff.’ I simply fled. I like to find out people for myself. But poor Lady Brandon treats her guests exactly as an auctioneer treats his goods. She either explains them entirely away, or tells one everything about them except what one wants to know. But what did she say about Mr. Dorian Gray?’
“布兰登夫人是如何描述这个出色的年轻人的？”我知道她喜欢快速介绍所有客人的情况。我记得她把我带到一位浑身布满命令和丝带、脾气​​暴躁、红脸的老绅士面前，对着我耳边发出嘶嘶声，声音悲惨，房间里的每个人都可以完全听到，就像“先生”。矮胖子——你知道——阿富汗边境——俄罗斯阴谋：非常成功的男人——妻子被大象杀死——非常伤心——想娶一个美丽的美国寡妇——现在每个人都这样做——讨厌格莱斯顿先生——但对甲虫非常感兴趣：问“告诉他他对舒瓦洛夫的看法。”我只是逃跑了。我喜欢为自己寻找人。但可怜的布兰登夫人对待她的客人就像拍卖师对待他的货物一样。她要么完全解释它们，要么告诉人们关于它们的一切，除了人们想知道的。但她对道林·格雷先生说了什么？

‘Oh, she murmured, ‘Charming boy—poor dear mother and I quite inseparable—engaged to be married to the same man—I mean married on the same day—how very silly of me! Quite forget what he does— afraid he—doesn’t do anything—oh, yes, plays the piano—or is it the violin, dear Mr. Gray?’ We could neither of us help laughing, and we became friends at once.’
“哦，她低声说道，‘迷人的男孩——可怜的亲爱的母亲和我形影不离——和同一个男人订婚了——我是说在同一天结婚——我真是太傻了！完全忘记他做了什么——恐怕他——什么也没做——哦，是的，弹钢琴——还是拉小提琴，亲爱的格雷先生？”我们俩都忍不住笑了，我们立刻成了朋友。 '

‘Laughter is not a bad beginning for a friendship, and it is the best ending for one,’ said Lord Henry, plucking another daisy.
“对于友谊来说，笑声并不是一个糟糕的开始，而且对于一个人来说，这也是最好的结局。”亨利勋爵一边说，一边摘下一朵雏菊。

Hallward buried his face in his hands. ‘You don’t understand what friendship is, Harry,’ he murmured,—‘or what enmity is, for that matter. You like every one; that is to say, you are indifferent to every one.’
霍尔华德将脸埋在双手中。 “你不明白什么是友谊，哈利，”他低声说道，“或者说，什么是敌意。”每一个你都喜欢；也就是说，你对每个人都漠不关心。

‘How horribly unjust of you!’ cried Lord Henry, tilting his hat back, and looking up at the little clouds that were drifting across the hollowed turquoise of the summer sky, like ravelled skeins of glossy white silk. ‘Yes; horribly unjust of you. I make a great difference between people. I choose my friends for their good looks, my acquaintances for their characters, and my enemies for their brains. A man can’t be too careful in the choice of his enemies. I have not got one who is a fool. They are all men of some intellectual power, and consequently they all appreciate me. Is that very vain of me? I think it is rather vain.’
“你真是太不公正了！”亨利勋爵喊​​道，他把帽子往后一仰，抬头看着夏日天空中空洞的绿松石般飘过的小朵云，就像一团乱糟糟的光滑的白色丝绸。 '是的;你太不公正了。我使人与人之间产生了很大的差异。我选择朋友是因为他们的外表，我的熟人是因为他们的性格，我的敌人是因为他们的头脑。一个人在选择敌人时再小心也不过分。我没有一个傻瓜。他们都是有一定智力的人，因此他们都欣赏我。我这样是不是太虚荣了？我认为这是相当徒劳的。

‘I should think it was, Harry. But according to your category I must be merely an acquaintance.’
“我想是的，哈利。但根据你的分类，我肯定只是一个熟人。”

‘My dear old Basil, you are much more than an acquaintance.’
“我亲爱的老巴兹尔，你不仅仅是一个熟人。”

‘And much less than a friend. A sort of brother, I suppose?’
‘而且比朋友还少得多。我想是某种兄弟吧？

‘Oh, brothers! I don’t care for brothers. My elder brother won’t die, and my younger brothers seem never to do anything else.’
‘哦，兄弟们！我不关心兄弟。我的哥哥不会死，而我的弟弟们似乎从来没有做过任何其他事情。

‘Harry!’
“哈利！”

‘My dear fellow, I am not quite serious. But I can’t help detesting my relations. I suppose it comes from the fact that we can’t stand other people having the same faults as ourselves. I quite sympathize with the rage of the English democracy against what they call the vices of the upper classes. They feel that drunkenness, stupidity, and immorality should be their own special property, and that if any one of us makes an ass of himself he is poaching on their preserves. When poor Southwark got into the Divorce Court, their indignation was quite magnificent. And yet I don’t suppose that ten per cent of the lower orders live correctly.’
“亲爱的朋友，我不太认真。但我情不自禁地厌恶我的亲戚。我想这是因为我们不能容忍别人和我们有同样的错误。我非常同情英国民主制度对他们所谓的上层阶级罪恶的愤怒。他们觉得酗酒、愚蠢和不道德应该是他们自己的特殊财产，如果我们中有人出丑，他就是在偷猎他们的领地。当可怜的南华克进入离婚法庭时，他们的愤慨是相当强烈的。但我不认为百分之十的下层阶级能够过上正常的生活。

‘I don’t agree with a single word that you have said, and, what is more, Harry, I don’t believe you do either.’
“我不同意你所说的任何一个字，而且，哈利，我也不相信你会同意。”

Lord Henry stroked his pointed brown beard, and tapped the toe of his patent-leather boot with a tasselled malacca cane. ‘How English you are, Basil! If one puts forward an idea to a real Englishman,— always a rash thing to do,—he never dreams of considering whether the idea is right or wrong. The only thing he considers of any importance is whether one believes it one’s self. Now, the value of an idea has nothing whatsoever to do with the sincerity of the man who expresses it. Indeed, the probabilities are that the more insincere the man is, the more purely intellectual will the idea be, as in that case it will not be colored by either his wants, his desires, or his prejudices. However, I don’t propose to discuss politics, sociology, or metaphysics with you. I like persons better than principles. Tell me more about Dorian Gray. How often do you see him?’
亨利勋爵抚摸着他尖尖的棕色胡须，用带流苏的马六甲手杖轻敲着漆皮靴子的脚趾。 “你真是英国人啊，巴兹尔！如果一个人向一个真正的英国人提出一个想法——这总是一件鲁莽的事情——他从来不会考虑这个想法是对还是错。他认为唯一重要的事情是一个人是否相信自己。现在，一个想法的价值与表达它的人的诚意无关。事实上，很可能这个人越不真诚，这个想法就越纯粹是理智的，因为在这种情况下，它不会受到他的需要、他的欲望或他的偏见的影响。不过，我不打算和你讨论政治、社会学或形而上学。我喜欢人胜过喜欢原则。告诉我更多关于道林·格雷的事。你多久见到他一次？

‘Every day. I couldn’t be happy if I didn’t see him every day. Of course sometimes it is only for a few minutes. But a few minutes with somebody one worships mean a great deal.’
'每天。如果我不能每天见到他，我就不会快乐。当然有时只是几分钟。但与崇拜的人相处几分钟意义重大。”

‘But you don’t really worship him?’
“但你并不真正崇拜他？”

‘I do.’
'我愿意。'

‘How extraordinary! I thought you would never care for anything but your painting,—your art, I should say. Art sounds better, doesn’t it?’
‘多么非凡啊！我以为你除了你的绘画之外什么都不会关心——我应该说，你的艺术。艺术听起来更好，不是吗？

‘He is all my art to me now. I sometimes think, Harry, that there are only two eras of any importance in the history of the world. The first is the appearance of a new medium for art, and the second is the appearance of a new personality for art also. What the invention of oil-painting was to the Venetians, the face of Antinoüs was to late Greek sculpture, and the face of Dorian Gray will some day be to me. It is not merely that I paint from him, draw from him, model from him. Of course I have done all that. He has stood as Paris in dainty armor, and as Adonis with huntsman’s cloak and polished boarspear. Crowned with heavy lotus-blossoms, he has sat on the prow of Adrian’s barge, looking into the green, turbid Nile. He has leaned over the still pool of some Greek woodland, and seen in the water’s silent silver the wonder of his own beauty. But he is much more to me than that. I won’t tell you that I am dissatisfied with what I have done of him, or that his beauty is such that art cannot express it. There is nothing that art cannot express, and I know that the work I have done since I met Dorian Gray is good work, is the best work of my life. But in some curious way—I wonder will you understand me?—his personality has suggested to me an entirely new manner in art, an entirely new mode of style. I see things differently, I think of them differently. I can now re-create life in a way that was hidden from me before. ‘A dream of form in days of thought,’—who is it who says that? I forget; but it is what Dorian Gray has been to me. The merely visible presence of this lad, —for he seems to me little more than a lad, though he is really over twenty,—his merely visible presence,—ah! I wonder can you realize all that that means? Unconsciously he defines for me the lines of a fresh school, a school that is to have in itself all the passion of the romantic spirit, all the perfection of the spirit that is Greek. The harmony of soul and body,—how much that is! We in our madness have separated the two, and have invented a realism that is bestial, an ideality that is void. Harry! Harry! if you only knew what Dorian Gray is to me! You remember that landscape of mine, for which Agnew offered me such a huge price, but which I would not part with? It is one of the best things I have ever done. And why is it so? Because, while I was painting it, Dorian Gray sat beside me.’
“现在他对我来说就是我的全部艺术。哈利，我有时想，世界历史上只有两个重要的时代。第一个是新的艺术媒介的出现，第二个也是新的艺术个性的出现。油画的发明对于威尼斯人来说就像安蒂诺斯的脸对于晚期希腊雕塑一样，而道林·格雷的脸有一天对于我来说也将如此。我不仅仅是向他作画、向他绘画、向他建模。当然，我已经做到了这一切。他曾像帕里斯一样穿着精致的盔甲，也像阿多尼斯一样戴着猎人斗篷和擦亮的野猪矛。他戴着沉重的莲花花冠，坐在阿德里安驳船的船头，眺望着绿色浑浊的尼罗河。他俯身在希腊林地的平静水池上，在寂静的银色水中看到了自己美丽的奇迹。但他对我来说远不止于此。我不会告诉你我对他所做的一切不满意，或者他的美丽是艺术无法表达的。没有什么是艺术无法表达的，我知道自从遇见道林·格雷以来我所做的工作都是好工作，是我一生中最好的工作。但以某种奇怪的方式——我想知道你能理解我吗？——他的个性向我暗示了一种全新的艺术方式、一种全新的风格模式。我以不同的方式看待事物，以不同的方式思考它们。我现在可以以一种以前对我隐藏的方式重新创造生活。 “思想的日子里有形式的梦想”——这句话是谁说的？我忘了;但这就是道林·格雷对我的意义。这个小伙子的唯一可见的存在，——因为在我看来，他只不过是一个小伙子，尽管他实际上已经二十多岁了，——他唯一可见的存在，——啊！我想知道你能明白这意味着什么吗？ 他无意识地为我定义了一所新学校的轮廓，一所学校本身就拥有浪漫精神的所有激情，希腊精神的所有完美。灵魂与肉体的和谐——这是多么美好啊！我们在疯狂中将两者分开，并发明了一种兽性的现实主义和一种空虚的理想主义。哈利！哈利！要是你知道道林·格雷对我来说意味着什么就好了！你还记得我的那幅风景吗？阿格纽为它开出了如此巨大的价格，但我却不愿放弃它？这是我做过的最好的事情之一。为什么会这样呢？因为，当我画它时，道林·格雷坐在我旁边。’

‘Basil, this is quite wonderful! I must see Dorian Gray.’ Hallward got up from the seat, and walked up and down the garden. After some time he came back. ‘You don’t understand, Harry,’ he said. ‘Dorian Gray is merely to me a motive in art. He is never more present in my work than when no image of him is there. He is simply a suggestion, as I have said, of a new manner. I see him in the curves of certain lines, in the loveliness and the subtleties of certain colors. That is all.’
‘巴兹尔，这真是太棒了！ “我必须去见道林·格雷。”霍尔华德从座位上站起来，在花园里来回走动。过了一会儿他回来了。 “你不明白，哈利，”他说。 “对我来说，道林·格雷只是艺术的一个动机。当没有他的形象时，他就出现在我的作品中。正如我所说，他只是一种新方式的建议。我在某些线条的曲线、某些颜色的可爱和微妙中看到了他。就这些。'

‘Then why won’t you exhibit his portrait?’
“那你为什么不展出他的肖像呢？”

‘Because I have put into it all the extraordinary romance of which, of course, I have never dared to speak to him. He knows nothing about it. He will never know anything about it. But the world might guess it; and I will not bare my soul to their shallow, prying eyes. My heart shall never be put under their microscope. There is too much of myself in the thing, Harry,—too much of myself!’
“因为我把所有非凡的浪漫都投入其中，当然，我从来不敢和他说话。他对此一无所知。他永远不会知道这件事。但世界可能会猜到；我不会在他们浅薄、窥探的目光面前暴露我的灵魂。我的心永远不会被放在他们的显微镜下。这件事里有太多我自己的影子，哈利——太多我自己的影子！

‘Poets are not so scrupulous as you are. They know how useful passion is for publication. Nowadays a broken heart will run to many editions.’
‘诗人不像你们那么谨慎。他们知道热情对于出版有多么有用。如今，一颗破碎的心将会有很多版本。

‘I hate them for it. An artist should create beautiful things, but should put nothing of his own life into them. We live in an age when men treat art as if it were meant to be a form of autobiography. We have lost the abstract sense of beauty. If I live, I will show the world what it is; and for that reason the world shall never see my portrait of Dorian Gray.’
“我因此讨厌他们。艺术家应该创造美丽的事物，但不应该将自己的生活融入其中。我们生活在一个人们将艺术视为自传形式的时代。我们已经失去了抽象的美感。如果我活着，我会向世界展示它是什么；因此，世界将永远不会看到我为道林·格雷绘制的肖像。

‘I think you are wrong, Basil, but I won’t argue with you. It is only the intellectually lost who ever argue. Tell me, is Dorian Gray very fond of you?’
“我认为你错了，巴兹尔，但我不会与你争论。只有理智上迷失的人才会争论。告诉我，道林·格雷很喜欢你吗？

Hallward considered for a few moments. ‘He likes me,’ he answered, after a pause; ‘I know he likes me. Of course I flatter him dreadfully. I find a strange pleasure in saying things to him that I know I shall be sorry for having said. I give myself away. As a rule, he is charming to me, and we walk home together from the club arm in arm, or sit in the studio and talk of a thousand things. Now and then, however, he is horribly thoughtless, and seems to take a real delight in giving me pain. Then I feel, Harry, that I have given away my whole soul to some one who treats it as if it were a flower to put in his coat, a bit of decoration to charm his vanity, an ornament for a summer’s day.’
霍尔华德考虑了一会儿。 “他喜欢我，”停顿了一下，他回答道。 ‘我知道他喜欢我。当然，我非常恭维他。当我对他说一些我知道自己会后悔的话时，我感到一种奇怪的乐趣。我放弃了我自己。一般来说，他对我来说很迷人，我们一起从俱乐部手挽着手走回家，或者坐在工作室里谈论一千件事。然而，他时不时地却表现得极其粗心，而且似乎很乐意给我带来痛苦。然后我觉得，哈利，我已经把我的整个灵魂交给了某个人，他把它当作一朵花放在他的外套里，当作一点装饰来吸引他的虚荣心，当作一个夏日的装饰品。

‘Days in summer, Basil, are apt to linger. Perhaps you will tire sooner than he will. It is a sad thing to think of, but there is no doubt that Genius lasts longer than Beauty. That accounts for the fact that we all take such pains to over-educate ourselves. In the wild struggle for existence, we want to have something that endures, and so we fill our minds with rubbish and facts, in the silly hope of keeping our place. The thoroughly well informed man,—that is the modern ideal. And the mind of the thoroughly well informed man is a dreadful thing. It is like a bric-à-brac shop, all monsters and dust, and everything priced above its proper value. I think you will tire first, all the same. Some day you will look at Gray, and he will seem to you to be a little out of drawing, or you won’t like his tone of color, or something. You will bitterly reproach him in your own heart, and seriously think that he has behaved very badly to you. The next time he calls, you will be perfectly cold and indifferent. It will be a great pity, for it will alter you. The worst of having a romance is that it leaves one so unromantic.’
“巴兹尔，夏天的日子很容易持续下去。也许你会比他更早感到疲倦。想想真是一件悲伤的事，但毫无疑问，天才比美貌更长久。这说明了我们都煞费苦心地过度教育自己。在为生存而进行的疯狂斗争中，我们希望拥有一些持久的东西，因此我们的头脑中充满了垃圾和事实，愚蠢地希望保住自己的位置。消息灵通的人——这就是现代的理想。消息灵通的人的头脑是一件可怕的事情。它就像一家小摆设商店，到处都是怪物和灰尘，所有东西的价格都高于其适当的价值。我想你会先累，尽管如此。有一天，当你看到格雷时，你会觉得他有点不适合绘画，或者你不会喜欢他的色调，或者其他什么。你会在心里狠狠地责备他，认真地认为他对你的行为很不好。下次他打电话来的时候，你就会表现得冷漠无情。这将是一个很大的遗憾，因为它会改变你。拥有浪漫的最糟糕之处在于它让一个人变得如此不浪漫。

‘Harry, don’t talk like that. As long as I live, the personality of Dorian Gray will dominate me. You can’t feel what I feel. You change too often.’
‘哈利，别这样说话。只要我还活着，道林·格雷的个性就会主宰我。你无法感受到我的感受。你改变得太频繁了。

‘Ah, my dear Basil, that is exactly why I can feel it. Those who are faithful know only the pleasures of love: it is the faithless who know love’s tragedies.’ And Lord Henry struck a light on a dainty silver case, and began to smoke a cigarette with a self-conscious and self-satisfied air, as if he had summed up life in a phrase. There was a rustle of chirruping sparrows in the ivy, and the blue cloudshadows chased themselves across the grass like swallows. How pleasant it was in the garden! And how delightful other people’s emotions were!—much more delightful than their ideas, it seemed to him. One’s own soul, and the passions of one’s friends,—those were the fascinating things in life. He thought with pleasure of the tedious luncheon that he had missed by staying so long with Basil Hallward. Had he gone to his aunt’s, he would have been sure to meet Lord Goodbody there, and the whole conversation would have been about the housing of the poor, and the necessity for model lodging-houses. It was charming to have escaped all that! As he thought of his aunt, an idea seemed to strike him. He turned to Hallward, and said, ‘My dear fellow, I have just remembered.’
“啊，亲爱的巴兹尔，这正是我能感觉到的原因。忠诚的人只知道爱情的快乐，不忠诚的人才知道爱情的悲剧。”亨利勋爵点燃了一个精致的银盒，开始抽烟，神情中带着一种不自在和自我满足的神情。仿佛他用一句话概括了人生。常春藤丛中传来麻雀的沙沙声，蓝色的云影像燕子一样在草地上追逐。在花园里是多么愉快啊！其他人的情感是多么令人愉悦啊！——在他看来，这比他们的想法更令人愉悦。一个人自己的灵魂，一个朋友的热情——这些都是生活中令人着迷的东西。他高兴地想起自己因为和巴兹尔·霍尔沃德待了这么久而错过了那顿乏味的午餐。如果他去姨妈家，他一定会在那里见到古德博迪勋爵，整个谈话都会围绕穷人的住房以及示范宿舍的必要性。逃离这一切真是太迷人了！当他想到他的姨妈时，他似乎想到了一个主意。他转向霍尔华德，说道：“亲爱的朋友，我刚刚想起来了。”

‘Remembered what, Harry?’
“记得什么，哈利？”

‘Where I heard the name of Dorian Gray.’
“我在那里听到了道林·格雷的名字。”

‘Where was it?’ asked Hallward, with a slight frown.
“它在哪儿？”霍尔华德微微皱眉问道。

‘Don’t look so angry, Basil. It was at my aunt’s, Lady Agatha’s. She told me she had discovered a wonderful young man, who was going to help her in the East End, and that his name was Dorian Gray. I am bound to state that she never told me he was good-looking. Women have no appreciation of good looks. At least, good women have not. She said that he was very earnest, and had a beautiful nature. I at once pictured to myself a creature with spectacles and lank hair, horridly freckled, and tramping about on huge feet. I wish I had known it was your friend.’
“别显得那么生气，巴兹尔。那是在我姨妈阿加莎夫人家。她告诉我她发现了一个很棒的年轻人，他将在东区帮助她，他的名字叫多里安·格雷。我必须声明，她从来没有告诉过我他长得好看。女人没有欣赏美貌的能力。至少，好女人没有。她说他很认真，而且性格很好。我立刻想象出一个戴着眼镜、头发平直、长着可怕的雀斑、用巨大的脚走来走去的生物。我希望我知道那是你的朋友。

‘I am very glad you didn’t, Harry.’
“我很高兴你没有这么做，哈利。”

‘Why?’
'为什么？'

‘I don’t want you to meet him.’
“我不想让你见到他。”

‘Mr. Dorian Gray is in the studio, sir,’ said the butler, coming into the garden.
'先生。先生，多里安·格雷在工作室里。”管家走进花园说道。

‘You must introduce me now,’ cried Lord Henry, laughing.
“你现在必须介绍我了，”亨利勋爵笑着喊道。

Basil Hallward turned to the servant, who stood blinking in the sunlight. ‘Ask Mr. Gray to wait, Parker: I will be in in a few moments.’ The man bowed, and went up the walk.
巴兹尔·霍华德转向仆​​人，仆人站在阳光下眨着眼睛。 “让格雷先生稍等一下，帕克：我一会儿就到。”那人鞠了个躬，走上人行道。

Then he looked at Lord Henry. ‘Dorian Gray is my dearest friend,’ he said. ‘He has a simple and a beautiful nature. Your aunt was quite right in what she said of him. Don’t spoil him for me. Don’t try to influence him. Your influence would be bad. The world is wide, and has many marvellous people in it. Don’t take away from me the one person that makes life absolutely lovely to me, and that gives to my art whatever wonder or charm it possesses. Mind, Harry, I trust you.’ He spoke very slowly, and the words seemed wrung out of him almost against his will.
然后他看着亨利勋爵。 “道林·格雷是我最亲爱的朋友，”他说。 “他有着简单而美丽的本性。你姨妈对他的评价是非常正确的。别为了我而宠坏他。不要试图影响他。你的影响力会很不好。世界很大，有很多优秀的人。不要从我身边夺走一个让我的生活变得绝对可爱的人，这个人给我的艺术带来了任何奇迹或魅力。请注意，哈利，我相信你。”他说得很慢，这句话似乎是在违背他意愿的情况下从他嘴里挤出来的。

‘What nonsense you talk!’ said Lord Henry, smiling, and, taking Hallward by the arm, he almost led him into the house.
“你胡说八道！”亨利勋爵微笑着说，拉着霍尔华德的胳膊，差点把他带进屋里。

Chapter II
第二章

As they entered they saw Dorian Gray. He was seated at the piano, with his back to them, turning over the pages of a volume of Schumann’s ‘Forest Scenes.’ ‘You must lend me these, Basil,’ he cried. ‘I want to learn them. They are perfectly charming.’
当他们进去时，他们看到了道林·格雷。他坐在钢琴前，背对着他们，翻着舒曼的《森林场景》一卷。“你必须借给我这些，巴兹尔，”他喊道。 ‘我想学习他们。他们非常迷人。

‘That entirely depends on how you sit to-day, Dorian.’
“这完全取决于你今天的坐姿，多里安。”

‘Oh, I am tired of sitting, and I don’t want a life-sized portrait of myself,’ answered the lad, swinging round on the music-stool, in a wilful, petulant manner. When he caught sight of Lord Henry, a faint blush colored his cheeks for a moment, and he started up. ‘I beg your pardon, Basil, but I didn’t know you had any one with you.’
“哦，我厌倦了坐着，我不想有一张真人大小的自己的肖像。”小伙子一边回答，一边在音乐凳上摇来晃去，态度任性而任性。当他看到亨利勋爵时，脸颊瞬间泛起一丝淡淡的红晕，然后他猛地站了起来。 “请原谅，巴兹尔，但我不知道有人和你一起。”

‘This is Lord Henry Wotton, Dorian, an old Oxford friend of mine. I have just been telling him what a capital sitter you were, and now you have spoiled everything.’
“这是亨利·沃顿勋爵，多里安，我在牛津的一位老朋友。我刚刚告诉他你是个多么大的保姆，现在你却把一切都毁了。”

‘You have not spoiled my pleasure in meeting you, Mr. Gray,’ said Lord Henry, stepping forward and shaking him by the hand. ‘My aunt has often spoken to me about you. You are one of her favorites, and, I am afraid, one of her victims also.’
“格雷先生，你并没有破坏我见到你的荣幸，”亨利勋爵说着，走上前去，握住了他的手。 “我姨妈经常跟我说起你。你是她最喜欢的人之一，恐怕也是她的受害者之一。

‘I am in Lady Agatha’s black books at present,’ answered Dorian, with a funny look of penitence. ‘I promised to go to her club in Whitechapel with her last Tuesday, and I really forgot all about it. We were to have played a duet together,—three duets, I believe. I don’t know what she will say to me. I am far too frightened to call.’
“我现在在阿加莎女士的黑名单里。”多里安回答道，脸上带着一种滑稽的悔罪表情。 “上周二我答应和她一起去白教堂的俱乐部，但我真的把这件事忘了。我们本来要一起演奏一首二重唱——我想是三首二重唱。我不知道她会对我说什么。我太害怕了，不敢打电话。

‘Oh, I will make your peace with my aunt. She is quite devoted to you. And I don’t think it really matters about your not being there. The audience probably thought it was a duet. When Aunt Agatha sits down to the piano she makes quite enough noise for two people.’
“噢，我会让你和我姨妈和解的。”她对你非常忠诚。我认为你不在场并不重要。观众可能以为这是二重唱。当阿加莎姨妈坐在钢琴前时，她发出的声音足够两个人听了。

‘That is very horrid to her, and not very nice to me,’ answered Dorian, laughing.
“这对她来说非常可怕，对我来说也不太好，”多里安笑着回答。

Lord Henry looked at him. Yes, he was certainly wonderfully handsome, with his finely-curved scarlet lips, his frank blue eyes, his crisp gold hair. There was something in his face that made one trust him at once. All the candor of youth was there, as well as all youth’s passionate purity. One felt that he had kept himself unspotted from the world. No wonder Basil Hallward worshipped him. He was made to be worshipped.
亨利勋爵看着他。是的，他确实非常英俊，有着精致的猩红色嘴唇、坦率的蓝眼睛和清爽的金色头发。他脸上有一种让人立刻信任他的东西。青春的率真，青春的热情，纯真都在那里。人们感觉他一直保持着与世隔绝的状态。难怪巴兹尔·霍尔沃德崇拜他。他生来就是为了被崇拜的。

‘You are too charming to go in for philanthropy, Mr. Gray,—far too charming.’ And Lord Henry flung himself down on the divan, and opened his cigarette-case.
“你太迷人了，不适合从事慈善事业，格雷先生——太迷人了。”亨利勋爵一屁股坐在沙发上，打开了烟盒。

Hallward had been busy mixing his colors and getting his brushes ready. He was looking worried, and when he heard Lord Henry’s last remark he glanced at him, hesitated for a moment, and then said, ‘Harry, I want to finish this picture to-day. Would you think it awfully rude of me if I asked you to go away?’
霍尔华德一直忙着混合颜色并准备画笔。他看上去很担心，当他听到亨利勋爵最后一句话时，他看了他一眼，犹豫了一会儿，然后说：“哈利，我今天想完成这幅画。”如果我让你走开，你会觉得我很无礼吗？

Lord Henry smiled, and looked at Dorian Gray. ‘Am I to go, Mr. Gray?’ he asked.
亨利勋爵微笑着，看着道林·格雷。 “我要走了吗，格雷先生？”他问。

‘Oh, please don’t, Lord Henry. I see that Basil is in one of his sulky moods; and I can’t bear him when he sulks. Besides, I want you to tell me why I should not go in for philanthropy.’
“哦，请不要这样，亨利勋爵。我看到巴兹尔正处于一种闷闷不乐的情绪中。当他生闷气时我无法忍受他。此外，我想让你告诉我为什么我不应该从事慈善事业。

‘I don’t know that I shall tell you that, Mr. Gray. But I certainly will not run away, now that you have asked me to stop. You don’t really mind, Basil, do you? You have often told me that you liked your sitters to have some one to chat to.’
“我不知道该不该告诉你，格雷先生。但既然你已经让我停下来了，我当然不会逃跑。你真的不介意，巴兹尔，是吗？你经常告诉我，你喜欢你的保姆有一个可以聊天的人。

Hallward bit his lip. ‘If Dorian wishes it, of course you must stay. Dorian’s whims are laws to everybody, except himself.’
霍尔华德咬着嘴唇。 “如果多里安愿意，你当然必须留下来。多里安的突发奇想对每个人来说都是法律，除了他自己。

Lord Henry took up his hat and gloves. ‘You are very pressing, Basil, but I am afraid I must go. I have promised to meet a man at the Orleans.—Good-by, Mr. Gray. Come and see me some afternoon in Curzon Street. I am nearly always at home at five o’clock. Write to me when you are coming. I should be sorry to miss you.’
亨利勋爵拿起他的帽子和手套。 “你的压力很大，巴兹尔，但恐怕我必须走了。我答应在奥尔良会见一个人。——再见，格雷先生。某个下午来寇松街见我。我几乎总是五点钟就在家。你来的时候给我写信。我应该为想念你而感到遗憾。

‘Basil,’ cried Dorian Gray, ‘if Lord Henry goes I shall go too. You never open your lips while you are painting, and it is horribly dull standing on a platform and trying to look pleasant. Ask him to stay. I insist upon it.’
“巴兹尔，”道连·格雷喊道，“如果亨利勋爵去，我也去。”画画时你永远不会张开嘴唇，站在讲台上试图让自己看起来很愉快是非常乏味的。请他留下来。我坚持这样做。

‘Stay, Harry, to oblige Dorian, and to oblige me,’ said Hallward, gazing intently at his picture. ‘It is quite true, I never talk when I am working, and never listen either, and it must be dreadfully tedious for my unfortunate sitters. I beg you to stay.’
“留下来，哈利，为了满足多里安的要求，也为了满足我的要求，”霍尔华德说，专注地凝视着他的照片。 “确实如此，我工作时从不说话，也从不听，这对于我不幸的保姆来说一定是非常乏味的。我求你留下来。

‘But what about my man at the Orleans?’
“但是我在奥尔良的人呢？”

Hallward laughed. ‘I don’t think there will be any difficulty about that. Sit down again, Harry.—And now, Dorian, get up on the platform, and don’t move about too much, or pay any attention to what Lord Henry says. He has a very bad influence over all his friends, with the exception of myself.’
霍尔华德笑了。 “我认为这不会有任何困难。再坐下，哈利。——现在，多里安，站到讲台上，不要走动太多，也不要注意亨利勋爵所说的话。他对他所有的朋友都有非常坏的影响，除了我自己。”

Dorian stepped up on the dais, with the air of a young Greek martyr, and made a little moue of discontent to Lord Henry, to whom he had rather taken a fancy. He was so unlike Hallward. They made a delightful contrast. And he had such a beautiful voice. After a few moments he said to him, ‘Have you really a very bad influence, Lord Henry? As bad as Basil says?’
多里安以一位年轻的希腊烈士的姿态走上讲台，对他颇为喜欢的亨利勋爵略显不满。他与霍尔华德很不一样。他们形成了令人愉快的对比。他的声音如此美妙。过了一会儿，他对他说：“亨利勋爵，你的影响真的很坏吗？”真像巴兹尔说的那么糟糕吗？

‘There is no such thing as a good influence, Mr. Gray. All influence is immoral,—immoral from the scientific point of view.’
“没有所谓的良好影响力，格雷先生。所有的影响都是不道德的——从科学的角度来看都是不道德的。”

‘Why?’
'为什么？'

‘Because to influence a person is to give him one’s own soul. He does not think his natural thoughts, or burn with his natural passions. His virtues are not real to him. His sins, if there are such things as sins, are borrowed. He becomes an echo of some one else’s music, an actor of a part that has not been written for him. The aim of life is self-development. To realize one’s nature perfectly,—that is what each of us is here for. People are afraid of themselves, nowadays. They have forgotten the highest of all duties, the duty that one owes to one’s self. Of course they are charitable. They feed the hungry, and clothe the beggar. But their own souls starve, and are naked. Courage has gone out of our race. Perhaps we never really had it. The terror of society, which is the basis of morals, the terror of God, which is the secret of religion,—these are the two things that govern us. And yet—’
‘因为影响一个人就是给他自己的灵魂。他不思考他自然的想法，也不燃烧他自然的激情。他的美德对他来说并不真实。他的罪孽，如果有罪孽的话，也是借来的。他成为别人音乐的回声，成为一个不是为他写的角色的演员。人生的目的是自我发展。完美地实现自己的本性——这就是我们每个人存在的目的。如今，人们都害怕自己。他们忘记了所有责任中最高的，即一个人对自己负有的责任。当然，他们是慈善家。他们为饥饿者提供食物，为乞丐提供衣服。但他们自己的灵魂却在挨饿，赤身露体。勇气已经从我们的种族中消失了。也许我们从来没有真正拥有过它。对社会的恐惧是道德的基础，对上帝的恐惧是宗教的秘密——这两件事统治着我们。但是-'

‘Just turn your head a little more to the right, Dorian, like a good boy,’ said Hallward, deep in his work, and conscious only that a look had come into the lad’s face that he had never seen there before.
“把你的头再向右转一点，多里安，像个好孩子一样，”霍尔华德说，他正在埋头工作，只意识到这小伙子脸上出现了一种他以前从未见过的表情。

‘And yet,’ continued Lord Henry, in his low, musical voice, and with that graceful wave of the hand that was always so characteristic of him, and that he had even in his Eton days, ‘I believe that if one man were to live his life out fully and completely, were to give form to every feeling, expression to every thought, reality to every dream,—I believe that the world would gain such a fresh impulse of joy that we would forget all the maladies of mediaevalism, and return to the Hellenic ideal,— to something finer, richer, than the Hellenic ideal, it may be. But the bravest man among us is afraid of himself. The mutilation of the savage has its tragic survival in the self-denial that mars our lives. We are punished for our refusals. Every impulse that we strive to strangle broods in the mind, and poisons us. The body sins once, and has done with its sin, for action is a mode of purification. Nothing remains then but the recollection of a pleasure, or the luxury of a regret. The only way to get rid of a temptation is to yield to it. Resist it, and your soul grows sick with longing for the things it has forbidden to itself, with desire for what its monstrous laws have made monstrous and unlawful. It has been said that the great events of the world take place in the brain. It is in the brain, and the brain only, that the great sins of the world take place also. You, Mr. Gray, you yourself, with your rose-red youth and your rose-white boyhood, you have had passions that have made you afraid, thoughts that have filled you with terror, day-dreams and sleeping dreams whose mere memory might stain your cheek with shame—’
“然而，”亨利勋爵继续说道，他低沉而悦耳的声音，以及他一直以来所特有的优雅的挥手动作，甚至在伊顿公学的日子里也是如此，“我相信，如果一个人充分、彻底地活出自己的一生，让每一种感觉都具体化，每一个思想都得到表达，每一个梦想都变得现实——我相信世界会获得如此新鲜的喜悦冲动，我们会忘记中世纪的所有弊病。 ，然后回到希腊理想——也许是比希腊理想更美好、更丰富的东西。但我们当中最勇敢的人却害怕自己。野蛮人的残害在玷污我们生活的自我否定中悲剧性地存在着。我们因拒绝而受到惩罚。我们竭力压制的每一种冲动都会在我们的心灵中滋生，并毒害我们。身体犯了一次罪，就已经摆脱了罪，因为行动是净化的一种方式。那时，除了快乐的回忆或遗憾的奢华之外，什么也没有留下。摆脱诱惑的唯一方法就是屈服于它。抗拒它，你的灵魂就会因渴望那些被它自己禁止的事物而生病，渴望那些被它的可怕的法律变得可怕和非法的东西。有人说，世界上的重大事件都发生在大脑中。世界上的大罪也发生在大脑中，而且只发生在大脑中。你，格雷先生，你自己，在你玫瑰红的青春和你玫瑰白的少年时代，你曾有过让你害怕的激情，让你充满恐惧的思想，白日梦和睡梦，仅凭记忆就可能让你的脸颊沾满羞耻——”

‘Stop!’ murmured Dorian Gray, ‘stop! you bewilder me. I don’t know what to say. There is some answer to you, but I cannot find it. Don’t speak. Let me think, or, rather, let me try not to think.’
“住手！”道林·格雷低声说道，“住手！你让我困惑。我不知道该说些什么。你有一些答案，但我找不到。别说话。让我思考，或者更确切地说，让我尽量不去思考。

For nearly ten minutes he stood there motionless, with parted lips, and eyes strangely bright. He was dimly conscious that entirely fresh impulses were at work within him, and they seemed to him to have come really from himself. The few words that Basil’s friend had said to him—words spoken by chance, no doubt, and with wilful paradox in them—had yet touched some secret chord, that had never been touched before, but that he felt was now vibrating and throbbing to curious pulses.
将近十分钟，他一动不动地站在那里，嘴唇张开，眼睛异常明亮。他隐隐约约地意识到，一种全新的冲动正在他体内发挥作用，而且在他看来，这些冲动确实来自于他自己。巴兹尔的朋友对他说过的几句话——毫无疑问，这些话是偶然说的，而且其中还带有故意的悖论——却触动了某种秘密的心弦，这种心弦以前从未被触动过，但他觉得现在正在振动和悸动。好奇的脉冲。

Music had stirred him like that. Music had troubled him many times. But music was not articulate. It was not a new world, but rather a new chaos, that it created in us. Words! Mere words! How terrible they were! How clear, and vivid, and cruel! One could not escape from them. And yet what a subtle magic there was in them! They seemed to be able to give a plastic form to formless things, and to have a music of their own as sweet as that of viol or of lute. Mere words! Was there anything so real as words?
音乐让他如此激动。音乐曾多次困扰他。但音乐并不清晰。它在我们身上创造的不是一个新世界，而是一个新的混乱。字！仅仅是言语而已！他们是多么可怕啊！多么清晰、生动、残酷！人无法逃离他们。然而它们身上蕴含着多么微妙的魔力啊！他们似乎能够赋予无形的事物以可塑的形式，并拥有自己的音乐，如小提琴或琵琶的音乐一样甜美。仅仅是言语而已！还有什么比言语更真实的吗？

Yes; there had been things in his boyhood that he had not understood. He understood them now. Life suddenly became fiery-colored to him. It seemed to him that he had been walking in fire. Why had he not known it?
是的;在他的童年时期，有些事情是他无法理解的。他现在明白了。生活对他来说突然变得火热起来。他觉得自己仿佛行走在火中。为什么他不知道呢？

Lord Henry watched him, with his sad smile. He knew the precise psychological moment when to say nothing. He felt intensely interested. He was amazed at the sudden impression that his words had produced, and, remembering a book that he had read when he was sixteen, which had revealed to him much that he had not known before, he wondered whether Dorian Gray was passing through the same experience. He had merely shot an arrow into the air. Had it hit the mark? How fascinating the lad was!
亨利勋爵看着他，脸上带着悲伤的微笑。他知道什么时候该不说话的确切心理时刻。他感到非常感兴趣。他对自己的话突然产生的印象感到惊讶，并且想起他十六岁时读过的一本书，这本书向他揭示了许多他以前不知道的事情，他想知道道林格雷是否正在经历同样的事情。经验。他只是向空中射出了一支箭。它击中目标了吗？这小伙子多么迷人啊！

Hallward painted away with that marvellous bold touch of his, that had the true refinement and perfect delicacy that come only from strength. He was unconscious of the silence.
霍尔华德以他那奇妙而大胆的笔触进行绘画，这种笔触具有真正的精致和完美的细腻，只有来自力量。他没有意识到这片寂静。

‘Basil, I am tired of standing,’ cried Dorian Gray, suddenly. ‘I must go out and sit in the garden. The air is stifling here.’
“巴兹尔，我厌倦了站着。”道林·格雷突然喊道。 “我必须出去坐在花园里。这里的空气令人窒息。

‘My dear fellow, I am so sorry. When I am painting, I can’t think of anything else. But you never sat better. You were perfectly still. And I have caught the effect I wanted,—the half-parted lips, and the bright look in the eyes. I don’t know what Harry has been saying to you, but he has certainly made you have the most wonderful expression. I suppose he has been paying you compliments. You mustn’t believe a word that he says.’
‘我亲爱的朋友，我很抱歉。当我画画的时候，我无法思考其他事情。但你从来没有坐得更好。你一动不动。我已经捕捉到了我想要的效果——半张的嘴唇和明亮的眼睛。我不知道哈利对你说了些什么，但他确实让你有了最美妙的表情。我想他一直在恭维你。你不能相信他说的任何一个字。

‘He has certainly not been paying me compliments. Perhaps that is the reason I don’t think I believe anything he has told me.’
“他当然没有赞美我。也许这就是我认为我不相信他告诉我的任何事情的原因。

‘You know you believe it all,’ said Lord Henry, looking at him with his dreamy, heavy-lidded eyes. ‘I will go out to the garden with you. It is horridly hot in the studio.—Basil, let us have something iced to drink, something with strawberries in it.’
“你知道你相信这一切，”亨利勋爵说道，用他那双眼皮厚重的梦幻般的眼睛看着他。 ‘我要和你一起去花园。工作室里太热了。——巴兹尔，我们来点冰镇的饮料吧，里面有草莓的。”

‘Certainly, Harry. Just touch the bell, and when Parker comes I will tell him what you want. I have got to work up this background, so I will join you later on. Don’t keep Dorian too long. I have never been in better form for painting than I am to-day. This is going to be my masterpiece. It is my masterpiece as it stands.’
“当然，哈利。只需按一下门铃，帕克来时我会告诉他你想要什么。我必须处理这个背景，所以我稍后会加入你。不要让多里安呆太久。我从来没有像今天这样处于更好的绘画状态。这将是我的杰作。这是我的杰作。

Lord Henry went out to the garden, and found Dorian Gray burying his face in the great cool lilac-blossoms, feverishly drinking in their perfume as if it had been wine. He came close to him, and put his hand upon his shoulder. ‘You are quite right to do that,’ he murmured. ‘Nothing can cure the soul but the senses, just as nothing can cure the senses but the soul.’
亨利勋爵走到花园里，发现道连·格雷把脸埋在凉爽的紫丁香花丛中，狂热地喝着它们的香水，就像喝了酒一样。他走到他身边，把手搭在他的肩上。 “你这样做是完全正确的，”他低声说道。 “除了感官之外，没有什么可以治愈灵魂，就像除了灵魂之外，没有什么可以治愈感官一样。”

The lad started and drew back. He was bareheaded, and the leaves had tossed his rebellious curls and tangled all their gilded threads. There was a look of fear in his eyes, such as people have when they are suddenly awakened. His finely-chiselled nostrils quivered, and some hidden nerve shook the scarlet of his lips and left them trembling.
小伙子吓了一跳，又退了回去。他光着头，树叶掀起了他叛逆的卷发，缠结了所有的镀金线。他的眼中充满了恐惧，就像人突然醒来时的恐惧一样。他轮廓分明的鼻孔颤抖着，某种隐藏的神经震动着他猩红的嘴唇，让它们颤抖起来。

‘Yes,’ continued Lord Henry, ‘that is one of the great secrets of life,— to cure the soul by means of the senses, and the senses by means of the soul. You are a wonderful creature. You know more than you think you know, just as you know less than you want to know.’
“是的，”亨利勋爵继续说道，“这是生命的伟大秘密之一——通过感官来治愈灵魂，通过灵魂来治愈感官。”你是一个奇妙的生物。你知道的比你认为你知道的多，就像你知道的比你想知道的少。

Dorian Gray frowned and turned his head away. He could not help liking the tall, graceful young man who was standing by him. His romantic olive-colored face and worn expression interested him. There was something in his low, languid voice that was absolutely fascinating. His cool, white, flower-like hands, even, had a curious charm. They moved, as he spoke, like music, and seemed to have a language of their own. But he felt afraid of him, and ashamed of being afraid. Why had it been left for a stranger to reveal him to himself? He had known Basil Hallward for months, but the friendship between then had never altered him. Suddenly there had come some one across his life who seemed to have disclosed to him life’s mystery. And, yet, what was there to be afraid of? He was not a school-boy, or a girl. It was absurd to be frightened.
道连·格雷皱起眉头，转过头去。他情不自禁地喜欢上了站在自己身边的这个身材高大、风度翩翩的年轻人。他浪漫的橄榄色脸庞和疲惫的表情引起了他的兴趣。他低沉而慵懒的声音里有一种绝对令人着迷的东西。他那冰冷、洁白、如花般的双手，甚至还带着一种奇异的魅力。当他说话时，它们就像音乐一样移动，似乎有自己的语言。但他感到害怕他，并为害怕而感到羞耻。为什么要让一个陌生人向自己透露他的情况？他认识巴兹尔·霍尔沃德已有几个月了，但那时的友谊从未改变过他。突然间，他的生命中出现了一个人，似乎向他揭示了生命的奥秘。然而，有什么可害怕的呢？他既不是男生，也不是女孩。害怕是荒谬的。

‘Let us go and sit in the shade,’ said Lord Henry. ‘Parker has brought out the drinks, and if you stay any longer in this glare you will be quite spoiled, and Basil will never paint you again. You really must not let yourself become sunburnt. It would be very unbecoming to you.’
“我们去坐在阴凉处吧，”亨利勋爵说道。 “帕克已经把饮料端了出来，如果你再呆在这种强光下，你就会被宠坏了，巴兹尔再也不会画你了。”你真的不能让自己被晒伤。这对你来说是非常不合适的。

‘What does it matter?’ cried Dorian, laughing, as he sat down on the seat at the end of the garden.
“这有什么关系？”多里安在花园尽头的座位上坐下，笑着喊道。

‘It should matter everything to you, Mr. Gray.’
“这对你来说应该很重要，格雷先生。”

‘Why?’
'为什么？'

‘Because you have now the most marvellous youth, and youth is the one thing worth having.’
“因为你现在拥有最美妙的青春，而青春是最值得拥有的东西。”

‘I don’t feel that, Lord Henry.’
“我没有这种感觉，亨利勋爵。”

‘No, you don’t feel it now. Some day, when you are old and wrinkled and ugly, when thought has seared your forehead with its lines, and passion branded your lips with its hideous fires, you will feel it, you will feel it terribly. Now, wherever you go, you charm the world. Will it always be so?
‘不，你现在感觉不到了。有一天，当你老了，满脸皱纹，丑陋不堪，当思想用它的纹路灼伤你的额头，当激情用它可怕的火焰烙印你的嘴唇时，你会感觉到它，你会感觉到它非常可怕。现在，无论你走到哪里，你都会让世界着迷。会一直这样吗？

‘You have a wonderfully beautiful face, Mr. Gray. Don’t frown. You have. And Beauty is a form of Genius,—is higher, indeed, than Genius, as it needs no explanation. It is one of the great facts of the world, like sunlight, or spring-time, or the reflection in dark waters of that silver shell we call the moon. It cannot be questioned. It has its divine right of sovereignty. It makes princes of those who have it. You smile? Ah! when you have lost it you won’t smile.
“你有一张非常美丽的脸，格雷先生。别皱眉。你有。美是天才的一种形式，确实比天才更高，因为它不需要解释。它是世界上最伟大的事实之一，就像阳光、春天，或者我们称之为月亮的银色贝壳在黑暗水中的倒影一样。这是不容质疑的。它有其神圣的主权权利。它使拥有它的人成为王子。你微笑吗？啊!当你失去它时，你就不会微笑。

‘People say sometimes that Beauty is only superficial. That may be so. But at least it is not so superficial as Thought. To me, Beauty is the wonder of wonders. It is only shallow people who do not judge by appearances. The true mystery of the world is the visible, not the invisible.
人们有时说美丽只是肤浅的。也许是这样。但至少它不像思想那么肤浅。对我来说，美是奇迹中的奇迹。只有肤浅的人才不以貌取人。世界的真正奥秘是可见的，而不是不可见的。

‘Yes, Mr. Gray, the gods have been good to you. But what the gods give they quickly take away. You have only a few years in which really to live. When your youth goes, your beauty will go with it, and then you will suddenly discover that there are no triumphs left for you, or have to content yourself with those mean triumphs that the memory of your past will make more bitter than defeats. Every month as it wanes brings you nearer to something dreadful. Time is jealous of you, and wars against your lilies and your roses. You will become sallow, and hollow-cheeked, and dull-eyed. You will suffer horribly.
“是的，格雷先生，众神对你很好。”但诸神赐予的东西很快就会被拿走。你真正可以生活的时间只有几年。当你的青春逝去时，你的美丽也会随之消失，然后你会突然发现，你已经没有任何胜利，或者只能满足于那些卑微的胜利，而过去的记忆会让你比失败更痛苦。每个月的衰落都会让你离可怕的事情更近一步。时间嫉妒你，对你的百合和玫瑰发动战争。你会变得面色蜡黄、脸颊凹陷、目光呆滞。你会遭受可怕的痛苦。

‘Realize your youth while you have it. Don’t squander the gold of your days, listening to the tedious, trying to improve the hopeless failure, or giving away your life to the ignorant, the common, and the vulgar, which are the aims, the false ideals, of our age. Live! Live the wonderful life that is in you! Let nothing be lost upon you. Be always searching for new sensations. Be afraid of nothing.
'趁你还年轻，要充分认识它。不要浪费你的黄金岁月，听那些乏味的话，试图改善无望的失败，或者把你的生命献给无知、庸俗和庸俗，这些都是我们这个时代的目标和错误的理想。 。居住！过你内心的美好生活！不要让你失去任何东西。永远寻找新的感觉。什么都不怕。

‘A new hedonism,—that is what our century wants. You might be its visible symbol. With your personality there is nothing you could not do. The world belongs to you for a season.
“一种新的享乐主义——这就是我们这个世纪想要的。”你可能是它可见的象征。以你的个性，没有什么是你做不到的。世界属于你一个季节。

‘The moment I met you I saw that you were quite unconscious of what you really are, what you really might be. There was so much about you that charmed me that I felt I must tell you something about yourself. I thought how tragic it would be if you were wasted. For there is such a little time that your youth will last,—such a little time.
‘当我见到你的那一刻，我发现你完全没有意识到你到底是什么，你到底可能是什么。你有太多让我着迷的地方，所以我觉得我必须告诉你一些关于你自己的事情。我想如果你被浪费了那该多悲惨啊。因为你的青春能持续的时间就这么短——这么短的时间。

‘The common hill-flowers wither, but they blossom again. The laburnum will be as golden next June as it is now. In a month there will be purple stars on the clematis, and year after year the green night of its leaves will have its purple stars. But we never get back our youth. The pulse of joy that beats in us at twenty, becomes sluggish. Our limbs fail, our senses rot. We degenerate into hideous puppets, haunted by the memory of the passions of which we were too much afraid, and the exquisite temptations that we did not dare to yield to. Youth! Youth! There is absolutely nothing in the world but youth!’
‘普通的山花凋零了，又会再次绽放。明年六月金链花将会像现在一样金黄。一个月后，铁线莲上就会有紫色的星星，年复一年，它的叶子的绿夜也会有紫色的星星。但我们却再也回不去青春了。二十岁时，我们内心跳动的快乐脉搏变得迟缓。我们的四肢无力，我们的感官腐烂。我们堕落成丑陋的木偶，被我们过于害怕的激情和不敢屈服的精致诱惑的记忆所困扰。青年！青年！世界上除了青春，什么都没有！

Dorian Gray listened, open-eyed and wondering. The spray of lilac fell from his hand upon the gravel. A furry bee came and buzzed round it for a moment. Then it began to scramble all over the fretted purple of the tiny blossoms. He watched it with that strange interest in trivial things that we try to develop when things of high import make us afraid, or when we are stirred by some new emotion, for which we cannot find expression, or when some thought that terrifies us lays sudden siege to the brain and calls on us to yield. After a time it flew away. He saw it creeping into the stained trumpet of a Tyrian convolvulus. The flower seemed to quiver, and then swayed gently to and fro.
道林·格雷听着，睁大眼睛，疑惑不解。一朵丁香花从他的手中落在碎石上。一只毛茸茸的蜜蜂飞来，在它周围嗡嗡叫了一会儿。然后它开始爬满那些紫色的小花。他对这些琐碎的事情抱有一种奇怪的兴趣，当非常重要的事情让我们感到害怕时，或者当我们被某种新的情感所激起但我们无法表达出来时，或者当一些让我们害怕的想法突然出现时，我们就会试图培养这种兴趣。围攻大脑并要求我们屈服。过了一会儿，它就飞走了。他看到它爬进了提尔空心菜的污迹斑斑的喇叭里。那朵花似乎在颤抖，然后轻轻地来回摇晃。

Suddenly Hallward appeared at the door of the studio, and made frantic signs for them to come in. They turned to each other, and smiled.
突然，霍尔华德出现在工作室门口，疯狂地示意他们进来。他们相视一笑。

‘I am waiting,’ cried Hallward. ‘Do come in. The light is quite perfect, and you can bring your drinks.’
“我在等，”霍尔华德喊道。 “进来吧，光线非常好，你可以带饮料来。”

They rose up, and sauntered down the walk together. Two green-andwhite butterflies fluttered past them, and in the pear-tree at the end of the garden a thrush began to sing.
他们站起来，一起漫步在人行道上。两只绿白相间的蝴蝶从他们身边飞过，花园尽头的梨树上，一只画眉鸟开始歌唱。

‘You are glad you have met me, Mr. Gray,’ said Lord Henry, looking at him.
“格雷先生，你很高兴见到我，”亨利勋爵看着他说道。

‘Yes, I am glad now. I wonder shall I always be glad?’
‘是的，我现在很高兴。我想知道我会永远感到高兴吗？

‘Always! That is a dreadful word. It makes me shudder when I hear it. Women are so fond of using it. They spoil every romance by trying to make it last forever. It is a meaningless word, too. The only difference between a caprice and a life-long passion is that the caprice lasts a little longer.’
'总是！这是一个可怕的词。当我听到它时，它让我不寒而栗。女性非常喜欢使用它。他们试图让它永远持续下去，从而破坏了每一段浪漫。这也是一个毫无意义的词。任性和终生的激情之间的唯一区别在于，任性持续的时间更长一些。

As they entered the studio, Dorian Gray put his hand upon Lord Henry’s arm. ‘In that case, let our friendship be a caprice,’ he murmured, flushing at his own boldness, then stepped upon the platform and resumed his pose.
当他们进入工作室时，道林·格雷把手放在亨利勋爵的手臂上。 “既然如此，就让我们的友谊随心所欲吧。”他低声说道，为自己的大胆而红了脸，然后走上讲台，恢复了姿势。

Lord Henry flung himself into a large wicker arm-chair, and watched him. The sweep and dash of the brush on the canvas made the only sound that broke the stillness, except when Hallward stepped back now and then to look at his work from a distance. In the slanting beams that streamed through the open door-way the dust danced and was golden. The heavy scent of the roses seemed to brood over everything.
亨利勋爵猛地坐进一把大柳条扶手椅，看着他。画笔在画布上扫过和猛冲的声音是唯一打破寂静的声音，除了霍尔华德时不时退后一步从远处看他的作品的声音。斜梁穿过敞开的门口，灰尘在其中舞动，呈现出金色。浓重的玫瑰花香似乎笼罩着一切。

After about a quarter of an hour, Hallward stopped painting, looked for a long time at Dorian Gray, and then for a long time at the picture, biting the end of one of his huge brushes, and smiling. ‘It is quite finished,’ he cried, at last, and stooping down he wrote his name in thin vermilion letters on the left-hand corner of the canvas.
大约一刻钟后，霍尔华德停止了绘画，看了多里安·格雷很长时间，然后又看了很长时间的画，咬着一支巨大的画笔的末端，微笑着。 “一切都完成了，”最后他喊道，弯下腰，在画布的左角用细细的朱红色字母写下了自己的名字。

Lord Henry came over and examined the picture. It was certainly a wonderful work of art, and a wonderful likeness as well.
亨利勋爵走过来检查了那幅画。这无疑是一件美妙的艺术品，而且也非常相似。

‘My dear fellow, I congratulate you most warmly,’ he said.—‘Mr. Gray, come and look at yourself.’
“我亲爱的朋友，我向你表示最热烈的祝贺，”他说。格雷，过来看看你自己。”

The lad started, as if awakened from some dream. ‘Is it really finished?’ he murmured, stepping down from the platform.
小伙子吃了一惊，仿佛从梦中惊醒。 “真的结束了吗？”他低声说道，走下讲台。

‘Quite finished,’ said Hallward. ‘And you have sat splendidly today. I am awfully obliged to you.’
“完全完成了，”霍尔华德说。 ‘今天你坐得很好。我非常感谢你。

‘That is entirely due to me,’ broke in Lord Henry. ‘Isn’t it, Mr. Gray?’
“这完全是我的功劳，”亨利勋爵插话道。 “不是吗，格雷先生？”

Dorian made no answer, but passed listlessly in front of his picture and turned towards it. When he saw it he drew back, and his cheeks flushed for a moment with pleasure. A look of joy came into his eyes, as if he had recognized himself for the first time. He stood there motionless, and in wonder, dimly conscious that Hallward was speaking to him, but not catching the meaning of his words. The sense of his own beauty came on him like a revelation. He had never felt it before. Basil Hallward’s compliments had seemed to him to be merely the charming exaggerations of friendship. He had listened to them, laughed at them, forgotten them. They had not influenced his nature. Then had come Lord Henry, with his strange panegyric on youth, his terrible warning of its brevity. That had stirred him at the time, and now, as he stood gazing at the shadow of his own loveliness, the full reality of the description flashed across him. Yes, there would be a day when his face would be wrinkled and wizen, his eyes dim and colorless, the grace of his figure broken and deformed. The scarlet would pass away from his lips, and the gold steal from his hair. The life that was to make his soul would mar his body. He would become ignoble, hideous, and uncouth.
多里安没有回答，只是无精打采地从他的照片前走过，转向它。当他看到这一幕时，他向后退了一步，脸颊因喜悦而涨红了一会儿。他的眼中闪过一丝喜悦，仿佛第一次认出了自己。他一动不动地站在那里，心中感到惊奇，隐约意识到霍尔华德在对他说话，但却没听清他话里的意思。他对自己的美丽的感觉就像一种启示一样降临在他身上。他以前从未有过这种感觉。巴兹尔·霍华德的赞美在他看来只不过是对友谊的迷人夸大。他听过他们，嘲笑过他们，然后忘记了他们。它们并没有影响他的本性。然后亨利勋爵来了，他对青年人提出了奇怪的颂扬，并对青年人的短暂性提出了可怕的警告。当时这让他很激动，现在，当他站着凝视着自己可爱的影子时，描述的全部现实闪过他的脑海。是的，总有一天，他的脸会变得皱纹枯萎，双目黯淡无色，优美的身材破碎变形。猩红会从他的嘴唇上消失，金色会从他的头发上消失。塑造他灵魂的生活却会损害他的身体。他会变得卑鄙、丑陋、粗鲁。

As he thought of it, a sharp pang of pain struck like a knife across him, and made each delicate fibre of his nature quiver. His eyes deepened into amethyst, and a mist of tears came across them. He felt as if a hand of ice had been laid upon his heart.
想到这里，一阵剧痛如刀子一般袭来，让他本性的每一根脆弱的纤维都颤抖起来。他的眸子变得深邃成紫水晶色，眼里泛出泪水。他感觉好像有一只冰冷的手放在了他的心口上。

‘Don’t you like it?’ cried Hallward at last, stung a little by the lad’s silence, and not understanding what it meant.
“你不喜欢这样吗？”霍华德最后喊道，他被小伙子的沉默有点刺痛，但不明白这意味着什么。

‘Of course he likes it,’ said Lord Henry. ‘Who wouldn’t like it? It is one of the greatest things in modern art. I will give you anything you like to ask for it. I must have it.’
“他当然喜欢，”亨利勋爵说。 ‘谁会不喜欢呢？它是现代艺术中最伟大的事物之一。我会给你任何你想要的东西。我必须拥有它。

‘It is not my property, Harry.’
“这不是我的财产，哈利。”

‘Whose property is it?’
“这是谁的财产？”

‘Dorian’s, of course.’
“当然是多里安的。”

‘He is a very lucky fellow.’
“他是一个非常幸运的人。”

‘How sad it is!’ murmured Dorian Gray, with his eyes still fixed upon his own portrait. ‘How sad it is! I shall grow old, and horrid, and dreadful. But this picture will remain always young. It will never be older than this particular day of June …. If it was only the other way! If it was I who were to be always young, and the picture that were to grow old! For this—for this—I would give everything! Yes, there is nothing in the whole world I would not give!’
“多么悲伤啊！”道林·格雷低声说道，眼睛仍然盯着自己的肖像。 ‘多么悲伤啊！我会变老，变得可怕，变得可怕。但这张照片将永远保持年轻。它永远不会比六月的这个特定的日子更早......。如果只是另一种方式就好了！要是我永远年轻，而照片永远变老就好了！为了这个——为了这个——我愿意付出一切！是的，世界上没有什么是我不愿意付出的！”

‘You would hardly care for that arrangement, Basil,’ cried Lord Henry, laughing. ‘It would be rather hard lines on you.’
“巴兹尔，你几乎不会在意这样的安排，”​​亨利勋爵笑着喊道。 “这对你来说是相当强硬的。”

‘I should object very strongly, Harry.’
“我应该强烈反对，哈利。”

Dorian Gray turned and looked at him. ‘I believe you would, Basil. You like your art better than your friends. I am no more to you than a green bronze figure. Hardly as much, I dare say.’
道连·格雷转身看着他。 “我相信你会的，巴兹尔。你比你的朋友更喜欢你的艺术。我对你来说只不过是一个绿色的青铜雕像。我敢说，几乎没有那么多。

Hallward stared in amazement. It was so unlike Dorian to speak like that. What had happened? He seemed almost angry. His face was flushed and his cheeks burning.
霍尔华德惊讶地看着。多里安这样说话实在是太不像了。发生了什么事情？他看起来几乎生气了。他的脸涨得通红，脸颊火辣辣的。

‘Yes,’ he continued, ‘I am less to you than your ivory Hermes or your silver Faun. You will like them always. How long will you like me? Till I have my first wrinkle, I suppose. I know, now, that when one loses one’s good looks, whatever they may be, one loses everything. Your picture has taught me that. Lord Henry is perfectly right. Youth is the only thing worth having. When I find that I am growing old, I will kill myself.’
“是的，”他继续说道，“对你来说，我比你的象牙赫耳墨斯或银质农牧神还要小。”你会永远喜欢他们。你会喜欢我多久？我想，直到我出现第一条皱纹。我现在知道，当一个人失去了自己的美貌，无论它是什么，一个人就失去了一切。你的照片教会了我这一点。亨利勋爵是完全正确的。青春是唯一值得拥有的东西。当我发现自己变老时，我会自杀。”

Hallward turned pale, and caught his hand. ‘Dorian! Dorian!’ he cried, ‘don’t talk like that. I have never had such a friend as you, and I shall never have such another. You are not jealous of material things, are you?’
霍尔华德脸色苍白，抓住了他的手。 ‘多里安！多里安！”他喊道，“别这样说话。我从来没有过像你这样的朋友，以后也不会再有这样的朋友了。你并不嫉妒物质，是吗？

‘I am jealous of everything whose beauty does not die. I am jealous of the portrait you have painted of me. Why should it keep what I must lose? Every moment that passes takes something from me, and gives something to it. Oh, if it was only the other way! If the picture could change, and I could be always what I am now! Why did you paint it? It will mock me some day,—mock me horribly!’ The hot tears welled into his eyes; he tore his hand away, and, flinging himself on the divan, he buried his face in the cushions, as if he was praying.
“我嫉妒一切美丽不朽的事物。我嫉妒你为我画的肖像。为什么它要保留我必须失去的东西？每过去的一刻都从我身上夺走一些东西，也给予它一些东西。哦，如果是另外一种方式就好了！如果图片可以改变，我就可以永远是现在的我！你为什么画它？总有一天它会嘲笑我——嘲笑我太可怕了！”滚烫的泪水涌进了他的眼里。他松开手，倒在沙发上，把脸埋在垫子里，仿佛在祈祷。

‘This is your doing, Harry,’ said Hallward, bitterly.
“这是你干的，哈利，”霍尔华德痛苦地说。

‘My doing?’
“我在做什么？”

‘Yes, yours, and you know it.’
“是的，你的，你知道的。”

Lord Henry shrugged his shoulders. ‘It is the real Dorian Gray,— that is all,’ he answered.
亨利勋爵耸耸肩。 “这就是真正的道林·格雷，仅此而已，”他回答道。

‘It is not.’
'它不是。'

‘If it is not, what have I to do with it?’
“如果不是，那我有什么关系呢？”

‘You should have gone away when I asked you.’
“当我问你的时候，你应该走开。”

‘I stayed when you asked me.’
“当你要求我时，我留下来了。”

‘Harry, I can’t quarrel with my two best friends at once, but between you both you have made me hate the finest piece of work I have ever done, and I will destroy it. What is it but canvas and color? I will not let it come across our three lives and mar them.’
“哈利，我不能同时和我最好的两个朋友吵架，但你们让我讨厌我做过的最好的作品，我会毁掉它。除了画布和颜色之外还有什么？我不会让它影响我们三个人的生活并损害他们。

Dorian Gray lifted his golden head from the pillow, and looked at him with pallid face and tear-stained eyes, as he walked over to the deal painting-table that was set beneath the large curtained window. What was he doing there? His fingers were straying about among the litter of tin tubes and dry brushes, seeking for something. Yes, it was the long palette-knife, with its thin blade of lithe steel. He had found it at last. He was going to rip up the canvas.
道连·格雷从枕头上抬起金色的头，苍白的脸庞和泪水汪汪的眼睛看着他，然后走到挂着窗帘的大窗户下的一张大画桌前。他在那里做什么？他的手指在一堆锡管和干刷子中徘徊，寻找着什么。是的，那是一把长长的调色刀，刀刃是薄薄的，由轻钢制成。他终于找到了。他要把画布撕碎。

With a stifled sob he leaped from the couch, and, rushing over to Hallward, tore the knife out of his hand, and flung it to the end of the studio. ‘Don’t, Basil, don’t!’ he cried. ‘It would be murder!’
他压抑着抽泣声，从沙发上跳了起来，冲向霍尔沃德，从他手中夺走了刀，扔到了工作室的尽头。 “别这样，巴兹尔，别这样！”他喊道。 “这就是谋杀！”

‘I am glad you appreciate my work at last, Dorian,’ said Hallward, coldly, when he had recovered from his surprise. ‘I never thought you would.’
“我很高兴你终于欣赏我的工作了，多里安，”霍尔华德从惊讶中回过神来，冷冷地说。 “我从没想过你会这么做。”

‘Appreciate it? I am in love with it, Basil. It is part of myself, I feel that.’
‘欣赏吗？我爱上了它，巴兹尔。这是我自己的一部分，我感觉到了。

‘Well, as soon as you are dry, you shall be varnished, and framed, and sent home. Then you can do what you like with yourself.’ And he walked across the room and rang the bell for tea. ‘You will have tea, of course, Dorian? And so will you, Harry? Tea is the only simple pleasure left to us.’
‘好吧，等你干了，你就会被涂上清漆，镶上框，然后送回家。然后你就可以做你自己喜欢做的​​事了。”然后他穿过房间，按响了茶水铃。 “你当然要喝茶，多里安？你也会吗，哈利？茶是我们剩下的唯一简单的乐趣。

‘I don’t like simple pleasures,’ said Lord Henry. ‘And I don’t like scenes, except on the stage. What absurd fellows you are, both of you! I wonder who it was defined man as a rational animal. It was the most premature definition ever given. Man is many things, but he is not rational. I am glad he is not, after all: though I wish you chaps would not squabble over the picture. You had much better let me have it, Basil. This silly boy doesn’t really want it, and I do.’
“我不喜欢简单的快乐，”亨利勋爵说。 “我不喜欢任何场景，除了舞台上的场景。你们两个真是可笑的家伙啊！我想知道是谁将人定义为理性动物。这是有史以来给出的最不成熟的定义。人有很多东西，但他不是理性的。我很高兴他不是，毕竟：尽管我希望你们不要为这张照片争吵。你最好把它交给我，巴兹尔。这个傻男孩其实并不想要它，而我却想要。

‘If you let any one have it but me, Basil, I will never forgive you!’ cried Dorian Gray. ‘And I don’t allow people to call me a silly boy.’
“如果你让除了我以外的任何人得到它，巴兹尔，我永远不会原谅你！”道林·格雷喊道。 “而且我不允许人们称我为傻孩子。”

‘You know the picture is yours, Dorian. I gave it to you before it existed.’
“你知道这幅画是你的，多里安。在它存在之前我就把它给了你。

‘And you know you have been a little silly, Mr. Gray, and that you don’t really mind being called a boy.’
“格雷先生，你知道你有点傻，而且你并不介意被称为男孩。”

‘I should have minded very much this morning, Lord Henry.’
“今天早上我应该非常介意的，亨利勋爵。”

‘Ah! this morning! You have lived since then.’
'啊！今天早上！从那时起你就一直活着。

There came a knock to the door, and the butler entered with the teatray and set it down upon a small Japanese table. There was a rattle of cups and saucers and the hissing of a fluted Georgian urn. Two globe-shaped china dishes were brought in by a page. Dorian Gray went over and poured the tea out. The two men sauntered languidly to the table, and examined what was under the covers.
有人敲门，管家端着茶盘进来，放在一张日式小桌子上。杯子和碟子发出嘎嘎声，还有一个有凹槽的格鲁吉亚瓮发出嘶嘶声。侍从送了两个球形瓷器进来。道连·格雷走过去倒了茶。两个人懒洋洋地走到桌边，检查被子下面的东西。

‘Let us go to the theatre to-night,’ said Lord Henry. ‘There is sure to be something on, somewhere. I have promised to dine at White’s, but it is only with an old friend, so I can send him a wire and say that I am ill, or that I am prevented from coming in consequence of a subsequent engagement. I think that would be a rather nice excuse: it would have the surprise of candor.’
“今晚我们去剧院吧，”亨利勋爵说。 “肯定有什么东西在某处发生。我答应去怀特家吃饭，但只是和一位老朋友一起吃饭，所以我可以给他发一封电报，说我病了，或者因为随后有约会而不能来。我认为这是一个相当不错的借口：它会带来坦率的惊喜。

‘It is such a bore putting on one’s dress-clothes,’ muttered Hallward. ‘And, when one has them on, they are so horrid.’
“穿上礼服真是太无聊了，”霍尔华德嘀咕道。 “而且，当人们戴上它们时，它们是如此可怕。”

‘Yes,’ answered Lord Henry, dreamily, ‘the costume of our day is detestable. It is so sombre, so depressing. Sin is the only colorelement left in modern life.’
“是的，”亨利勋爵如梦似幻地回答，“我们这个时代的服装是令人厌恶的。”它是那么的阴郁、那么的压抑。罪恶是现代生活中唯一剩下的色彩元素。

‘You really must not say things like that before Dorian, Harry.’
“你真的不可以在多里安面前说这样的话，哈利。”

‘Before which Dorian? The one who is pouring out tea for us, or the one in the picture?’
‘在哪个多里安之前？是给我们倒茶的那个，还是照片里的那个？

‘Before either.’
“在两者之前。”

‘I should like to come to the theatre with you, Lord Henry,’ said the lad.
“我想和你一起去剧院，亨利勋爵，”小伙子说。

‘Then you shall come; and you will come too, Basil, won’t you?’
‘那么你就来吧；你也会来，巴兹尔，不是吗？

‘I can’t, really. I would sooner not. I have a lot of work to do.’
“我不能，真的。我宁愿不这样做。我有很多工作要做。

‘Well, then, you and I will go alone, Mr. Gray.’
“那么，你和我就单独去吧，格雷先生。”

‘I should like that awfully.’
“我非常喜欢这样。”

Basil Hallward bit his lip and walked over, cup in hand, to the picture. ‘I will stay with the real Dorian,’ he said, sadly.
巴兹尔·霍华德咬着嘴唇，手里拿着杯子走向照片。 “我会和真正的多里安在一起，”他悲伤地说。

‘Is it the real Dorian?’ cried the original of the portrait, running across to him. ‘Am I really like that?’
“这是真正的多里安吗？”肖像的原作跑到他身边喊道。 “我真的是这样的吗？”

‘Yes; you are just like that.’
'是的;你就是那样的。

‘How wonderful, Basil!’
“多棒啊，巴兹尔！”

‘At least you are like it in appearance. But it will never alter,’ said Hallward. ‘That is something.’
‘至少你的外表是这样的。但它永远不会改变，”霍尔沃德说。 “那是某事。”

‘What a fuss people make about fidelity!’ murmured Lord Henry.
“人们对忠诚如此大惊小怪！”亨利勋爵低声说道。

‘And, after all, it is purely a question for physiology. It has nothing to do with our own will. It is either an unfortunate accident, or an unpleasant result of temperament. Young men want to be faithful, and are not; old men want to be faithless, and cannot: that is all one can say.’
“毕竟，这纯粹是一个生理学问题。这与我们自己的意志无关。这要么是不幸的意外，要么是性格的不愉快的结果。年轻人想要忠诚，却没有；老人想要不忠，却做不到：这就是我们所能说的。

‘Don’t go to the theatre to-night, Dorian,’ said Hallward. ‘Stop and dine with me.’
“今晚别去剧院，多里安，”霍尔华德说。 “停下来和我一起吃饭吧。”

‘I can’t, really.’
“我不能，真的。”

‘Why?’
'为什么？'

‘Because I have promised Lord Henry to go with him.’
“因为我已经答应亨利勋爵和他一起去。”

‘He won’t like you better for keeping your promises. He always breaks his own. I beg you not to go.’
‘他不会因为你遵守诺言而更喜欢你。他总是打破自己的。我求你不要走。

Dorian Gray laughed and shook his head.
道连·格雷笑着摇了摇头。

‘I entreat you.’
“我恳求你。”

The lad hesitated, and looked over at Lord Henry, who was watching them from the tea-table with an amused smile.
小伙子犹豫了一下，看了看亨利勋爵，亨利勋爵正在茶几上带着有趣的微笑看着他们。

‘I must go, Basil,’ he answered.
“我必须走了，巴兹尔，”他回答道。

‘Very well,’ said Hallward; and he walked over and laid his cup down on the tray. ‘It is rather late, and, as you have to dress, you had better lose no time. Good-by, Harry; good-by, Dorian. Come and see me soon. Come to-morrow.’
“很好，”霍尔华德说。他走过去，把杯子放在托盘上。 “时间已经很晚了，你得穿衣服，最好抓紧时间。”再见，哈利；再见，多里安。快来见我吧。明天来。'

‘Certainly.’
'当然。'

‘You won’t forget?’
“你不会忘记吧？”

‘No, of course not.’
'不，当然不。'

‘And … Harry!’
“还有……哈利！”

‘Yes, Basil?’
“是吗，巴兹尔？”

‘Remember what I asked you, when in the garden this morning.’
“记住我今天早上在花园里问你的话。”

‘I have forgotten it.’
“我忘了。”

‘I trust you.’
'我相信你。'

‘I wish I could trust myself,’ said Lord Henry, laughing.—‘Come, Mr. Gray, my hansom is outside, and I can drop you at your own place.— Good-by, Basil. It has been a most interesting afternoon.’
“我希望我能相信自己，”亨利勋爵笑着说道。——“来吧，格雷先生，我的马车在外面，我可以把你送到你自己的地方。——再见，巴兹尔。这是一个最有趣的下午。

As the door closed behind them, Hallward flung himself down on a sofa, and a look of pain came into his face.
当门在他们身后关上时，霍尔华德猛地倒在沙发上，脸上露出痛苦的表情。

Chapter III
第三章

One afternoon, a month later, Dorian Gray was reclining in a luxurious arm-chair, in the little library of Lord Henry’s house in Curzon Street. It was, in its way, a very charming room, with its high panelled wainscoting of olive-stained oak, its cream-colored frieze and ceiling of raised plaster-work, and its brick-dust felt carpet strewn with long-fringed silk Persian rugs. On a tiny satinwood table stood a statuette by Clodion, and beside it lay a copy of ‘Les Cent Nouvelles,’ bound for Margaret of Valois by Clovis Eve, and powdered with the gilt daisies that the queen had selected for her device. Some large blue china jars, filled with parrottulips, were ranged on the mantel-shelf, and through the small leaded panes of the window streamed the apricot-colored light of a summer’s day in London.
一个月后的一天下午，在寇松街亨利勋爵宅邸的小图书馆里，道林·格雷斜倚在一张豪华的扶手椅上。就其本身而言，这是一个非常迷人的房间，有橄榄色橡木制成的高镶板护墙板，奶油色的楣板和凸起的石膏天花板，以及铺满长流苏波斯丝绸的砖尘毛毡地毯。地毯。一张小小的缎木桌子上放着一尊克洛迪翁的小雕像，旁边放着一本《新世纪》的副本，是克洛维斯·伊芙寄给瓦卢瓦的玛格丽特的，上面撒了女王为她的图案选择的镀金雏菊。壁炉架上排列着一些蓝色的大瓷罐，里面装满了鹦鹉金香，伦敦夏日的杏色光线透过窗户上的小铅玻璃射进来。

Lord Henry had not come in yet. He was always late on principle, his principle being that punctuality is the thief of time. So the lad was looking rather sulky, as with listless fingers he turned over the pages of an elaborately-illustrated edition of ‘Manon Lescaut’ that he had found in one of the bookcases. The formal monotonous ticking of the Louis Quatorze clock annoyed him. Once or twice he thought of going away.
亨利勋爵还没有进来。原则上他总是迟到，他的原则是守时就是时间的小偷。所以这个小伙子看起来相当闷闷不乐，他用无精打采的手指翻着他在一个书柜里找到的一本插图精美的《曼农·莱斯科》的书页。路易斯·奎托兹钟正式、单调的滴答声让他很恼火。有一两次他想离开。

At last he heard a light step outside, and the door opened. ‘How late you are, Harry!’ he murmured.
最后他听到外面有轻微的脚步声，门开了。 “你太晚了，哈利！”他低声说道。

‘I am afraid it is not Harry, Mr. Gray,’ said a woman’s voice.
“恐怕不是哈利，格雷先生，”一个女人的声音说道。

He glanced quickly round, and rose to his feet. ‘I beg your pardon. I thought—’
他迅速环顾四周，然后站了起来。 '请再说一遍。我想-'

‘You thought it was my husband. It is only his wife. You must let me introduce myself. I know you quite well by your photographs. I think my husband has got twenty-seven of them.’
‘你以为那是我丈夫。这只是他的妻子。你必须让我自我介绍一下。通过你的照片我很了解你。我想我丈夫有二十七个。

‘Not twenty-seven, Lady Henry?’
“亨利夫人，不到二十七岁吧？”

‘Well, twenty-six, then. And I saw you with him the other night at the Opera.’ She laughed nervously, as she spoke, and watched him with her vague forget-me-not eyes. She was a curious woman, whose dresses always looked as if they had been designed in a rage and put on in a tempest. She was always in love with somebody, and, as her passion was never returned, she had kept all her illusions. She tried to look picturesque, but only succeeded in being untidy. Her name was Victoria, and she had a perfect mania for going to church.
“那么，二十六岁吧。那天晚上我在歌剧院看到你和他在一起。”她边说边紧张地笑起来，用她那模糊的、勿忘我的眼睛看着他。她是一个充满好奇心的女人，她的衣服看起来总是像是在暴风雨中设计并穿上的。她总是爱着一个人，但由于她的热情从未得到回报，所以她保留了所有的幻想。她试图让自己看起来漂亮，但结果却是邋遢。她的名字叫维多利亚，她非常喜欢去教堂。

‘That was at ‘Lohengrin,’ Lady Henry, I think?’
“我想那是在‘罗恩格林’，亨利夫人？”

‘Yes; it was at dear ‘Lohengrin.’ I like Wagner’s music better than any other music. It is so loud that one can talk the whole time, without people hearing what one says. That is a great advantage: don’t you think so, Mr. Gray?’
'是的;那是在亲爱的“Lohengrin”。我比任何其他音乐都更喜欢瓦格纳的音乐。声音太大了，一个人可以一直说话，而别人却听不到他说的话。这是一个很大的优势：格雷先生，你不这么认为吗？

The same nervous staccato laugh broke from her thin lips, and her fingers began to play with a long paper-knife.
她的薄嘴唇也发出同样紧张、断断续续的笑声，她的手指开始摆弄一把长裁纸刀。

Dorian smiled, and shook his head: ‘I am afraid I don’t think so, Lady Henry. I never talk during music,—at least during good music. If one hears bad music, it is one’s duty to drown it by conversation.’
多里安微笑着，摇摇头：“恐怕我不这么认为，亨利夫人。我从不在听音乐时说话——至少在听好音乐时是这样。如果一个人听到不好的音乐，就有责任通过交谈来淹没它。

‘Ah! that is one of Harry’s views, isn’t it, Mr. Gray? But you must not think I don’t like good music. I adore it, but I am afraid of it. It makes me too romantic. I have simply worshipped pianists,— two at a time, sometimes. I don’t know what it is about them. Perhaps it is that they are foreigners. They all are, aren’t they? Even those that are born in England become foreigners after a time, don’t they? It is so clever of them, and such a compliment to art. Makes it quite cosmopolitan, doesn’t it? You have never been to any of my parties, have you, Mr. Gray? You must come. I can’t afford orchids, but I spare no expense in foreigners. They make one’s rooms look so picturesque. But here is Harry!—Harry, I came in to look for you, to ask you something,—I forget what it was,—and I found Mr. Gray here. We have had such a pleasant chat about music. We have quite the same views. No; I think our views are quite different. But he has been most pleasant. I am so glad I’ve seen him.’
'啊！这是哈利的观点之一，不是吗，格雷先生？但你千万别以为我不喜欢好音乐。我喜欢它，但我害怕它。这让我太浪漫了。我只是崇拜钢琴家——有时一次崇拜两个钢琴家。我不知道他们有什么关系。也许是因为他们是外国人。他们都是，不是吗？即使是那些在英国出生的人，过了一段时间后也变成了外国人，不是吗？他们真是太聪明了，也是对艺术的赞美。让它变得非常国际化，不是吗？你从来没有参加过我的任何聚会，是吗，格雷先生？你一定要来。兰花我买不起，洋人却不惜重金。它们使房间看起来如此风景如画。但是哈利在这里！——哈利，我进来找你，想问你一件事，——我忘了​​是什么，——我在这里找到了格雷先生。我们就音乐进行了一次愉快的交谈。我们的观点非常一致。不;我认为我们的观点很不同。但他一直是最令人愉快的。我很高兴见到他。

‘I am charmed, my love, quite charmed,’ said Lord Henry, elevating his dark crescent-shaped eyebrows and looking at them both with an amused smile.—‘So sorry I am late, Dorian. I went to look after a piece of old brocade in Wardour Street, and had to bargain for hours for it. Nowadays people know the price of everything, and the value of nothing.’
“我被迷住了，我的爱人，非常迷住了，”亨利勋爵说，他扬起了新月形的黑色眉毛，带着有趣的微笑看着他们俩。“很抱歉我迟到了，多里安。我去沃杜尔街看一件旧锦缎，花了几个小时讨价还价。现在人们知道一切东西的价格，但不知道任何东西的价值。”

‘I am afraid I must be going,’ exclaimed Lady Henry, after an awkward silence, with her silly sudden laugh. ‘I have promised to drive with the duchess.—Good-by, Mr. Gray.—Good-by, Harry. You are dining out, I suppose? So am I. Perhaps I shall see you at Lady Thornbury’s.’
“恐怕我得走了，”亨利夫人在一阵尴尬的沉默后大声说道，突然傻笑起来。 “我答应和公爵夫人一起开车。——再见，格雷先生。——再见，哈利。”我猜你正在外面吃饭吧？我也是。也许我会在桑伯里夫人家见到你。

‘I dare say, my dear,’ said Lord Henry, shutting the door behind her, as she flitted out of the room, looking like a bird-of-paradise that had been out in the rain, and leaving a faint odor of patchouli behind her. Then he shook hands with Dorian Gray, lit a cigarette, and flung himself down on the sofa.
“我敢说，亲爱的，”亨利勋爵说着，关上了身后的门，她飞快地走出了房间，看上去就像一只在雨中飞过的天堂鸟，留下了淡淡的广藿香气味。在她后面。然后他和道林·格雷握了握手，点燃了一支香烟，然后倒在了沙发上。

‘Never marry a woman with straw-colored hair, Dorian,’ he said, after a few puffs.
“永远不要娶一个稻草色头发的女人，多里安，”他吸了几口烟后说道。

‘Why, Harry?’
“为什么，哈利？”

‘Because they are so sentimental.’
“因为他们太感性了。”

‘But I like sentimental people.’
“但我喜欢感性的人。”

‘Never marry at all, Dorian. Men marry because they are tired; women, because they are curious: both are disappointed.’
“永远不要结婚，多里安。男人因为累而结婚；女性，因为她们很好奇：两者都感到失望。

‘I don’t think I am likely to marry, Harry. I am too much in love. That is one of your aphorisms. I am putting it into practice, as I do everything you say.’
“我认为我不太可能结婚，哈利。我太爱了。这是你的格言之一。我正在将其付诸实践，就像你所说的一切一样。”

‘Whom are you in love with?’ said Lord Henry, looking at him with a curious smile.
“你爱着谁？”亨利勋爵问道，带着好奇的微笑看着他。

‘With an actress,’ said Dorian Gray, blushing.
“和一个女演员，”多里安·格雷红着脸说道。

Lord Henry shrugged his shoulders. ‘That is a rather common-place début,’ he murmured.
亨利勋爵耸耸肩。 “这是一次相当平常的首次亮相，”他低声说道。

‘You would not say so if you saw her, Harry.’
“如果你看到她，你就不会这么说，哈利。”

‘Who is she?’
'她是谁？'

‘Her name is Sibyl Vane.’
“她的名字是西比尔·文。”

‘Never heard of her.’
“从没听说过她。”

‘No one has. People will some day, however. She is a genius.’
‘没有人有过。然而，总有一天人们会的。她是个天才。

‘My dear boy, no woman is a genius: women are a decorative sex. They never have anything to say, but they say it charmingly. They represent the triumph of matter over mind, just as we men represent the triumph of mind over morals. There are only two kinds of women, the plain and the colored. The plain women are very useful. If you want to gain a reputation for respectability, you have merely to take them down to supper. The other women are very charming. They commit one mistake, however. They paint in order to try to look young. Our grandmothers painted in order to try to talk brilliantly. Rouge and esprit used to go together. That has all gone out now. As long as a woman can look ten years younger than her own daughter, she is perfectly satisfied. As for conversation, there are only five women in London worth talking to, and two of these can’t be admitted into decent society. However, tell me about your genius. How long have you known her?’
“我亲爱的孩子，没有哪个女人是天才：女人是一种装饰性的性别。他们从来没有什么可说的，但他们说起来很迷人。它们代表着物质对心灵的胜利，正如我们人类代表着心灵对道德的胜利一样。女人只有两种，素色的和有色的。朴素的女人很有用。如果你想获得受人尊敬的声誉，你只需带他们去吃晚饭就可以了。其他女人都很迷人。然而，他们犯了一个错误。他们画画是为了让自己看起来年轻。我们的祖母画画是为了能说得漂亮。胭脂和精神曾经是相辅相成的。现在一切都消失了。女人只要能看起来比自己的女儿年轻十岁，就已经心满意足了。至于谈话，伦敦只有五名女性值得交谈，其中两人无法进入体面的社会。不过，请告诉我你的天才。你认识她多久了？

‘About three weeks. Not so much. About two weeks and two days.’
‘大约三个星期。没那么多。大约两周零两天。”

‘How did you come across her?’
“你是怎么认识她的？”

‘I will tell you, Harry; but you mustn’t be unsympathetic about it. After all, it never would have happened if I had not met you. You filled me with a wild desire to know everything about life. For days after I met you, something seemed to throb in my veins. As I lounged in the Park, or strolled down Piccadilly, I used to look at every one who passed me, and wonder with a mad curiosity what sort of lives they led. Some of them fascinated me. Others filled me with terror. There was an exquisite poison in the air. I had a passion for sensations.
“我会告诉你，哈利；但你不能对此无动于衷。毕竟，如果我没有遇见你，这一切都不会发生。你让我充满了想要了解生活一切的疯狂渴望。遇见你后的几天里，我的血管里似乎有什么东西在抽动。当我在公园里闲逛，或者沿着皮卡迪利大街漫步时，我常常看着每一个经过我的人，怀着疯狂的好奇心想知道他们过着什么样的生活。其中一些让我着迷。其他人则让我充满恐惧。空气中弥漫着一股绝妙的毒气。我对感觉充满热情。

‘One evening about seven o’clock I determined to go out in search of some adventure. I felt that this gray, monstrous London of ours, with its myriads of people, its splendid sinners, and its sordid sins, as you once said, must have something in store for me. I fancied a thousand things.
“一天晚上七点左右，我决定出去冒险。我觉得，正如你曾经说过的那样，我们这个灰色、可怕的伦敦，有无数的人民，有光辉的罪人，有肮脏的罪恶，一定有什么东西等着我。我幻想过一千件事。

‘The mere danger gave me a sense of delight. I remembered what you had said to me on that wonderful night when we first dined together, about the search for beauty being the poisonous secret of life. I don’t know what I expected, but I went out, and wandered eastward, soon losing my way in a labyrinth of grimy streets and black, grassless squares. About half-past eight I passed by a little thirdrate theatre, with great flaring gas-jets and gaudy play-bills. A hideous Jew, in the most amazing waistcoat I ever beheld in my life, was standing at the entrance, smoking a vile cigar. He had greasy ringlets, and an enormous diamond blazed in the centre of a soiled shirt. ‘’Ave a box, my lord?’ he said, when he saw me, and he took off his hat with an act of gorgeous servility. There was something about him, Harry, that amused me. He was such a monster. You will laugh at me, I know, but I really went in and paid a whole guinea for the stage-box. To the present day I can’t make out why I did so; and yet if I hadn’t!—my dear Harry, if I hadn’t, I would have missed the greatest romance of my life. I see you are laughing. It is horrid of you!’
“仅仅危险就让我有一种快乐的感觉。我记得在那个美好的夜晚，当我们第一次一起吃饭时，你对我说过的话，关于寻找美丽是生命的有毒秘密。我不知道自己在期待什么，但我走出去，向东徘徊，很快就在肮脏的街道和漆黑无草的广场组成的迷宫中迷失了方向。八点半左右，我经过一家三流小剧院，里面有巨大的煤气灯和华而不实的戏剧表演。一个丑陋的犹太人，穿着我一生中见过的最令人惊奇的背心，站在入口处，抽着一根邪恶的雪茄。他有一头油腻腻的卷发，脏衬衫中央有一颗巨大的钻石闪闪发光。 “大人，要一盒吗？”他一看到我就说道，然后以一种华丽的奴性动作脱下了帽子。哈利，他身上有一种东西让我觉得很有趣。他真是个怪物。我知道你会嘲笑我，但我真的进去了，花了整整几尼买了舞台包厢。直到今天我也不明白为什么我要这么做。但如果我不这样做！——亲爱的哈利，如果我不这样做，我就会错过我一生中最伟大的浪漫。我看到你在笑。你太可怕了！

‘I am not laughing, Dorian; at least I am not laughing at you. But you should not say the greatest romance of your life. You should say the first romance of your life. You will always be loved, and you will always be in love with love. There are exquisite things in store for you. This is merely the beginning.’
“我没有笑，多里安；我没有笑。”至少我没有嘲笑你。但你不应该说你一生中最伟大的浪漫。你应该说你人生中的第一次浪漫。你将永远被爱，你将永远被爱所爱。这里有精美的东西等着你。这仅仅是开始。

‘Do you think my nature so shallow?’ cried Dorian Gray, angrily.
“你以为我的本性这么肤浅吗？”道林·格雷愤怒地喊道。

‘No; I think your nature so deep.’
'不;我觉得你的本性很深。

‘How do you mean?’
'你是什么意思？'

‘My dear boy, people who only love once in their lives are really shallow people. What they call their loyalty, and their fidelity, I call either the lethargy of custom or the lack of imagination. Faithlessness is to the emotional life what consistency is to the intellectual life,—simply a confession of failure. But I don’t want to interrupt you. Go on with your story.’
‘我亲爱的孩子，一生只爱一次的人真是肤浅的人。他们所说的忠诚，我所说的要么是习惯的冷漠，要么是缺乏想象力。不忠对于情感生活就像一致性对于理智生活一样——只是对失败的承认。但我不想打扰你。继续你的故事。

‘Well, I found myself seated in a horrid little private box, with a vulgar drop-scene staring me in the face. I looked out behind the curtain, and surveyed the house. It was a tawdry affair, all Cupids and cornucopias, like a third-rate wedding-cake. The gallery and pit were fairly full, but the two rows of dingy stalls were quite empty, and there was hardly a person in what I suppose they called the dress-circle. Women went about with oranges and ginger-beer, and there was a terrible consumption of nuts going on.’
“好吧，我发现自己坐在一个可怕的小私人包厢里，一个粗俗的下降场景盯着我的脸。我从窗帘后面往外看，打量着房子。这是一件庸俗的事情，全是丘比特和聚宝盆，就像一个三流的婚礼蛋糕。画廊和坑里都挤满了人，但两排肮脏的摊位却空无一人，我想他们所谓的“服装圈”里几乎没有一个人。女人们总是带着橙子和姜汁啤酒，坚果的消费量也非常惊人。

‘It must have been just like the palmy days of the British Drama.’
“这一定就像英国戏剧的辉煌岁月。”

‘Just like, I should fancy, and very horrid. I began to wonder what on earth I should do, when I caught sight of the play-bill. What do you think the play was, Harry?’
‘就像，我想，而且非常可怕。当我看到演出单时，我开始思考我到底应该做什么。你觉得这出戏是什么，哈利？

‘I should think ‘The Idiot Boy, or Dumb but Innocent.’ Our fathers used to like that sort of piece, I believe. The longer I live, Dorian, the more keenly I feel that whatever was good enough for our fathers is not good enough for us. In art, as in politics, les grand pères ont toujours tort.’
“我应该想到《白痴男孩》，或者《愚蠢但天真》。我相信，我们的父亲曾经喜欢这类作品。多里安，我活得越久，我就越强烈地感觉到，对我们的父亲来说足够好的东西对我们来说还不够好。在艺术中​​，正如在政治中一样，伟大的父辈都属于侵权行为。

‘This play was good enough for us, Harry. It was ‘Romeo and Juliet.’ I must admit I was rather annoyed at the idea of seeing Shakespeare done in such a wretched hole of a place. Still, I felt interested, in a sort of way. At any rate, I determined to wait for the first act. There was a dreadful orchestra, presided over by a young Jew who sat at a cracked piano, that nearly drove me away, but at last the drop-scene was drawn up, and the play began. Romeo was a stout elderly gentleman, with corked eyebrows, a husky tragedy voice, and a figure like a beer-barrel. Mercutio was almost as bad. He was played by the low-comedian, who had introduced gags of his own and was on most familiar terms with the pit. They were as grotesque as the scenery, and that looked as if it had come out of a pantomime of fifty years ago. But Juliet! Harry, imagine a girl, hardly seventeen years of age, with a little flower-like face, a small Greek head with plaited coils of dark-brown hair, eyes that were violet wells of passion, lips that were like the petals of a rose. She was the loveliest thing I had ever seen in my life. You said to me once that pathos left you unmoved, but that beauty, mere beauty, could fill your eyes with tears. I tell you, Harry, I could hardly see this girl for the mist of tears that came across me. And her voice,I never heard such a voice. It was very low at first, with deep mellow notes, that seemed to fall singly upon one’s ear. Then it became a little louder, and sounded like a flute or a distant hautbois. In the garden-scene it had all the tremulous ecstasy that one hears just before dawn when nightingales are singing. There were moments, later on, when it had the wild passion of violins. You know how a voice can stir one. Your voice and the voice of Sibyl Vane are two things that I shall never forget. When I close my eyes, I hear them, and each of them says something different. I don’t know which to follow. Why should I not love her? Harry, I do love her. She is everything to me in life. Night after night I go to see her play. One evening she is Rosalind, and the next evening she is Imogen. I have seen her die in the gloom of an Italian tomb, sucking the poison from her lover’s lips. I have watched her wandering through the forest of Arden, disguised as a pretty boy in hose and doublet and dainty cap. She has been mad, and has come into the presence of a guilty king, and given him rue to wear, and bitter herbs to taste of. She has been innocent, and the black hands of jealousy have crushed her reed-like throat. I have seen her in every age and in every costume. Ordinary women never appeal to one’s imagination. They are limited to their century. No glamour ever transfigures them. One knows their minds as easily as one knows their bonnets. One can always find them. There is no mystery in one of them. They ride in the Park in the morning, and chatter at tea-parties in the afternoon. They have their stereotyped smile, and their fashionable manner. They are quite obvious. But an actress! How different an actress is! Why didn’t you tell me that the only thing worth loving is an actress?’
“这部戏对我们来说已经足够好了，哈利。那是《罗密欧与朱丽叶》。我必须承认，一想到在这样一个破地方看到莎士比亚的表演，我就感到相当恼火。尽管如此，我还是以某种方式感到感兴趣。无论如何，我决定等待第一幕。有一个可怕的管弦乐队，由一个年轻的犹太人主持，他坐在一架破裂的钢琴前，差点把我赶走，但最后场景画好了，戏剧开始了。罗密欧是一位身材矮胖的老绅士，眉毛紧皱，声音沙哑，充满悲剧色彩，身材像啤酒桶。茂丘西奥几乎同样糟糕。他是由一位低俗喜剧演员扮演的，他引入了自己的笑点，并且对这个坑有着最熟悉的术语。它们和风景一样怪诞，看起来就像是从五十年前的哑剧里走出来的。但是朱丽叶！哈利，想象一下一个女孩，还不到十七岁，有一张像花一样的小脸，一个小希腊头，盘绕着深棕色的头发，紫罗兰色的眼睛充满了激情，嘴唇像玫瑰花瓣一样。她是我一生中见过的最可爱的人。你曾经对我说过，那种悲怆让你无动于衷，但那种美丽，仅仅是美丽，却能让你热泪盈眶。我告诉你，哈利，我几乎看不到这个女孩，因为我的泪水笼罩着我。还有她的声音，我从来没有听过这样的声音。起初声音很低，声音低沉醇厚，仿佛单独落在耳边。然后声音变得更大一些，听起来像长笛或远处的高布瓦。在花园场景中，它具有黎明前夜莺歌唱时所听到的所有颤抖的狂喜。后来的某些时刻，它具有小提琴般的狂野激情。你知道声音如何能够激动人心。 你的声音和西比尔·瓦恩的声音是我永远不会忘记的两件事。当我闭上眼睛时，我听到他们的声音，每个人都说着不同的话。我不知道该遵循哪个。我为什么不应该爱她？哈利，我真的爱她。她是我生活中的一切。我夜复一夜地去看她打球。一天晚上她是罗莎琳德，第二天晚上她是伊莫金。我曾亲眼目睹她死在一座意大利坟墓的阴暗中，从她爱人的嘴唇里吸出毒药。我曾见过她在雅顿森林里漫步，打扮成一个穿着长筒袜、紧身上衣、戴着精致帽子的漂亮男孩。她疯了，来到了一个有罪的国王面前，给了他穿芸香，给他尝苦菜。她本来是无辜的，嫉妒的黑手已经掐断了她芦苇般的喉咙。我见过她的各个年龄段、各种服装。普通女人永远无法激发人们的想象力。他们仅限于他们的世纪。没有任何魅力可以改变他们。一个人很容易了解他们的想法，就像了解他们的帽子一样。人们总能找到它们。其中之一并没有什么神秘之处。他们早上在公园里骑行，下午在茶会上聊天。他们有刻板的笑容，有时尚的举止。它们是很明显的。不过是个演员啊！女演员是多么的不同啊！你为什么不告诉我，唯一值得爱的就是女演员？’

‘Because I have loved so many of them, Dorian.’
“因为我爱过他们中的很多人，多里安。”

‘Oh, yes, horrid people with dyed hair and painted faces.’
“哦，是的，那些染头发、画脸的可怕人。”

‘Don’t run down dyed hair and painted faces. There is an extraordinary charm in them, sometimes.’
“不要把染过的头发和画过的脸弄脏。”有时它们有一种非凡的魅力。

‘I wish now I had not told you about Sibyl Vane.’
“我现在希望我没有告诉你西比尔·文恩的事。”

‘You could not have helped telling me, Dorian. All through your life you will tell me everything you do.’
“你情不自禁地告诉了我，多里安。在你的一生中，你都会告诉我你所做的一切。

‘Yes, Harry, I believe that is true. I cannot help telling you things. You have a curious influence over me. If I ever did a crime, I would come and confide it to you. You would understand me.’
“是的，哈利，我相信这是真的。我忍不住要告诉你一些事情。你对我有一种奇怪的影响。如果我犯了罪，我会来向你倾诉。你会理解我的。

‘People like you—the wilful sunbeams of life—don’t commit crimes, Dorian. But I am much obliged for the compliment, all the same. And now tell me,—reach me the matches, like a good boy: thanks,—tell me, what are your relations with Sibyl Vane?’
“像你这样的人——生命中任性的阳光——不会犯罪，多里安。但无论如何，我还是非常感谢你的赞美。现在告诉我，——像个好孩子一样给我火柴：谢谢，——告诉我，你和西比尔·文恩是什么关系？

Dorian Gray leaped to his feet, with flushed cheeks and burning eyes. ‘Harry, Sibyl Vane is sacred!’
多里安·格雷一跃而起，脸颊通红，眼睛灼热。 “哈利，西比尔·文是神圣的！”

‘It is only the sacred things that are worth touching, Dorian,’ said Lord Henry, with a strange touch of pathos in his voice. ‘But why should you be annoyed? I suppose she will be yours some day. When one is in love, one always begins by deceiving one’s self, and one always ends by deceiving others. That is what the world calls romance. You know her, at any rate, I suppose?’
“只有神圣的事物才值得触摸，多里安，”亨利勋爵说道，声音里带着一丝奇怪的悲怆。 ‘但是你为什么要生气呢？我想有一天她会成为你的。人在恋爱的时候，总是以欺骗自己开始，又总是以欺骗别人结束。这就是世人所说的浪漫。无论如何，我想你认识她吧？

‘Of course I know her. On the first night I was at the theatre, the horrid old Jew came round to the box after the performance was over, and offered to bring me behind the scenes and introduce me to her. I was furious with him, and told him that Juliet had been dead for hundreds of years, and that her body was lying in a marble tomb in Verona. I think, from his blank look of amazement, that he thought I had taken too much champagne, or something.’
“我当然认识她。我去剧院的第一个晚上，演出结束后，那个可怕的老犹太人来到包厢，主动提出带我到幕后，把我介绍给她。我对他很生气，告诉他朱丽叶已经死了几百年了，她的尸体躺在维罗纳的一座大理石坟墓里。我认为，从他惊讶的茫然表情来看，他认为我喝了太多香槟，或者什么的。

‘I am not surprised.’
'我并不感到意外。'

‘I was not surprised either. Then he asked me if I wrote for any of the newspapers. I told him I never even read them. He seemed terribly disappointed at that, and confided to me that all the dramatic critics were in a conspiracy against him, and that they were all to be bought.’
‘我也不感到惊讶。然后他问我是否为任何报纸撰稿。我告诉他我从来没有读过它们。他似乎对此感到非常失望，并向我透露，所有戏剧评论家都在密谋反对他，而且他们都将被收买。

‘I believe he was quite right there. But, on the other hand, most of them are not at all expensive.’
“我相信他说得很对。但另一方面，它们中的大多数并不昂贵。

‘Well, he seemed to think they were beyond his means. By this time the lights were being put out in the theatre, and I had to go. He wanted me to try some cigars which he strongly recommended. I declined. The next night, of course, I arrived at the theatre again. When he saw me he made me a low bow, and assured me that I was a patron of art. He was a most offensive brute, though he had an extraordinary passion for Shakespeare. He told me once, with an air of pride, that his three bankruptcies were entirely due to the poet, whom he insisted on calling ‘The Bard.’ He seemed to think it a distinction.’
“嗯，他似乎认为他们超出了他的能力范围。这时剧院的灯已经灭了，我不得不走了。他想让我尝试一些他强烈推荐的雪茄。我拒绝了。当然，第二天晚上，我又来到了剧院。当他看到我时，他向我深深鞠了一躬，并向我保证我是艺术的赞助人。尽管他对莎士比亚有着非凡的热情，但他是一个最具攻击性的野蛮人。有一次他自豪地告诉我，他的三次破产完全是这位诗人造成的，他坚持称这位诗人为“吟游诗人”。他似乎认为这是一种区别。

‘It was a distinction, my dear Dorian,—a great distinction. But when did you first speak to Miss Sibyl Vane?’
“这是一个荣誉，我亲爱的多里安，一个伟大的荣誉。但你第一次和西比尔·文小姐说话是什么时候？

‘The third night. She had been playing Rosalind. I could not help going round. I had thrown her some flowers, and she had looked at me; at least I fancied that she had. The old Jew was persistent. He seemed determined to bring me behind, so I consented. It was curious my not wanting to know her, wasn’t it?’
‘第三天晚上。她一直在扮演罗莎琳德。我忍不住转了一圈。我给她扔了一些花，她看着我；至少我认为她有。老犹太人很执着。他似乎铁了心要把我带回来，所以我同意了。奇怪的是我不想认识她，不是吗？

‘No; I don’t think so.’
'不;我不这么认为。

‘My dear Harry, why?’
“亲爱的哈利，为什么？”

‘I will tell you some other time. Now I want to know about the girl.’
‘我改天再告诉你。现在我想了解那个女孩的情况。

‘Sibyl? Oh, she was so shy, and so gentle. There is something of a child about her. Her eyes opened wide in exquisite wonder when I told her what I thought of her performance, and she seemed quite unconscious of her power. I think we were both rather nervous. The old Jew stood grinning at the door-way of the dusty greenroom, making elaborate speeches about us both, while we stood looking at each other like children. He would insist on calling me ‘My Lord,’ so I had to assure Sibyl that I was not anything of the kind. She said quite simply to me, ‘You look more like a prince.’’
‘西比尔？哦，她是那么害羞，又那么温柔。她身上有一些孩子气。当我告诉她我对她的表演的看法时，她睁大了眼睛，充满了精致的惊奇，她似乎完全没有意识到自己的力量。我想我们都相当紧张。老犹太人站在满是灰尘的休息室门口，咧着嘴笑，对我们俩进行了详尽的演讲，而我们则像孩子一样站着互相看着对方。他坚持称我为“我的主”，所以我必须向西比尔保证我不是那种人。她很简单地对我说：“你看起来更像一位王子。”

‘Upon my word, Dorian, Miss Sibyl knows how to pay compliments.’
“据我所知，多里安，西比尔小姐知道如何表达赞美。”

‘You don’t understand her, Harry. She regarded me merely as a person in a play. She knows nothing of life. She lives with her mother, a faded tired woman who played Lady Capulet in a sort of magenta dressing-wrapper on the first night, and who looks as if she had seen better days.’
“你不了解她，哈利。她只把我当成戏里的一个人。她对生活一无所知。她和她的母亲住在一起，她是一位面色苍白、疲惫不堪的女人，在第一晚扮演凯普莱特夫人时，她穿着一件洋红色的敷料包，看起来好像已经过了好日子了。

‘I know that look. It always depresses me.’
“我知道那种表情。它总是让我感到沮丧。

‘The Jew wanted to tell me her history, but I said it did not interest me.’
“那个犹太人想告诉我她的历史，但我说我对此不感兴趣。”

‘You were quite right. There is always something infinitely mean about other people’s tragedies.’
‘你说得很对。别人的悲剧总是有无限的意义。

‘Sibyl is the only thing I care about. What is it to me where she came from? From her little head to her little feet, she is absolutely and entirely divine. I go to see her act every night of my life, and every night she is more marvellous.’
“西比尔是我唯一关心的事情。她来自哪里与我有什么关系？从她的小脑袋到她的小脚，她绝对是神圣的。我一生中的每个晚上都会去看她的表演，每个晚上她都更加精彩。”

‘That is the reason, I suppose, that you will never dine with me now. I thought you must have some curious romance on hand. You have; but it is not quite what I expected.’
“我想这就是你现在永远不会和我一起吃饭的原因。我想你一定有一些奇怪的浪漫经历。你有;但这并不完全是我所期望的。”

‘My dear Harry, we either lunch or sup together every day, and I have been to the Opera with you several times.’
“我亲爱的哈利，我们每天要么一起吃午饭，要么一起吃晚饭，我和你一起去过歌剧院好几次了。”

‘You always come dreadfully late.’
“你总是迟到得厉害。”

‘Well, I can’t help going to see Sibyl play, even if it is only for an act. I get hungry for her presence; and when I think of the wonderful soul that is hidden away in that little ivory body, I am filled with awe.’
“好吧，我忍不住去看西比尔的表演，即使只是为了表演。我渴望她的存在；当我想到那个象牙色的小身体里隐藏着美妙的灵魂时，我充满了敬畏。

‘You can dine with me to-night, Dorian, can’t you?’
“今晚你可以和我一起吃饭，多里安，不是吗？”

He shook his head. ‘To night she is Imogen,’ he answered, ‘and tomorrow night she will be Juliet.’
他摇摇头。 “今晚她是伊莫金，”他回答道，“明天晚上她将是朱丽叶。”

‘When is she Sibyl Vane?’
“她是什么时候的西比尔·文？”

‘Never.’
'绝不。'

‘I congratulate you.’
'我祝贺你。'

‘How horrid you are! She is all the great heroines of the world in one. She is more than an individual. You laugh, but I tell you she has genius. I love her, and I must make her love me. You, who know all the secrets of life, tell me how to charm Sibyl Vane to love me! I want to make Romeo jealous. I want the dead lovers of the world to hear our laughter, and grow sad. I want a breath of our passion to stir their dust into consciousness, to wake their ashes into pain. My God, Harry, how I worship her!’ He was walking up and down the room as he spoke. Hectic spots of red burned on his cheeks. He was terribly excited.
‘你真是太可怕了！她是世界上所有伟大女英雄的合一。她不仅仅是一个个体。你笑了，但我告诉你她有天才。我爱她，我必须让她爱我。你，知道生命的所有秘密，告诉我如何吸引西比尔·文恩来爱我！我想让罗密欧嫉妒。我希望世上死去的恋人听到我们的笑声，并变得悲伤。我希望我们的激情之呼吸能够将他们的尘埃搅入意识，唤醒他们的骨灰，让他们陷入痛苦。天哪，哈利，我多么崇拜她啊！”他一边说话，一边在房间里走来走去。他的脸颊上泛起红晕。他非常兴奋。

Lord Henry watched him with a subtle sense of pleasure. How different he was now from the shy, frightened boy he had met in Basil Hallward’s studio! His nature had developed like a flower, had borne blossoms of scarlet flame. Out of its secret hiding-place had crept his Soul, and Desire had come to meet it on the way.
亨利勋爵带着一种微妙的愉悦感看着他。现在的他与他在巴兹尔·霍尔沃德工作室遇到的那个害羞、害怕的男孩是多么不同啊！他的本性就像一朵花一样发展，绽放出猩红色的火焰之花。他的灵魂从秘密的藏身之处爬了出来，欲望在途中与它相遇。

‘And what do you propose to do?’ said Lord Henry, at last.
“那么你打算怎么做呢？”亨利勋爵最后说道。

‘I want you and Basil to come with me some night and see her act. I have not the slightest fear of the result. You won’t be able to refuse to recognize her genius. Then we must get her out of the Jew’s hands. She is bound to him for three years—at least for two years and eight months—from the present time. I will have to pay him something, of course. When all that is settled, I will take a West-End theatre and bring her out properly. She will make the world as mad as she has made me.’
“我希望你和巴兹尔有一天晚上跟我一起去看看她的表演。我对结果一点也不害怕。你无法拒绝承认她的天才。然后我们必须把她从犹太人手中救出来。从现在开始，她与他的关系三年——至少两年零八个月。当然，我得付给他一些钱。等一切都解决了之后，我会带她去伦敦西区的一家剧院好好地带她出来。她会让世界变得疯狂，就像她让我疯狂一样。”

‘Impossible, my dear boy!’
“不可能，我亲爱的孩子！”

‘Yes, she will. She has not merely art, consummate art-instinct, in her, but she has personality also; and you have often told me that it is personalities, not principles, that move the age.’
'对，她会。她身上不仅有艺术、完美的艺术本能，而且还有个性。你经常告诉我，推动时代发展的是个性，而不是原则。”

‘Well, what night shall we go?’
“好吧，我们什么晚上去？”

‘Let me see. To-day is Tuesday. Let us fix to-morrow. She plays Juliet to-morrow.’
'让我看看。今天是星期二。让我们明天解决吧。她明天扮演朱丽叶。

‘All right. The Bristol at eight o’clock; and I will get Basil.’
'好的。八点钟的布里斯托尔号；我会去找巴兹尔。

‘Not eight, Harry, please. Half-past six. We must be there before the curtain rises. You must see her in the first act, where she meets Romeo.’
“不是八个，哈利，拜托。”六点半。我们必须在幕布升起之前到达那里。你一定要在第一幕中看到她，在那里她遇到了罗密欧。”

‘Half-past six! What an hour! It will be like having a meat-tea. However, just as you wish. Shall you see Basil between this and then? Or shall I write to him?’
'六点半！多长时间啊！这就像喝肉茶一样。不过，正如你所愿。从现在到那时你能见见巴兹尔吗？或者我应该写信给他吗？

‘Dear Basil! I have not laid eyes on him for a week. It is rather horrid of me, as he has sent me my portrait in the most wonderful frame, designed by himself, and, though I am a little jealous of it for being a whole month younger than I am, I must admit that I delight in it. Perhaps you had better write to him. I don’t want to see him alone. He says things that annoy me.’
亲爱的巴兹尔！我已经一个星期没有看过他了。这对我来说是相当可怕的，因为他把我的肖像寄给了我，装在最精美的画框里，是他自己设计的，虽然我有点嫉妒它比我小一个月，但我必须承认我很高兴在里面。也许你最好写信给他。我不想单独见到他。他说的话让我恼火。

Lord Henry smiled. ‘He gives you good advice, I suppose. People are very fond of giving away what they need most themselves.’
亨利勋爵微笑着。 “我想他给了你很好的建议。人们非常喜欢赠送自己最需要的东西。”

‘You don’t mean to say that Basil has got any passion or any romance in him?’
“你的意思不是说巴兹尔身上有任何激情或浪漫吗？”

‘I don’t know whether he has any passion, but he certainly has romance,’ said Lord Henry, with an amused look in his eyes. ‘Has he never let you know that?’
“我不知道他是否有激情，但他肯定有浪漫。”亨利勋爵说道，眼中带着玩味。 “他从来没有让你知道过吗？”

‘Never. I must ask him about it. I am rather surprised to hear it. He is the best of fellows, but he seems to me to be just a bit of a Philistine. Since I have known you, Harry, I have discovered that.’
'绝不。我必须问他这件事。听到这个消息我感到很惊讶。他是最优秀的人，但在我看来，他有点庸俗。自从我认识你以来，哈利，我就发现了这一点。

‘Basil, my dear boy, puts everything that is charming in him into his work. The consequence is that he has nothing left for life but his prejudices, his principles, and his common sense. The only artists I have ever known who are personally delightful are bad artists. Good artists give everything to their art, and consequently are perfectly uninteresting in themselves. A great poet, a really great poet, is the most unpoetical of all creatures. But inferior poets are absolutely fascinating. The worse their rhymes are, the more picturesque they look. The mere fact of having published a book of second-rate sonnets makes a man quite irresistible. He lives the poetry that he cannot write. The others write the poetry that they dare not realize.’
“巴兹尔，我亲爱的孩子，把他身上所有的魅力都融入到了他的工作中。结果是，他的一生除了偏见、原则和常识之外一无所有。我所认识的唯一令人愉快的艺术家都是糟糕的艺术家。优秀的艺术家为他们的艺术付出了一切，因此他们自己却完全没有兴趣。一个伟大的诗人，一个真正伟大的诗人，是所有生物中最没有诗意的。但低等诗人绝对令人着迷。它们的韵律越差，看起来就越美丽。仅仅出版一本二流十四行诗集就足以让人难以抗拒。他生活在他无法写出的诗歌中。其他人写的诗是他们不敢实现的。

‘I wonder is that really so, Harry?’ said Dorian Gray, putting some perfume on his handkerchief out of a large gold-topped bottle that stood on the table. ‘It must be, if you say so. And now I must be off. Imogen is waiting for me. Don’t forget about to-morrow. Goodby.’
“我想知道真的是这样吗，哈利？”道林·格雷一边说，一边从桌上的金顶大瓶中取出一些香水，抹在手帕上。 ‘如果你这么说的话，那一定是这样。现在我必须走了。伊莫金正在等我。别忘了明天。有效期。'

As he left the room, Lord Henry’s heavy eyelids drooped, and he began to think. Certainly few people had ever interested him so much as Dorian Gray, and yet the lad’s mad adoration of some one else caused him not the slightest pang of annoyance or jealousy. He was pleased by it. It made him a more interesting study. He had been always enthralled by the methods of science, but the ordinary subject-matter of science had seemed to him trivial and of no import. And so he had begun by vivisecting himself, as he had ended by vivisecting others. Human life,—that appeared to him the one thing worth investigating. There was nothing else of any value, compared to it. It was true that as one watched life in its curious crucible of pain and pleasure, one could not wear over one’s face a mask of glass, or keep the sulphurous fumes from troubling the brain and making the imagination turbid with monstrous fancies and misshapen dreams. There were poisons so subtle that to know their properties one had to sicken of them. There were maladies so strange that one had to pass through them if one sought to understand their nature. And, yet, what a great reward one received! How wonderful the whole world became to one! To note the curious hard logic of passion, and the emotional colored life of the intellect,—to observe where they met, and where they separated, at what point they became one, and at what point they were at discord,—there was a delight in that! What matter what the cost was? One could never pay too high a price for any sensation.
离开房间时，亨利勋爵沉重的眼皮耷拉下来，开始思考。当然，很少有人像道林·格雷那样对他感兴趣，然而这个小伙子对别人的疯狂崇拜并没有给他带来丝毫的烦恼或嫉妒。他对此感到高兴。这使他的研究变得更加有趣。他一直对科学方法着迷，但普通的科学主题对他来说似乎微不足道且不重要。因此，他从对自己进行活体解剖开始，就像他以对他人进行活体解剖结束一样。人的生命——在他看来，这是一件值得研究的事情。与它相比，没有任何其他东西具有任何价值。确实，当一个人在痛苦和快乐的奇妙考验中观察生活时，他无法在脸上戴上玻璃面具，也无法阻止硫磺烟雾扰乱大脑，使想象力因可怕的幻想和畸形的梦想而变得浑浊。有些毒药非常微妙，要想了解它们的特性，就必须先对它们产生厌恶感。有些疾病是如此奇怪，如果一个人想要了解它们的本质，就必须通过它们。然而，一个人得到了多么巨大的回报啊！整个世界对于一个人来说是多么美好啊！注意到激情的奇怪的硬逻辑，以及智力的情感色彩生活，观察他们在哪里相遇，在哪里分开，在什么时候他们合而为一，在什么时候他们不和谐，对此感到高兴！代价是多少又有什么关系呢？一个人永远不会为任何感觉付出太高的代价。

He was conscious—and the thought brought a gleam of pleasure into his brown agate eyes—that it was through certain words of his, musical words said with musical utterance, that Dorian Gray’s soul had turned to this white girl and bowed in worship before her. To a large extent, the lad was his own creation. He had made him premature. That was something. Ordinary people waited till life disclosed to them its secrets, but to the few, to the elect, the mysteries of life were revealed before the veil was drawn away. Sometimes this was the effect of art, and chiefly of the art of literature, which dealt immediately with the passions and the intellect. But now and then a complex personality took the place and assumed the office of art, was indeed, in its way, a real work of art, Life having its elaborate masterpieces, just as poetry has, or sculpture, or painting.
他意识到——这个想法让他棕色玛瑙般的眼睛里闪现出一丝快乐的光芒——正是通过他的某些话语，用音乐般的话语说出的音乐话语，道林·格雷的灵魂转向了这个白人女孩，并在她面前鞠躬崇拜。 。在很大程度上，这个小伙子是他自己创造的。他让他早熟了。那是某件事。普通人等待着生命向他们揭示其秘密，但对于少数人，对于选民来说，生命的奥秘在面纱被揭开之前就被揭示了。有时这是艺术的效果，主要是文学艺术的效果，它直接涉及激情和智力。但时不时地，一种复杂的个性占据了位置，并承担了艺术的职责，就其本身而言，确实是一件真正的艺术作品，生活有其精心制作的杰作，就像诗歌、雕塑或绘画一样。

Yes, the lad was premature. He was gathering his harvest while it was yet spring. The pulse and passion of youth were in him, but he was becoming self-conscious. It was delightful to watch him. With his beautiful face, and his beautiful soul, he was a thing to wonder at. It was no matter how it all ended, or was destined to end. He was like one of those gracious figures in a pageant or a play, whose joys seem to be remote from one, but whose sorrows stir one’s sense of beauty, and whose wounds are like red roses.
是的，这小伙子还早熟。春天到来时，他正在收割庄稼。他身上充满了青春的脉搏和激情，但他却变得不自在了。看着他真是令人愉快。他有着美丽的容颜和美丽的灵魂，令人惊叹不已。不管这一切如何结束，或者注定要结束。他就像一场选美或戏剧中那些亲切的人物，其欢乐似乎远离人，但其悲伤却令人心旷神怡，其伤口如红玫瑰。

Soul and body, body and soul—how mysterious they were! There was animalism in the soul, and the body had its moments of spirituality. The senses could refine, and the intellect could degrade. Who could say where the fleshly impulse ceased, or the psychical impulse began? How shallow were the arbitrary definitions of ordinary psychologists! And yet how difficult to decide between the claims of the various schools! Was the soul a shadow seated in the house of sin? Or was the body really in the soul, as Giordano Bruno thought? The separation of spirit from matter was a mystery, and the union of spirit with matter was a mystery also.
灵魂与身体，身体与灵魂，多么神秘啊！灵魂中有兽性，身体也有灵性的时刻。感官可能会变得精炼，而智力可能会退化。谁能说清肉体的冲动在哪里停止，或者精神的冲动从哪里开始呢？普通心理学家的武断定义是多么肤浅啊！然而，要在不同流派的主张之间做出决定是多么困难！灵魂是坐在罪恶之屋里的影子吗？或者身体真的像佐丹奴·布鲁诺所想的那样存在于灵魂中吗？精神与物质的分离是一个谜，精神与物质的结合也是一个谜。

He began to wonder whether we should ever make psychology so absolute a science that each little spring of life would be revealed to us. As it was, we always misunderstood ourselves, and rarely understood others. Experience was of no ethical value. It was merely the name we gave to our mistakes. Men had, as a rule, regarded it as a mode of warning, had claimed for it a certain moral efficacy in the formation of character, had praised it as something that taught us what to follow and showed us what to avoid. But there was no motive power in experience. It was as little of an active cause as conscience itself. All that it really demonstrated was that our future would be the same as our past, and that the sin we had done once, and with loathing, we would do many times, and with joy.
他开始思考我们是否应该让心理学成为一门如此绝对的科学，以便向我们揭示生命的每一个小春天。事实上，我们总是误解自己，却很少理解别人。经验没有道德价值。这只是我们给自己的错误起的名字。人们通常认为它是一种警告方式，声称它在性格形成方面具有一定的道德功效，称赞它教会我们要遵循什么，告诉我们要避免什么。但经验却没有动力。它不像良心本身一样是一个积极的事业。它真正表明的是，我们的未来将与我们的过去一样，我们曾经犯下的罪过，带着厌恶，我们会带着喜悦多次犯下。

It was clear to him that the experimental method was the only method by which one could arrive at any scientific analysis of the passions; and certainly Dorian Gray was a subject made to his hand, and seemed to promise rich and fruitful results. His sudden mad love for Sibyl Vane was a psychological phenomenon of no small interest. There was no doubt that curiosity had much to do with it, curiosity and the desire for new experiences; yet it was not a simple but rather a very complex passion. What there was in it of the purely sensuous instinct of boyhood had been transformed by the workings of the imagination, changed into something that seemed to the boy himself to be remote from sense, and was for that very reason all the more dangerous. It was the passions about whose origin we deceived ourselves that tyrannized most strongly over us. Our weakest motives were those of whose nature we were conscious. It often happened that when we thought we were experimenting on others we were really experimenting on ourselves.
他很清楚，实验方法是人们能够对激情进行科学分析的唯一方法。当然，道林·格雷是他亲手打造的主题，而且似乎有望带来丰富而丰硕的成果。他对西比尔·文的突然疯狂的爱是一种引起不小的兴趣的心理现象。毫无疑问，好奇心和对新体验的渴望有很大关系。但这并不是一种简单的激情，而是一种非常复杂的激情。童年时期纯粹感性的本能，在想象力的作用下已经发生了转变，变成了对男孩本人来说似乎远离感觉的东西，正因为如此，才更加危险。我们欺骗了自己关于其起源的激情，它对我们的影响最为强烈。我们最薄弱的动机是那些我们意识到其本质的动机。经常发生这样的情况：当我们以为自己在别人身上做实验时，其实实际上是在自己身上做实验。

While Lord Henry sat dreaming on these things, a knock came to the door, and his valet entered, and reminded him it was time to dress for dinner. He got up and looked out into the street. The sunset had smitten into scarlet gold the upper windows of the houses opposite. The panes glowed like plates of heated metal. The sky above was like a faded rose. He thought of Dorian Gray’s young fiery-colored life, and wondered how it was all going to end.
当亨利勋爵坐在那里沉思这些事情时，有人敲门，他的贴身男仆走了进来，提醒他该穿衣服去吃晚饭了。他站起来，看着外面的街道。夕阳把对面房屋的窗户染成了猩红色的金色。窗玻璃像加热的金属板一样闪闪发光。头顶的天空就像一朵凋谢的玫瑰。他想起道林·格雷年轻时火热的一生，想知道这一切将如何结束。

When he arrived home, about half-past twelve o’clock, he saw a telegram lying on the hall-table. He opened it and found it was from Dorian. It was to tell him that he was engaged to be married to Sibyl Vane.
当他回到家时，大约十二点半，他看到大厅的桌子上放着一份电报。他打开一看，发现是多里安寄来的。这是为了告诉他，他已经与西比尔·文订婚了。

Chapter IV
第四章

I suppose you have heard the news, Basil?’ said Lord Henry on the following evening, as Hallward was shown into a little private room at the Bristol where dinner had been laid for three.
我想你已经听到这个消息了，巴兹尔？”第二天晚上，当霍尔华德被带进布里斯托尔酒店的一间小私人房间时，亨利勋爵说道，那里已经为三人准备了晚餐。

‘No, Harry,’ answered Hallward, giving his hat and coat to the bowing waiter. ‘What is it? Nothing about politics, I hope? They don’t interest me. There is hardly a single person in the House of Commons worth painting; though many of them would be the better for a little whitewashing.’
“不，哈利，”霍尔华德回答道，将帽子和外套递给鞠躬的侍者。 '它是什么？我希望与政治无关？他们对我不感兴趣。下议院里几乎没有一个人值得画；尽管他们中的许多人如果稍微粉饰一下会更好。

‘Dorian Gray is engaged to be married,’ said Lord Henry, watching him as he spoke.
“道林·格雷已经订婚了，”亨利勋爵边说边看着他。

Hallward turned perfectly pale, and a curious look flashed for a moment into his eyes, and then passed away, leaving them dull.’ Dorian engaged to be married!’ he cried. ‘Impossible!’
霍尔华德的脸色变得非常苍白，他的眼睛里闪现出一种好奇的神情，然后就消失了，留下了呆滞的目光。“多里安订婚了！”他喊道。 '不可能的！'

‘It is perfectly true.’
“这是完全正确的。”

‘To whom?’
'给谁？'

‘To some little actress or other.’
“给某个小女演员或其他人。”

‘I can’t believe it. Dorian is far too sensible.’
“我简直不敢相信。多里安太明智了。

‘Dorian is far too wise not to do foolish things now and then, my dear Basil.’
“多里安太聪明了，不会时不时地做一些愚蠢的事情，我亲爱的巴兹尔。”

‘Marriage is hardly a thing that one can do now and then, Harry,’ said Hallward, smiling.
“哈利，婚姻并不是一件可以偶尔做的事情，”霍尔华德微笑着说道。

‘Except in America. But I didn’t say he was married. I said he was engaged to be married. There is a great difference. I have a distinct remembrance of being married, but I have no recollection at all of being engaged. I am inclined to think that I never was engaged.’
“除了在美国。但我没说他结婚了。我说他订婚了。有很大的不同。我清楚地记得结婚的事，但完全不记得订婚的事。我倾向于认为我从未订婚。

‘But think of Dorian’s birth, and position, and wealth. It would be absurd for him to marry so much beneath him.’
“但是想想多里安的出生、地位和财富。对他来说，嫁给地位比他低的人是很荒谬的。”

‘If you want him to marry this girl, tell him that, Basil. He is sure to do it then. Whenever a man does a thoroughly stupid thing, it is always from the noblest motives.’
“如果你想让他娶这个女孩，就告诉他，巴兹尔。到时候他肯定会这么做。每当一个人做了一件彻底愚蠢的事情时，他总是出于最高尚的动机。

‘I hope the girl is good, Harry. I don’t want to see Dorian tied to some vile creature, who might degrade his nature and ruin his intellect.’
“我希望这个女孩一切都好，哈利。我不想看到多里安与一些邪恶的生物联系在一起，这些生物可能会降低他的本性并毁掉他的智力。

‘Oh, she is more than good—she is beautiful,’ murmured Lord Henry, sipping a glass of vermouth and orange-bitters. ‘Dorian says she is beautiful; and he is not often wrong about things of that kind. Your portrait of him has quickened his appreciation of the personal appearance of other people. It has had that excellent effect, among others. We are to see her to-night, if that boy doesn’t forget his appointment.’
“哦，她不仅好，而且很漂亮。”亨利勋爵低声说道，一边喝着一杯苦艾酒和橙子苦酒。 “多里安说她很漂亮；他在这类事情上并不经常犯错。你给他的肖像让他更快地欣赏别人的个人外表。除其他外，它已经取得了极好的效果。如果那个男孩没有忘记他的约会的话，我们今晚就要去见她。

‘But do you approve of it, Harry?’ asked Hallward, walking up and down the room, and biting his lip. ‘You can’t approve of it, really. It is some silly infatuation.’
“但是你同意吗，哈利？”霍尔华德在房间里走来走去，咬着嘴唇问道。 “你真的不能同意它。这是一种愚蠢的迷恋。

‘I never approve, or disapprove, of anything now. It is an absurd attitude to take towards life. We are not sent into the world to air our moral prejudices. I never take any notice of what common people say, and I never interfere with what charming people do. If a personality fascinates me, whatever the personality chooses to do is absolutely delightful to me. Dorian Gray falls in love with a beautiful girl who acts Shakespeare, and proposes to marry her. Why not? If he wedded Messalina he would be none the less interesting. You know I am not a champion of marriage. The real drawback to marriage is that it makes one unselfish. And unselfish people are colorless. They lack individuality. Still, there are certain temperaments that marriage makes more complex. They retain their egotism, and add to it many other egos. They are forced to have more than one life. They become more highly organized. Besides, every experience is of value, and, whatever one may say against marriage, it is certainly an experience. I hope that Dorian Gray will make this girl his wife, passionately adore her for six months, and then suddenly become fascinated by some one else. He would be a wonderful study.’
“我现在从不赞成或不赞成任何事情。这是一种荒谬的人生态度。我们来到这个世界并不是为了宣扬我们的道德偏见。我从不理会普通人的言论，也从不干涉有魅力的人的所作所为。如果一个人让我着迷，那么无论他选择做什么，我都绝对会感到高兴。道林·格雷爱上了一位扮演莎士比亚的美丽女孩，并向她求婚。为什么不？如果他与梅萨琳娜结婚，他仍然会很有趣。你知道我不是婚姻的捍卫者。婚姻的真正缺点是它让人变得无私。无私的人是没有色彩的。他们缺乏个性。尽管如此，婚姻还是使某些性格变得更加复杂。他们保留着自己的自我主义，并增加了许多其他的自我。他们被迫拥有不止一种生活。他们变得更加组织化。此外，每一次经历都是有价值的，而且，无论人们如何反对婚姻，它确实是一种经历。我希望道林·格雷能娶这个女孩为妻，热烈地爱她六个月，然后突然对另一个人着迷。他会是一个很棒的研究对象。

‘You don’t mean all that, Harry; you know you don’t. If Dorian Gray’s life were spoiled, no one would be sorrier than yourself. You are much better than you pretend to be.’
“你不是这个意思，哈利；你不是这个意思。”你知道你不知道。如果道林·格雷的生活被破坏了，没有人会比你更难过。你比你假装的要好得多。

Lord Henry laughed. ‘The reason we all like to think so well of others is that we are all afraid for ourselves. The basis of optimism is sheer terror. We think that we are generous because we credit our neighbor with those virtues that are likely to benefit ourselves. We praise the banker that we may overdraw our account, and find good qualities in the highwayman in the hope that he may spare our pockets. I mean everything that I have said. I have the greatest contempt for optimism. And as for a spoiled life, no life is spoiled but one whose growth is arrested. If you want to mar a nature, you have merely to reform it. But here is Dorian himself. He will tell you more than I can.’
亨利勋爵笑了。 “我们之所以喜欢把别人想得那么好，是因为我们都为自己担心。乐观的基础是纯粹的恐惧。我们认为自己很慷慨，因为我们相信邻居有那些可能使我们受益的美德。我们赞美银行家，让我们可以透支我们的账户；我们也发现拦路强盗的优点，希望他能省下我们的钱袋。我所说的一切都是认真的。我对乐观主义怀有极大的蔑视。至于被宠坏的生活，除了成长受阻的生命外，没有任何生命是被宠坏的。如果你想破坏一种本性，你只需改造它即可。但这是多里安本人。他会比我告诉你更多。

‘My dear Harry, my dear Basil, you must both congratulate me!’ said the boy, throwing off his evening cape with its satin-lined wings, and shaking each of his friends by the hand in turn. ‘I have never been so happy. Of course it is sudden: all really delightful things are. And yet it seems to me to be the one thing I have been looking for all my life.’ He was flushed with excitement and pleasure, and looked extraordinarily handsome.
“我亲爱的哈利，我亲爱的巴兹尔，你们一定要祝贺我！”男孩说着，甩掉了带有缎子衬里翅膀的晚礼服，依次握着他每个朋友的手。 ‘我从来没有这么高兴过。当然，它是突然的：所有真正令人愉快的事情都是突然的。但在我看来，这似乎是我一生都在寻找的东西。”他兴奋而愉悦，满脸通红，看上去格外英俊。

‘I hope you will always be very happy, Dorian,’ said Hallward, ‘but I don’t quite forgive you for not having let me know of your engagement. You let Harry know.’
“我希望你永远幸福，道林，”霍尔华德说，“但我不太原谅你没有让我知道你订婚的消息。你让哈利知道了。

‘And I don’t forgive you for being late for dinner,’ broke in Lord Henry, putting his hand on the lad’s shoulder, and smiling as he spoke. ‘Come, let us sit down and try what the new chef here is like, and then you will tell us how it all came about.’
“我不会原谅你晚餐迟到，”亨利勋爵插嘴道，他把手放在小伙子的肩膀上，边说边微笑。 “来吧，让我们坐下来尝试一下这里的新厨师是什么样的，然后你会告诉我们这一切是如何发生的。”

‘There is really not much to tell,’ cried Dorian, as they took their seats at the small round table. ‘What happened was simply this. After I left you yesterday evening, Harry, I had some dinner at that curious little Italian restaurant in Rupert Street, you introduced me to, and went down afterwards to the theatre. Sibyl was playing Rosalind. Of course the scenery was dreadful, and the Orlando absurd. But Sibyl! You should have seen her! When she came on in her boy’s dress she was perfectly wonderful. She wore a moss-colored velvet jerkin with cinnamon sleeves, slim brown cross-gartered hose, a dainty little green cap with a hawk’s feather caught in a jewel, and a hooded cloak lined with dull red. She had never seemed to me more exquisite. She had all the delicate grace of that Tanagra figurine that you have in your studio, Basil. Her hair clustered round her face like dark leaves round a pale rose. As for her acting—well, you will see her to-night. She is simply a born artist. I sat in the dingy box absolutely enthralled. I forgot that I was in London and in the nineteenth century. I was away with my love in a forest that no man had ever seen. After the performance was over I went behind, and spoke to her. As we were sitting together, suddenly there came a look into her eyes that I had never seen there before. My lips moved towards hers. We kissed each other. I can’t describe to you what I felt at that moment. It seemed to me that all my life had been narrowed to one perfect point of rose-colored joy. She trembled all over, and shook like a white narcissus. Then she flung herself on her knees and kissed my hands. I feel that I should not tell you all this, but I can’t help it. Of course our engagement is a dead secret. She has not even told her own mother. I don’t know what my guardians will say. Lord Radley is sure to be furious. I don’t care. I shall be of age in less than a year, and then I can do what I like. I have been right, Basil, haven’t I, to take my love out of poetry, and to find my wife in Shakespeare’s plays? Lips that Shakespeare taught to speak have whispered their secret in my ear. I have had the arms of Rosalind around me, and kissed Juliet on the mouth.’
“真的没什么可说的，”当他们在小圆桌旁坐下时，多里安喊道。 ‘发生的事情很简单。哈利，昨天晚上我离开你后，我在你介绍给我的鲁珀特街那家奇怪的意大利小餐馆吃了晚饭，然后去了剧院。西比尔扮演罗莎琳德。当然，风景很糟糕，奥兰多也很荒唐。但是西比尔！你应该见过她！当她穿上男孩的裙子出场时，她真是太棒了。她穿着一件带有肉桂色袖子的苔藓色天鹅绒背心，穿着细长的棕色交叉吊袜带，戴着一顶精致的绿色小帽子，帽子上镶嵌着一根宝石，还有一件带有暗红色衬里的连帽斗篷。在我看来，她从未如此精致过。她拥有你工作室里的塔纳格拉雕像的所有精致优雅，巴兹尔。她的头发簇拥在脸上，就像深色的叶子围绕着苍白的玫瑰。至于她的表演——好吧，你今晚就会看到她。她简直就是一个天生的艺术家。我坐在肮脏的盒子里，完全被迷住了。我忘记了我身处伦敦，身处十九世纪。我和我的爱人去了一片从未有人见过的森林。演出结束后，我走到后面，和她说话。当我们坐在一起时，她的眼睛里突然闪现出一种我以前从未见过的神情。我的嘴唇靠近她的。我们互相亲吻了。我无法向你描述我当时的感受。在我看来，我的一生似乎都被浓缩到了玫瑰色欢乐的完美时刻。她浑身颤抖，抖得像一朵白水仙。然后她跪下来亲吻我的手。我觉得我不应该告诉你这一切，但我无法控制。当然，我们的订婚是一个绝对的秘密。她甚至没有告诉自己的母亲。 我不知道我的监护人会说什么。拉德利勋爵肯定会勃然大怒。我不在乎。再过不到一年我就成年了，然后我就可以做我喜欢的事情了。巴兹尔，我把我的爱从诗歌中剔除出来，并在莎士比亚的戏剧中找到了我的妻子，这是对的，不是吗？莎士比亚教的嘴唇在我耳边低语着它们的秘密。我用罗莎琳德的手臂搂着我，亲吻了朱丽叶的嘴。’

‘Yes, Dorian, I suppose you were right,’ said Hallward, slowly.
“是的，多里安，我想你是对的，”霍尔华德慢慢地说。

‘Have you seen her to-day?’ asked Lord Henry.
“你今天见过她吗？”亨利勋爵问道。

Dorian Gray shook his head. ‘I left her in the forest of Arden, I shall find her in an orchard in Verona.’
道连·格雷摇摇头。 “我把她留在了阿尔登森林，我会在维罗纳的一个果园里找到她。”

Lord Henry sipped his champagne in a meditative manner. ‘At what particular point did you mention the word marriage, Dorian? and what did she say in answer? Perhaps you forgot all about it.’
亨利勋爵若有所思地喝着香槟。 “多里安，你在什么时候提到了婚姻这个词？她回答了什么？也许你把这一切都忘了。

‘My dear Harry, I did not treat it as a business transaction, and I did not make any formal proposal. I told her that I loved her, and she said she was not worthy to be my wife. Not worthy! Why, the whole world is nothing to me compared to her.’
‘亲爱的哈利，我并没有把它当作商业交易，我也没有提出任何正式的提议。我告诉她我爱她，她却说她不配做我的妻子。不值得！为什么，与她相比，整个世界对我来说都算不了什么。

‘Women are wonderfully practical,’ murmured Lord Henry,—‘much more practical than we are. In situations of that kind we often forget to say anything about marriage, and they always remind us.’
“女人非常实际，”亨利勋爵低声说道，“比我们实际得多。”在这种情况下，我们常常忘记谈论有关婚姻的事情，而他们总是提醒我们。

Hallward laid his hand upon his arm. ‘Don’t, Harry. You have annoyed Dorian. He is not like other men. He would never bring misery upon any one. His nature is too fine for that.’
霍尔华德把手放在手臂上。 “别这样，哈利。你惹恼了多里安。他不像其他人。他永远不会给任何人带来痛苦。他的本性太好了，不适合这样做。

Lord Henry looked across the table. ‘Dorian is never annoyed with me,’ he answered. ‘I asked the question for the best reason possible, for the only reason, indeed, that excuses one for asking any question,—simple curiosity. I have a theory that it is always the women who propose to us, and not we who propose to the women, except, of course, in middle-class life. But then the middle classes are not modern.’
亨利勋爵看着桌子对面。 “多里安从不生我的气，”他回答道。 “我问这个问题是出于最好的理由，事实上，唯一的理由可以让人们有理由提出任何问题，——简单的好奇心。我有一个理论：总是女人向我们求婚，而不是我们向女人求婚，当然，中产阶级生活除外。但中产阶级并不现代。”

Dorian Gray laughed, and tossed his head. ‘You are quite incorrigible, Harry; but I don’t mind. It is impossible to be angry with you. When you see Sibyl Vane you will feel that the man who could wrong her would be a beast without a heart. I cannot understand how any one can wish to shame what he loves. I love Sibyl Vane. I wish to place her on a pedestal of gold, and to see the world worship the woman who is mine. What is marriage? An irrevocable vow. And it is an irrevocable vow that I want to take. Her trust makes me faithful, her belief makes me good. When I am with her, I regret all that you have taught me. I become different from what you have known me to be. I am changed, and the mere touch of Sibyl Vane’s hand makes me forget you and all your wrong, fascinating, poisonous, delightful theories.’
道连·格雷大笑起来，摇摇头。 “你真是无可救药，哈利；但我不介意。不可能对你生气。当你看到Sibyl Vane时，你会觉得那个能够伤害她的男人就是一个没有心的野兽。我无法理解一个人怎么会希望羞辱他所爱的东西。我爱西比尔·文。我希望将她放在黄金基座上，并看到全世界都崇拜我的女人。什么是婚姻？不可撤销的誓言。这是我想要发下的不可撤销的誓言。她的信任让我忠诚，她的信念让我善良。当我和她在一起时，我后悔你教给我的一切。我变得与你所认识的我有所不同。我变了，只要西比尔·文的手一触，我就会忘记你和你所有错误的、迷人的、有毒的、令人愉快的理论。

‘You will always like me, Dorian,’ said Lord Henry. ‘Will you have some coffee, you fellows?—Waiter, bring coffee, and fine-champagne, and some cigarettes. No: don’t mind the cigarettes; I have some.— Basil, I can’t allow you to smoke cigars. You must have a cigarette. A cigarette is the perfect type of a perfect pleasure. It is exquisite, and it leaves one unsatisfied. What more can you want?— Yes, Dorian, you will always be fond of me. I represent to you all the sins you have never had the courage to commit.’
“你会永远喜欢我，多里安，”亨利勋爵说。 “伙计们，要喝点咖啡吗？——服务员，拿来咖啡、上等香槟和一些香烟。不：不介意香烟；我有一些。——巴兹尔，我不能让你抽雪茄。你必须有一支烟。香烟是一种完美的享受。其精美绝伦，令人不满意。你还想要什么呢？——是的，多里安，你会永远喜欢我。我向你代表了你从未有勇气犯下的所有罪恶。

‘What nonsense you talk, Harry!’ cried Dorian Gray, lighting his cigarette from a fire-breathing silver dragon that the waiter had placed on the table. ‘Let us go down to the theatre. When you see Sibyl you will have a new ideal of life. She will represent something to you that you have never known.’
“你胡说八道，哈利！”多里安·格雷喊道，他用侍者放在桌子上的一条喷火银龙点燃了香烟。 ‘我们去剧院吧。当你看到Sibyl你就会有新的生活理想。她将向你展示一些你从未了解过的东西。

‘I have known everything,’ said Lord Henry, with a sad look in his eyes, ‘but I am always ready for a new emotion. I am afraid that there is no such thing, for me at any rate. Still, your wonderful girl may thrill me. I love acting. It is so much more real than life. Let us go. Dorian, you will come with me.—I am so sorry, Basil, but there is only room for two in the brougham. You must follow us in a hansom.’
“我已经知道了一切，”亨利勋爵说道，眼中带着悲伤，“但我时刻准备着迎接新的情感。”恐怕至少对我来说，没有这样的事情。不过，你那出色的女孩可能会让我兴奋不已。我喜欢演戏。它比生活真实得多。让我们去。多里安，你跟我来吧。——很抱歉，巴兹尔，马车里只能容纳两个人。你必须乘坐双轮马车跟随我们。

They got up and put on their coats, sipping their coffee standing. Hallward was silent and preoccupied. There was a gloom over him. He could not bear this marriage, and yet it seemed to him to be better than many other things that might have happened. After a few moments, they all passed down-stairs. He drove off by himself, as had been arranged, and watched the flashing lights of the little brougham in front of him. A strange sense of loss came over him. He felt that Dorian Gray would never again be to him all that he had been in the past. His eyes darkened, and the crowded flaring streets became blurred to him. When the cab drew up at the doors of the theatre, it seemed to him that he had grown years older.
他们起身穿上外套，站着喝着咖啡。霍尔华德沉默不语，心事重重。他的心头一片阴郁。他无法忍受这段婚姻，但对他来说，这似乎比许多其他可能发生的事情要好。片刻后，他们都下了楼。他按照安排，自己开车走了，看着前面那辆小马车闪烁的灯光。一种奇怪的失落感袭上他的心头。他觉得道林·格雷对他来说再也不会像过去那样了。他的眼神暗了下来，拥挤的火光街道对他来说变得模糊了。当出租车停在剧院门口时，他感觉自己老了好几岁。

Chapter V
第五章

For some reason or other, the house was crowded that night, and the fat Jew manager who met them at the door was beaming from ear to ear with an oily, tremulous smile. He escorted them to their box with a sort of pompous humility, waving his fat jewelled hands, and talking at the top of his voice. Dorian Gray loathed him more than ever. He felt as if he had come to look for Miranda and had been met by Caliban. Lord Henry, upon the other hand, rather liked him. At least he declared he did, and insisted on shaking him by the hand, and assured him that he was proud to meet a man who had discovered a real genius and gone bankrupt over Shakespeare. Hallward amused himself with watching the faces in the pit. The heat was terribly oppressive, and the huge sunlight flamed like a monstrous dahlia with petals of fire. The youths in the gallery had taken off their coats and waistcoats and hung them over the side. They talked to each other across the theatre, and shared their oranges with the tawdry painted girls who sat by them. Some women were laughing in the pit; their voices were horribly shrill and discordant. The sound of the popping of corks came from the bar.
出于某种原因，那天晚上家里很拥挤，在门口迎接他们的那位肥胖的犹太经理满面笑容，脸上挂着油腻而颤抖的笑容。他带着一种傲慢的谦逊护送他们到包厢，挥舞着戴着珠宝的胖手，大声说话。道林·格雷比以往任何时候都更厌恶他。他感觉自己好像是来寻找米兰达的，却被卡利班遇见了。另一方面，亨利勋爵却相当喜欢他。至少他宣称他做到了，并坚持握着他的手，并向他保证，他很自豪能见到一个发现了真正天才并因莎士比亚而破产的人。霍尔华德看着坑里的面孔，觉得很有趣。炎热的天气令人窒息，巨大的阳光像一朵巨大的大丽花一样燃烧着火焰的花瓣。画廊里的年轻人都脱下了外套和背心，挂在一旁。他们穿过剧院互相交谈，并与坐在他们旁边的画着俗气的女孩分享他们的橙子。一些女人在坑里大笑；他们的声音刺耳得可怕，而且不和谐。酒吧里传来软木塞爆裂的声音。

‘What a place to find one’s divinity in!’ said Lord Henry.
“这是一个多么能找到神性的地方啊！”亨利勋爵说道。

‘Yes!’ answered Dorian Gray. ‘It was here I found her, and she is divine beyond all living things. When she acts you will forget everything. These common people here, with their coarse faces and brutal gestures, become quite different when she is on the stage. They sit silently and watch her. They weep and laugh as she wills them to do. She makes them as responsive as a violin. She spiritualizes them, and one feels that they are of the same flesh and blood as one’s self.’
“是的！”道林·格雷回答。 “我就是在这里找到了她，她是超越所有生物的神圣之物。当她行动时你会忘记一切。这里的普通人，面容粗鄙，举止残暴，当她在舞台上时，却变得截然不同。他们静静地坐着，看着她。他们按照她的意愿哭泣和欢笑。她让它们像小提琴一样灵敏。她将它们灵性化，让人感觉它们与自己有血有肉。

‘Oh, I hope not!’ murmured Lord Henry, who was scanning the occupants of the gallery through his opera-glass.
“哦，我希望不会！”亨利勋爵低声说道，他正通过他的歌剧镜扫视着画廊里的人。

‘Don’t pay any attention to him, Dorian,’ said Hallward. ‘I understand what you mean, and I believe in this girl. Any one you love must be marvellous, and any girl that has the effect you describe must be fine and noble. To spiritualize one’s age,—that is something worth doing. If this girl can give a soul to those who have lived without one, if she can create the sense of beauty in people whose lives have been sordid and ugly, if she can strip them of their selfishness and lend them tears for sorrows that are not their own, she is worthy of all your adoration, worthy of the adoration of the world. This marriage is quite right. I did not think so at first, but I admit it now. God made Sibyl Vane for you. Without her you would have been incomplete.’
“别理他，多里安，”霍尔华德说。 “我明白你的意思，我相信这个女孩。任何一个你爱的人一定很出色，任何一个有你描述的效果的女孩一定是精致而高贵的。让自己的年龄灵化——这是一件值得做的事情。如果这个女孩能给那些没有灵魂的人赋予灵魂，如果她能给生活肮脏丑陋的人们带来美感，如果她能剥去他们的自私，为那些不属于自己的悲伤而流泪。自己，她值得你所有的崇拜，值得全世界的崇拜。这段婚姻是非常正确的。起初我并不这么认为，但现在我承认了。上帝为你创造了西比尔·文恩。没有她，你就不完整。

‘Thanks, Basil,’ answered Dorian Gray, pressing his hand. ‘I knew that you would understand me. Harry is so cynical, he terrifies me. But here is the orchestra. It is quite dreadful, but it only lasts for about five minutes. Then the curtain rises, and you will see the girl to whom I am going to give all my life, to whom I have given everything that is good in me.’
“谢谢，巴兹尔。”道林·格雷握着他的手回答道。 ‘我就知道你会理解我的。哈利是如此愤世嫉俗，他让我害怕。但这里是管弦乐队。这是相当可怕的，但只持续了大约五分钟。然后幕布升起，你会看到我要为她奉献一生的女孩，我已经把我身上所有美好的东西都奉献给了她。

A quarter of an hour afterwards, amidst an extraordinary turmoil of applause, Sibyl Vane stepped on to the stage. Yes, she was certainly lovely to look at,—one of the loveliest creatures, Lord Henry thought, that he had ever seen. There was something of the fawn in her shy grace and startled eyes. A faint blush, like the shadow of a rose in a mirror of silver, came to her cheeks as she glanced at the crowded, enthusiastic house. She stepped back a few paces, and her lips seemed to tremble. Basil Hallward leaped to his feet and began to applaud. Dorian Gray sat motionless, gazing on her, like a man in a dream. Lord Henry peered through his opera-glass, murmuring, ‘Charming! charming!’
一刻钟后，在一片热烈的掌声中，西比尔·文走上了舞台。是的，她看起来确实很可爱——亨利勋爵想，她是他见过的最可爱的生物之一。她害羞的优雅和惊愕的眼神里有一些小鹿的味道。看着拥挤而热情的房子，她的脸颊上浮现出淡淡的红晕，就像银镜中玫瑰的影子。她后退了几步，嘴唇似乎在颤抖。巴兹尔·霍尔沃德跳了起来，开始鼓掌。道连·格雷一动不动地坐着，凝视着她，就像一个梦中的人。亨利勋爵透过他的手术镜凝视着，低声说道：“迷人！迷人！'

The scene was the hall of Capulet’s house, and Romeo in his pilgrim’s dress had entered with Mercutio and his friends. The band, such as it was, struck up a few bars of music, and the dance began. Through the crowd of ungainly, shabbily-dressed actors, Sibyl Vane moved like a creature from a finer world. Her body swayed, as she danced, as a plant sways in the water. The curves of her throat were like the curves of a white lily. Her hands seemed to be made of cool ivory.
场景是凯普莱特家的大厅，穿着朝圣者服装的罗密欧与茂丘西奥和他的朋友们一起走进来。乐队奏起了几小节音乐，舞蹈开始了。穿过一群笨拙、衣着破烂的演员，西比尔·文恩的动作就像来自美好世界的生物。她的身体随着她的舞蹈而摇摆，就像植物在水中摇曳一样。她喉咙的曲线就像白百合的曲线。她的双手仿佛是冰凉的象牙制成的。

Yet she was curiously listless. She showed no sign of joy when her eyes rested on Romeo. The few lines she had to speak,—
但她却出奇地无精打采。当她的眼睛落在罗密欧身上时，她没有表现出任何喜悦的迹象。她必须说的几句话——

Good pilgrim, you do wrong your hand too much,
善良的朝圣者，你的手太冤枉了，

Which mannerly devotion shows in this;
这体现了多么有礼貌的奉献精神；

For saints have hands that pilgrims’ hands do touch,
因为圣人的手是朝圣者的手所触碰的，

And palm to palm is holy palmers’ kiss,—
手掌对手掌是神圣的帕默之吻，——

with the brief dialogue that follows, were spoken in a thoroughly artificial manner. The voice was exquisite, but from the point of view of tone it was absolutely false. It was wrong in color. It took away all the life from the verse. It made the passion unreal.
接下来的简短对话是完全做作的。声音虽然优美，但从语气来看，绝对是假的。颜色不对。它夺走了这节经文的所有生命。这让激情变得不真实。

Dorian Gray grew pale as he watched her. Neither of his friends dared to say anything to him. She seemed to them to be absolutely incompetent. They were horribly disappointed.
道连·格雷看着她，脸色变得苍白。他的两个朋友都不敢对他说什么。在他们看来，她绝对无能。他们非常失望。

Yet they felt that the true test of any Juliet is the balcony scene of the second act. They waited for that. If she failed there, there was nothing in her.
然而他们认为，对朱丽叶来说，真正的考验是第二幕的阳台场景。他们等待着那个。如果她在这方面失败了，那么她就一无所有了。

She looked charming as she came out in the moonlight. That could not be denied. But the staginess of her acting was unbearable, and grew worse as she went on. Her gestures became absurdly artificial. She over-emphasized everything that she had to say. The beautiful passage,—
她在月光下走出来，显得十分迷人。这是不可否认的。但她表演的做作令人难以忍受，而且越演越糟。她的手势变得异常做作。她过分强调了她要说的一切。美丽的段落，——

Thou knowest the mask of night is on my face,
你知道我脸上戴着黑夜的面具，

Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek
不然我的脸颊就会泛起少女般的红晕

For that which thou hast heard me speak to-night,—
因为你今晚听到我说的话——

was declaimed with the painful precision of a school-girl who has been taught to recite by some second-rate professor of elocution. When she leaned over the balcony and came to those wonderful lines,—
朗诵时的精确度令人痛苦，就像一个被某个二流演讲教授教背诵的女学生一样。当她靠在阳台上，听到那些美妙的台词时——

Although I joy in thee,
虽然我因你而喜乐，

I have no joy of this contract to-night:
今晚我对这份合同没有任何喜悦：

It is too rash, too unadvised, too sudden;
太鲁莽、太不明智、太突然；

Too like the lightning, which doth cease to be
太像闪电了，不再存在

Ere one can say, ‘It lightens.’ Sweet, good-night!
还没有人能说：“它变亮了。”甜蜜的，晚安！

This bud of love by summer’s ripening breath
这爱的花蕾在夏天成熟的气息中绽放

May prove a beauteous flower when next we meet,—
当我们下次见面时，也许会成为一朵美丽的花——

she spoke the words as if they conveyed no meaning to her. It was not nervousness. Indeed, so far from being nervous, she seemed absolutely self-contained. It was simply bad art. She was a complete failure.
她说这些话时，好像这些话对她来说没有任何意义。这不是紧张。确实，她非但没有紧张，反而显得非常自持。这简直就是糟糕的艺术。她是一个彻底的失败者。

Even the common uneducated audience of the pit and gallery lost their interest in the play. They got restless, and began to talk loudly and to whistle. The Jew manager, who was standing at the back of the dress-circle, stamped and swore with rage. The only person unmoved was the girl herself.
就连剧场和画廊里那些没有受过教育的普通观众也对这部剧失去了兴趣。他们变得焦躁不安，开始大声说话并吹口哨。站在礼服圈最后面的犹太经理愤怒地跺着脚，咒骂着。唯一不为所动的就是女孩自己。

When the second act was over there came a storm of hisses, and Lord Henry got up from his chair and put on his coat. ‘She is quite beautiful, Dorian,’ he said, ‘but she can’t act. Let us go.’
第二幕结束时，一阵嘶嘶声响起，亨利勋爵从椅子上站起来，穿上外套。 “她很漂亮，多里安，”他说，“但她不会演戏。”让我们去。'

‘I am going to see the play through,’ answered the lad, in a hard, bitter voice. ‘I am awfully sorry that I have made you waste an evening, Harry. I apologize to both of you.’
“我会看完这出戏，”小伙子用严厉而痛苦的声音回答道。 “我非常抱歉让你浪费了一个晚上，哈利。我向你们俩道歉。

‘My dear Dorian, I should think Miss Vane was ill,’ interrupted Hallward. ‘We will come some other night.’
“我亲爱的多里安，我想韦恩小姐病了，”霍尔华德打断道。 “我们改天晚上再来。”

‘I wish she was ill,’ he rejoined. ‘But she seems to me to be simply callous and cold. She has entirely altered. Last night she was a great artist. To-night she is merely a commonplace, mediocre actress.’
“我希望她生病了，”他回答道。 “但在我看来，她只是冷酷无情。她已经完全变了。昨晚她是一位伟大的艺术家。今晚她只是一个平凡平庸的女演员。

‘Don’t talk like that about any one you love, Dorian. Love is a more wonderful thing than art.’
“不要这样谈论你所爱的人，多里安。爱是比艺术更美妙的事情。”

‘They are both simply forms of imitation,’ murmured Lord Henry. ‘But do let us go. Dorian, you must not stay here any longer. It is not good for one’s morals to see bad acting. Besides, I don’t suppose you will want your wife to act. So what does it matter if she plays Juliet like a wooden doll? She is very lovely, and if she knows as little about life as she does about acting, she will be a delightful experience. There are only two kinds of people who are really fascinating,—people who know absolutely everything, and people who know absolutely nothing. Good heavens, my dear boy, don’t look so tragic! The secret of remaining young is never to have an emotion that is unbecoming. Come to the club with Basil and myself. We will smoke cigarettes and drink to the beauty of Sibyl Vane. She is beautiful. What more can you want?’
“它们都只是模仿的形式，”亨利勋爵低声说道。 ‘但是请让我们走吧。多里安，你不能再留在这里了。看到不良行为对一个人的道德没有好处。另外，我想你不会希望你的妻子演戏。那么，如果她把朱丽叶演得像个木娃娃又有什么关系呢？她很可爱，如果她对生活的了解和对表演的了解一样少，那将是一次令人愉快的经历。只有两种人真正令人着迷，一种是无所不知的人，一种是一无所知的人。天哪，我亲爱的孩子，别看起来那么悲惨！保持年轻的秘诀就是永远不要有不恰当的情绪。我和巴兹尔一起来俱乐部吧。我们会为了西比尔·文的美丽而抽烟喝酒。她很漂亮。你还想要什么？

‘Please go away, Harry,’ cried the lad. ‘I really want to be alone.Basil, you don’t mind my asking you to go? Ah! can’t you see that my heart is breaking?’ The hot tears came to his eyes. His lips trembled, and, rushing to the back of the box, he leaned up against the wall, hiding his face in his hands.
“请走开，哈利，”小伙子喊道。 “我真的很想一个人呆着。巴兹尔，你不介意我请你走吧？”啊!你没看到我的心在碎吗？”热泪盈眶。他的嘴唇颤抖着，冲到包厢后面，靠在墙上，双手捂着脸。

‘Let us go, Basil,’ said Lord Henry, with a strange tenderness in his voice; and the two young men passed out together.
“我们走吧，巴兹尔。”亨利勋爵说道，声音里带着一种奇怪的温柔。两个年轻人一起昏倒了。

A few moments afterwards the footlights flared up, and the curtain rose on the third act. Dorian Gray went back to his seat. He looked pale, and proud, and indifferent. The play dragged on, and seemed interminable. Half of the audience went out, tramping in heavy boots, and laughing. The whole thing was a fiasco. The last act was played to almost empty benches.
过了一会儿，脚灯亮了，第三幕拉开了帷幕。道连·格雷回到了自己的座位上。他看上去苍白、骄傲、冷漠。这场戏拖得很长，似乎没完没了。一半的观众走出去，穿着沉重的靴子，笑着。整件事是一场惨败。最后一幕几乎空无一人。

As soon as it was over, Dorian Gray rushed behind the scenes into the greenroom. The girl was standing alone there, with a look of triumph on her face. Her eyes were lit with an exquisite fire. There was a radiance about her. Her parted lips were smiling over some secret of their own.
比赛一结束，道林·格雷就冲进幕后的休息室。少女孤零零地站在那里，脸上满是得意的神情。她的眼睛里闪烁着精致的火焰。她身上散发着光芒。她张开的嘴唇正为自己的某个秘密而微笑。

When he entered, she looked at him, and an expression of infinite joy came over her. ‘How badly I acted to-night, Dorian!’ she cried.
当他进来的时候，她看着他，脸上浮现出无限喜悦的神色。 “多里安，我今晚表现得多么糟糕！”她喊道。

‘Horribly!’ he answered, gazing at her in amazement,—‘horribly! It was dreadful. Are you ill? You have no idea what it was. You have no idea what I suffered.’
“太可怕了！”他惊讶地看着她，回答道——“太可怕了！”太可怕了。你是不是生病了？你不知道那是什么。你不知道我遭受了什么。

The girl smiled. ‘Dorian,’ she answered, lingering over his name with long-drawn music in her voice, as though it were sweeter than honey to the red petals of her lips,—‘Dorian, you should have understood. But you understand now, don’t you?’
女孩笑了。 “多里安，”她回答道，声音里萦绕着他的名字，声音悠长，仿佛她嘴唇上的红色花瓣比蜂蜜更甜，“多里安，你应该明白的。”但你现在明白了，不是吗？

‘Understand what?’ he asked, angrily.
“明白什么？”他愤怒地问道。

‘Why I was so bad to-night. Why I shall always be bad. Why I shall never act well again.’
‘为什么我今晚这么糟糕？为什么我永远都是坏人。为什么我再也不会表现得好了。

He shrugged his shoulders. ‘You are ill, I suppose. When you are ill you shouldn’t act. You make yourself ridiculous. My friends were bored. I was bored.’
他耸耸肩。 “我想你病了。”当你生病时，你不应该行动。你让自己变得可笑。我的朋友们很无聊。我很闷。'

She seemed not to listen to him. She was transfigured with joy. An ecstasy of happiness dominated her.
她似乎没有听他的话。她因喜悦而变了样。一种幸福的狂喜占据了她的全身。

‘Dorian, Dorian,’ she cried, ‘before I knew you, acting was the one reality of my life. It was only in the theatre that I lived. I thought that it was all true. I was Rosalind one night, and Portia the other. The joy of Beatrice was my joy, and the sorrows of Cordelia were mine also. I believed in everything. The common people who acted with me seemed to me to be godlike. The painted scenes were my world. I knew nothing but shadows, and I thought them real. You came,—oh, my beautiful love!—and you freed my soul from prison. You taught me what reality really is. To-night, for the first time in my life, I saw through the hollowness, the sham, the silliness, of the empty pageant in which I had always played. Tonight, for the first time, I became conscious that the Romeo was hideous, and old, and painted, that the moonlight in the orchard was false, that the scenery was vulgar, and that the words I had to speak were unreal, were not my words, not what I wanted to say. You had brought me something higher, something of which all art is but a reflection. You have made me understand what love really is. My love! my love! I am sick of shadows. You are more to me than all art can ever be. What have I to do with the puppets of a play? When I came on to-night, I could not understand how it was that everything had gone from me. Suddenly it dawned on my soul what it all meant. The knowledge was exquisite to me. I heard them hissing, and I smiled. What should they know of love? Take me away, Dorian— take me away with you, where we can be quite alone. I hate the stage. I might mimic a passion that I do not feel, but I cannot mimic one that burns me like fire. Oh, Dorian, Dorian, you understand now what it all means? Even if I could do it, it would be profanation for me to play at being in love. You have made me see that.’
“多里安，多里安，”她喊道，“在我认识你之前，演戏是我生活的唯一现实。我只住在剧院里。我以为这一切都是真的。某一晚我是罗莎琳德，另一晚我是波西娅。比阿特丽斯的快乐就是我的快乐，科迪莉亚的悲伤也是我的。我相信一切。在我看来，与我一起行动的普通人就像神一样。画出来的场景就是我的世界。除了影子我什么都不知道，而且我认为它们是真实的。你来了——哦，我美丽的爱人！——你把我的灵魂从监狱中释放了出来。你教会了我什么是现实。今晚，我有生以来第一次看穿了我一直参加的这场空洞盛会的空虚、虚假和愚蠢。今晚，我第一次意识到，罗密欧是丑陋的、古老的、涂漆的，果园里的月光是虚假的，风景是庸俗的，我要说的话是不真实的，不真实的。我的话，不是我想说的。你给我带来了更高的东西，所有艺术都只是其中的反映。你让我明白了什么是真正的爱。亲爱的！亲爱的！我厌倦了阴影。对我来说，你比所有的艺术都重要。我和戏剧中的木偶有什么关系？当我今晚上场时，我无法理解为什么一切都离我而去。突然间，我的灵魂明白了这一切意味着什么。这些知识对我来说非常精彩。我听到它们发出嘶嘶声，我笑了。关于爱情，他们应该知道什么？带我走吧，多里安——带我走吧，我们可以在那里独处。我讨厌舞台。我可以模仿一种我感觉不到的激情，但我无法模仿一种像火一样燃烧我的激情。哦，多里安，多里安，你现在明白这意味着什么了吗？ 就算我能做到，玩爱情对我来说也是一种亵渎。你让我看到了这一点。’

He flung himself down on the sofa, and turned away his face. ‘You have killed my love,’ he muttered.
他倒在沙发上，转过脸去。 “你杀了我的爱人，”他低声说道。

She looked at him in wonder, and laughed. He made no answer. She came across to him, and stroked his hair with her little fingers. She knelt down and pressed his hands to her lips. He drew them away, and a shudder ran through him.
她惊讶地看着他，笑了起来。他没有回答。她走到他身边，用小手指抚摸着他的头发。她跪下，将他的手按在自己的唇上。他把它们拉开，全身一阵颤抖。

Then he leaped up, and went to the door. ‘Yes,’ he cried, ‘you have killed my love. You used to stir my imagination. Now you don’t even stir my curiosity. You simply produce no effect. I loved you because you were wonderful, because you had genius and intellect, because you realized the dreams of great poets and gave shape and substance to the shadows of art. You have thrown it all away. You are shallow and stupid. My God! how mad I was to love you! What a fool I have been! You are nothing to me now. I will never see you again. I will never think of you. I will never mention your name. You don’t know what you were to me, once. Why, once …. Oh, I can’t bear to think of it! I wish I had never laid eyes upon you! You have spoiled the romance of my life. How little you can know of love, if you say it mars your art! What are you without your art? Nothing. I would have made you famous, splendid, magnificent. The world would have worshipped you, and you would have belonged to me. What are you now? A third-rate actress with a pretty face.’
然后他一跃而起，向门口走去。 “是的，”他喊道，“你杀了我的爱人。”你曾经激发过我的想象力。现在你甚至没有激起我的好奇心。你根本不会产生任何效果。我爱你，因为你很棒，因为你有天赋和智慧，因为你实现了伟大诗人的梦想，并为艺术的影子赋予了形状和实质。你已经把它全部扔掉了。你很浅薄又愚蠢。我的上帝！我多么疯狂地爱你！我真是个傻瓜！现在你对我来说什么都不是了。我再也见不到你了。我永远不会想起你。我永远不会提及你的名字。你不知道你曾经对我来说是什么。为什么，有一次……唉，想想都不敢想啊！我希望我从来没有见过你！你毁了我一生的浪漫。如果你说爱玷污了你的艺术，你对爱的了解是多么少啊！没有你的艺术，你算什么？没有什么。我会让你出名、辉煌、壮丽。全世界都会崇拜你，你就会属于我。你现在是什么？脸蛋漂亮的三流女演员。

The girl grew white, and trembled. She clinched her hands together, and her voice seemed to catch in her throat. ‘You are not serious, Dorian?’ she murmured. ‘You are acting.’
少女脸色惨白，浑身颤抖。她双手紧握，声音仿佛哽在喉咙里。 “你不是认真的吗，多里安？”她低声说道。 “你在演戏。”

‘Acting! I leave that to you. You do it so well,’ he answered, bitterly.
‘演戏！我把这个留给你。你做得很好，”他痛苦地回答。

She rose from her knees, and, with a piteous expression of pain in her face, came across the room to him. She put her hand upon his arm, and looked into his eyes. He thrust her back. ‘Don’t touch me!’ he cried.
她从膝盖上站起来，脸上带着痛苦的可怜表情，穿过房间来到他身边。她把手放在他的手臂上，看着他的眼睛。他把她推了回来。 “别碰我！”他喊道。

A low moan broke from her, and she flung herself at his feet, and lay there like a trampled flower. ‘Dorian, Dorian, don’t leave me!’ she whispered. ‘I am so sorry I didn’t act well. I was thinking of you all the time. But I will try,—indeed, I will try. It came so suddenly across me, my love for you. I think I should never have known it if you had not kissed me,—if we had not kissed each other. Kiss me again, my love. Don’t go away from me. I couldn’t bear it. Can’t you forgive me for to-night? I will work so hard, and try to improve. Don’t be cruel to me because I love you better than anything in the world. After all, it is only once that I have not pleased you. But you are quite right, Dorian. I should have shown myself more of an artist. It was foolish of me; and yet I couldn’t help it. Oh, don’t leave me, don’t leave me.’ A fit of passionate sobbing choked her. She crouched on the floor like a wounded thing, and Dorian Gray, with his beautiful eyes, looked down at her, and his chiselled lips curled in exquisite disdain. There is always something ridiculous about the passions of people whom one has ceased to love. Sibyl Vane seemed to him to be absurdly melodramatic. Her tears and sobs annoyed him.
她发出一声低沉的呻吟，扑倒在他脚边，像一朵被践踏的花朵一样躺在那里。 “多里安，多里安，别离开我！”她低声说道。 ‘我很抱歉我没有表现得很好。我一直在想你。但我会尝试——确实，我会尝试。我对你的爱来得太突然了。我想，如果你没有亲吻我，如果我们没有亲吻对方，我永远不会知道这一点。再吻我一次，我的爱人。别离开我。我无法忍受。今晚你就不能原谅我吗？我会努力工作，努力进步。不要对我残忍，因为我比世界上任何人都更爱你。毕竟只有一次，我没有让你高兴过。但你说得很对，多里安。我应该表现得更像一个艺术家。我真是愚蠢极了。但我还是忍不住。噢，不要离开我，不要离开我。”一阵激烈的抽泣让她窒息。她像受伤的东西一样蹲在地板上，道林·格雷用他美丽的眼睛低头看着她，轮廓分明的嘴唇带着精致的轻蔑卷起。一个人不再爱的人的激情总是有些可笑的。在他看来，西比尔·文的情节戏剧性得荒唐可笑。她的眼泪和抽泣让他很恼火。

‘I am going,’ he said at last, in his calm, clear voice. ‘I don’t wish to be unkind, but I can’t see you again. You have disappointed me.’
“我走了，”他最后用平静而清晰的声音说道。 “我不想对你不友善，但我再也见不到你了。”你让我很失望。

She wept silently, and made no answer, but crept nearer to him. Her little hands stretched blindly out, and appeared to be seeking for him. He turned on his heel, and left the room. In a few moments he was out of the theatre.
她默默地哭泣，没有回答，只是蹑手蹑脚地靠近他。她的小手盲目地伸出来，似乎在寻找他。他转身离开了房间。不一会儿，他就走出了剧院。

Where he went to, he hardly knew. He remembered wandering through dimly-lit streets with gaunt black-shadowed archways and evil-looking houses. Women with hoarse voices and harsh laughter had called after him. Drunkards had reeled by cursing, and chattering to themselves like monstrous apes. He had seen grotesque children huddled upon door-steps, and had heard shrieks and oaths from gloomy courts.
他去了哪里，他几乎不知道。他记得自己在灯光昏暗的街道上漫步，街道上有荒凉的黑影拱门和看上去很邪恶的房子。声音沙哑、笑声刺耳的女人们在他身后喊道。醉汉们像可怕的猿猴一样咒骂、自言自语，感到头晕目眩。他见过怪诞的孩子们挤在门阶上，也听到过阴暗的法庭里传出的尖叫声和咒骂声。

When the dawn was just breaking he found himself at Covent Garden. Huge carts filled with nodding lilies rumbled slowly down the polished empty street. The air was heavy with the perfume of the flowers, and their beauty seemed to bring him an anodyne for his pain. He followed into the market, and watched the men unloading their wagons. A white-smocked carter offered him some cherries. He thanked him, wondered why he refused to accept any money for them, and began to eat them listlessly. They had been plucked at midnight, and the coldness of the moon had entered into them. A long line of boys carrying crates of striped tulips, and of yellow and red roses, defiled in front of him, threading their way through the huge jadegreen piles of vegetables. Under the portico, with its gray sunbleached pillars, loitered a troop of draggled bareheaded girls, waiting for the auction to be over. After some time he hailed a hansom and drove home. The sky was pure opal now, and the roofs of the houses glistened like silver against it. As he was passing through the library towards the door of his bedroom, his eye fell upon the portrait Basil Hallward had painted of him. He started back in surprise, and then went over to it and examined it. In the dim arrested light that struggled through the cream-colored silk blinds, the face seemed to him to be a little changed. The expression looked different. One would have said that there was a touch of cruelty in the mouth. It was certainly curious.
天刚破晓时，他就到了考文特花园。装满百合花的大车缓缓地沿着光洁的空荡荡的街道隆隆驶过。空气中弥漫着浓郁的花香，它们的美丽似乎为他的痛苦带来了止痛剂。他跟着走进市场，看着人们卸下马车。一位穿着白色工作服的卡特递给他一些樱桃。他谢过他，奇怪他为什么不肯收钱，然后无精打采地吃起来。它们是在半夜被采摘的，月光的寒冷已经进入了它们的体内。一长串男孩抬着一箱箱条纹郁金香、黄色和红色玫瑰，在他面前被玷污，穿过巨大的翠绿蔬菜堆。门廊下，灰色的柱子被阳光晒得褪色，一群拖着拖沓的光头女孩在等待拍卖结束。过了一会儿，他叫了一辆双轮马车，开车回家。天空变成了纯蛋白石色，房屋的屋顶在天空的映衬下闪闪发光。当他穿过图书馆走向卧室门口时，他的目光落在巴兹尔·霍尔沃德为他画的肖像上。他惊讶地向后退了一步，然后走过去仔细检查。昏暗的光线透过奶油色的丝绸百叶窗，在他看来，那张脸似乎发生了一些变化。表情看起来不一样了。不得不说，嘴里带着一丝残忍。这当然很好奇。

He turned round, and, walking to the window, drew the blinds up. The bright dawn flooded the room, and swept the fantastic shadows into dusky corners, where they lay shuddering. But the strange expression that he had noticed in the face of the portrait seemed to linger there, to be more intensified even. The quivering, ardent sunlight showed him the lines of cruelty round the mouth as clearly as if he had been looking into a mirror after he had done some dreadful thing.
他转过身，走到窗前，拉上了百叶窗。明亮的黎明洒满了整个房间，将那些奇异的影子扫进了昏暗的角落，他们躺在那里瑟瑟发抖。但他在肖像脸上注意到的奇怪表情似乎仍然存在，甚至更加强烈。颤抖的、炽热的阳光让他嘴角周围的残酷皱纹清晰可见，就像他在做了一件可怕的事情后照镜子一样。

He winced, and, taking up from the table an oval glass framed in ivory Cupids, that Lord Henry had given him, he glanced hurriedly into it. No line like that warped his red lips. What did it mean?
他皱起眉头，从桌上拿起亨利勋爵送给他的一个镶有象牙丘比特边框的椭圆形玻璃杯，他匆匆看了一眼。没有那样的线条扭曲他的红唇。这意味着什么？

He rubbed his eyes, and came close to the picture, and examined it again. There were no signs of any change when he looked into the actual painting, and yet there was no doubt that the whole expression had altered. It was not a mere fancy of his own. The thing was horribly apparent.
他揉了揉眼睛，走近那幅画，再次审视起来。仔细一看，这幅画并没有任何变化的迹象，但毫无疑问的是，整个表情都变了。这不仅仅是他自己的幻想。这件事非常明显。

He threw himself into a chair, and began to think. Suddenly there flashed across his mind what he had said in Basil Hallward’s studio the day the picture had been finished. Yes, he remembered it perfectly. He had uttered a mad wish that he himself might remain young, and the portrait grow old; that his own beauty might be untarnished, and the face on the canvas bear the burden of his passions and his sins; that the painted image might be seared with the lines of suffering and thought, and that he might keep all the delicate bloom and loveliness of his then just conscious boyhood. Surely his prayer had not been answered? Such things were impossible. It seemed monstrous even to think of them. And, yet, there was the picture before him, with the touch of cruelty in the mouth.
他一屁股坐在椅子上，开始思考。突然，他的脑海中闪现出这幅画完成那天他在巴兹尔·霍尔沃德的工作室里所说的话。是的，他记得很清楚。他曾发过一个疯狂的愿望，希望自己能永葆青春，而画像却能变老。他自己的美丽不会受到玷污，画布上的脸承受着他的激情和罪恶的重担；绘画中的形象可能会被痛苦和思想的线条所烙印，而他可能会保留他当时刚刚意识到的童年的所有精致的花朵和可爱。他的祈祷肯定没有得到回应吧？这样的事情是不可能的。甚至连想想它们都觉得很可怕。然而，眼前的画面却是这样，嘴里带着残忍的味道。

Cruelty! Had he been cruel? It was the girl’s fault, not his. He had dreamed of her as a great artist, had given his love to her because he had thought her great. Then she had disappointed him. She had been shallow and unworthy. And, yet, a feeling of infinite regret came over him, as he thought of her lying at his feet sobbing like a little child. He remembered with what callousness he had watched her. Why had he been made like that? Why had such a soul been given to him? But he had suffered also. During the three terrible hours that the play had lasted, he had lived centuries of pain, aeon upon aeon of torture. His life was well worth hers. She had marred him for a moment, if he had wounded her for an age. Besides, women were better suited to bear sorrow than men. They lived on their emotions. They only thought of their emotions. When they took lovers, it was merely to have some one with whom they could have scenes. Lord Henry had told him that, and Lord Henry knew what women were. Why should he trouble about Sibyl Vane? She was nothing to him now.
残酷！他很残忍吗？这是女孩的错，不是他的。他梦想她成为一位伟大的艺术家，并给予她爱，因为他认为她伟大。那么她就让他失望了。她曾是肤浅的、不值得的。然而，当他想到她像个小孩子一样躺在他脚边抽泣时，他心中涌上无限的遗憾。他记得自己当时是多么冷酷无情地看着她。为什么他会变成这样？为什么要给他这样的灵魂？但他也曾受过苦。在这出戏持续的可怕的三个小时里，他经历了几个世纪的痛苦，亿万年的折磨。他的命值得她。如果他伤害了她一段时间，她也伤害了他片刻。而且，女人比男人更适合承受悲伤。他们靠情感生活。他们只想到自己的情绪。他们找情人，只是为了找个可以一起看戏的人。亨利勋爵告诉过他，亨利勋爵知道女人是什么。他为什么要为西比尔·文烦恼呢？现在她对他来说什么都不是了。

But the picture? What was he to say of that? It held the secret of his life, and told his story. It had taught him to love his own beauty. Would it teach him to loathe his own soul? Would he ever look at it again?
但图片呢？对此他该怎么说呢？它蕴藏着他的生活秘密，讲述着他的故事。它教会了他热爱自己的美丽。这会教他厌恶自己的灵魂吗？他还会再看一遍吗？

No; it was merely an illusion wrought on the troubled senses. The horrible night that he had passed had left phantoms behind it. Suddenly there had fallen upon his brain that tiny scarlet speck that makes men mad. The picture had not changed. It was folly to think so.
不;这只是困扰感官的幻觉。他度过的那个可怕的夜晚留下了幻影。突然，他的脑子里出现了那个让人发狂的猩红色小斑点。图片没有改变。这么想是愚蠢的。

Yet it was watching him, with its beautiful marred face and its cruel smile. Its bright hair gleamed in the early sunlight. Its blue eyes met his own. A sense of infinite pity, not for himself, but for the painted image of himself, came over him. It had altered already, and would alter more. Its gold would wither into gray. Its red and white roses would die. For every sin that he committed, a stain would fleck and wreck its fairness. But he would not sin. The picture, changed or unchanged, would be to him the visible emblem of conscience. He would resist temptation. He would not see Lord Henry any more,—would not, at any rate, listen to those subtle poisonous theories that in Basil Hallward’s garden had first stirred within him the passion for impossible things. He would go back to Sibyl Vane, make her amends, marry her, try to love her again. Yes, it was his duty to do so. She must have suffered more than he had. Poor child! He had been selfish and cruel to her. The fascination that she had exercised over him would return. They would be happy together. His life with her would be beautiful and pure.
然而它却在注视着他，带着美丽的、伤痕累累的脸和残酷的微笑。它明亮的头发在清晨的阳光下闪闪发光。它的蓝眼睛与他的眼睛相遇。一种无限的怜悯感涌上心头，不是为了他自己，而是为了他自己的形象。它已经改变了，而且还会改变更多。它的金色会枯萎成灰色。它的红玫瑰和白玫瑰会死。他犯下的每一个罪过，都会留下污点，破坏它的公平。但他不会犯罪。这幅画，无论改变或不变，对他来说都是良心的可见象征。他会抵制诱惑。他不会再见到亨利勋爵了——无论如何，他不会再听那些微妙的、有毒的理论，这些理论是在巴兹尔·霍尔华德的花园里首先激起他内心对不可能事物的热情的。他会回到西比尔·文身边，向她赔罪，娶她，并尝试再次爱她。是的，这样做是他的职责。她一定比他受过更多的苦。可怜的孩子！他对她很自私，也很残忍。她对他的迷恋又会回来。他们在一起会很幸福的。和她在一起，他的生活将会是美好而纯洁的。

He got up from his chair, and drew a large screen right in front of the portrait, shuddering as he glanced at it. ‘How horrible!’ he murmured to himself, and he walked across to the window and opened it. When he stepped out on the grass, he drew a deep breath. The fresh morning air seemed to drive away all his sombre passions. He thought only of Sibyl Vane. A faint echo of his love came back to him. He repeated her name over and over again. The birds that were singing in the dew-drenched garden seemed to be telling the flowers about her.
他从椅子上站起来，在肖像前画了一个大屏幕，看了一眼，不禁打了个寒颤。 “太可怕了！”他自言自语道，然后走到窗户前，打开了窗户。当他踏上草地时，他深深地吸了一口气。清晨清新的空气似乎驱走了他所有忧郁的激情。他只想到西比尔·文。他的爱的微弱回响又回到了他的身边。他一遍又一遍地重复着她的名字。露珠浸湿的花园里，鸟儿在歌唱，似乎在向花儿诉说她的事。

Chapter VI
第六章

It was long past noon when he awoke. His valet had crept several times into the room on tiptoe to see if he was stirring, and had wondered what made his young master sleep so late. Finally his bell sounded, and Victor came in softly with a cup of tea, and a pile of letters, on a small tray of old Sèvres china, and drew back the olive-satin curtains, with their shimmering blue lining, that hung in front of the three tall windows.
当他醒来的时候，已经过了中午了。贴身男仆好几次蹑手蹑脚地进屋看看他有没有动静，心想是什么让少爷睡得这么晚。最后，铃声响起，维克多轻手轻脚地进来，端着一杯茶和一叠信，放在一个装着旧塞夫尔瓷器的小托盘上，拉开挂在前面的橄榄缎窗帘，上面有闪闪发光的蓝色衬里。三扇高大的窗户。

‘Monsieur has well slept this morning,’ he said, smiling.
“先生今天早上睡得很好，”他微笑着说道。

‘What o’clock is it, Victor?’ asked Dorian Gray, sleepily.
“现在几点了，维克多？”道林·格雷睡眼惺忪地问道。

‘One hour and a quarter, monsieur.’
“一小时一刻钟，先生。”

How late it was! He sat up, and, having sipped some tea, turned over his letters. One of them was from Lord Henry, and had been brought by hand that morning. He hesitated for a moment, and then put it aside. The others he opened listlessly. They contained the usual collection of cards, invitations to dinner, tickets for private views, programmes of charity concerts, and the like, that are showered on fashionable young men every morning during the season. There was a rather heavy bill, for a chased silver Louis-Quinze toilet-set, that he had not yet had the courage to send on to his guardians, who were extremely old-fashioned people and did not realize that we live in an age when only unnecessary things are absolutely necessary to us; and there were several very courteously worded communications from Jermyn Street money-lenders offering to advance any sum of money at a moment’s notice and at the most reasonable rates of interest.
多么晚啊！他坐起来，喝了口茶，翻了翻信。其中一封是亨利勋爵寄来的，是那天早上专人送来的。他犹豫了一下，然后把它放在一边。其他的他无精打采地打开。其中包括通常收集的卡片、晚餐邀请函、私人观看门票、慈善音乐会节目等，在这个季节每天早上都会向时尚的年轻人大量发送。有一张相当沉重的账单，是一套雕花的银色路易·昆兹马桶套装，他还没有勇气把这张账单寄给他的监护人，他们都是非常守旧的人，没有意识到我们生活在一个时代。当只有不必要的东西对我们来说是绝对必要的时候；杰明街放债人也发出了几封措辞非常礼貌的信函，表示可以立即以最合理的利率预付任何一笔钱。

After about ten minutes he got up, and, throwing on an elaborate dressing-gown, passed into the onyx-paved bath-room. The cool water refreshed him after his long sleep. He seemed to have forgotten all that he had gone through. A dim sense of having taken part in some strange tragedy came to him once or twice, but there was the unreality of a dream about it.
大约十分钟后，他起身，披上一件精致的晨衣，走进铺有玛瑙的浴室。凉爽的水让他在长时间的睡眠后恢复了活力。他似乎已经忘记了自己所经历的一切。有那么一两次，他隐隐约约地感觉到自己卷入了某种奇怪的悲剧之中，但又感觉像在做梦一样不真实。

As soon as he was dressed, he went into the library and sat down to a light French breakfast, that had been laid out for him on a small round table close to an open window. It was an exquisite day. The warm air seemed laden with spices. A bee flew in, and buzzed round the blue-dragon bowl, filled with sulphur-yellow roses, that stood in front of him. He felt perfectly happy.
他一穿好衣服，就走进图书馆，坐下来享用一顿清淡的法式早餐，早餐已经摆在靠近开着的窗户的小圆桌上。这是美好的一天。温暖的空气似乎充满了香料。一只蜜蜂飞了进来，在他面前的青龙碗周围嗡嗡地飞，碗里盛满了硫黄色的玫瑰花。他感到非常幸福。

Suddenly his eye fell on the screen that he had placed in front of the portrait, and he started.
突然，他的目光落在了肖像前的屏风上，他吃了一惊。

‘Too cold for Monsieur?’ asked his valet, putting an omelette on the table. ‘I shut the window?’
“对先生来说太冷了吗？”他的男仆一边问，一边把煎蛋放在桌子上。 “我关上了窗户吗？”

Dorian shook his head. ‘I am not cold,’ he murmured.
多里安摇了摇头。 “我不冷，”他低声说道。

Was it all true? Had the portrait really changed? Or had it been simply his own imagination that had made him see a look of evil where there had been a look of joy? Surely a painted canvas could not alter? The thing was absurd. It would serve as a tale to tell Basil some day. It would make him smile.
这一切都是真的吗？肖像真的变了吗？又或者只是他自己的想象，让他原本欢喜的神色中，却出现了邪恶的神色？画好的画布肯定不能改变吗？这件事太荒谬了。有一天，这将作为一个故事告诉巴兹尔。这会让他微笑。

And, yet, how vivid was his recollection of the whole thing! First in the dim twilight, and then in the bright dawn, he had seen the touch of cruelty in the warped lips. He almost dreaded his valet leaving the room. He knew that when he was alone he would have to examine the portrait. He was afraid of certainty. When the coffee and cigarettes had been brought and the man turned to go, he felt a mad desire to tell him to remain. As the door closed behind him he called him back. The man stood waiting for his orders. Dorian looked at him for a moment. ‘I am not at home to any one, Victor,’ he said, with a sigh. The man bowed and retired.
然而，他对整件事的记忆是多么清晰啊！先是在昏暗的暮色中，然后在明亮的黎明中，他在扭曲的嘴唇上看到了一丝残忍。他几乎害怕他的贴身男仆离开房间。他知道，当他独自一人时，他必须检查这幅肖像。他害怕确定性。当咖啡和香烟送来，那人转身要走时，他强烈地想要让他留下来。当门在他身后关上时，他叫住了他。那人站在那儿等待他的命令。多里安看了他一会儿。 “我对任何人都不自在，维克多，”他叹了口气说道。那人鞠了一躬，退了出去。

He rose from the table, lit a cigarette, and flung himself down on a luxuriously-cushioned couch that stood facing the screen. The screen was an old one of gilt Spanish leather, stamped and wrought with a rather florid Louis-Quatorze pattern. He scanned it curiously, wondering if it had ever before concealed the secret of a man’s life.
他从桌子上站起来，点燃一支香烟，然后一屁股坐在一张面向屏幕的豪华沙发上。屏风是一块旧的镀金西班牙皮革制成的，上面印有相当华丽的路易斯·奎托兹图案。他好奇地扫视着它，想知道它是否曾经隐藏过一个人的生活秘密。

Should he move it aside, after all? Why not let it stay there? What was the use of knowing? If the thing was true, it was terrible. If it was not true, why trouble about it? But what if, by some fate or deadlier chance, other eyes than his spied behind, and saw the horrible change? What should he do if Basil Hallward came and asked to look at his own picture? He would be sure to do that. No; the thing had to be examined, and at once. Anything would be better than this dreadful state of doubt.
他到底应该把它移到一边吗？为什么不让它留在那里呢？知道了有什么用呢？如果事情是真的，那就太可怕了。如果不是真的，何必为此烦恼呢？但是，如果由于某种命运或更致命的机会，除了他之外还有其他眼睛在背后窥探，并看到了可怕的变化怎么办？如果巴兹尔·霍尔沃德过来要求看自己的照片，他该怎么办？他一定会这么做的。不;必须立即检查这件事。任何事情都会比这种可怕的怀疑状态更好。

He got up, and locked both doors. At least he would be alone when he looked upon the mask of his shame. Then he drew the screen aside, and saw himself face to face. It was perfectly true. The portrait had altered.
他站起来，锁上了两扇门。至少，当他看到羞耻的面具时，他是孤独的。然后他把屏风拉到一边，看到了自己的面对面。这是完全正确的。肖像已经改变。

As he often remembered afterwards, and always with no small wonder, he found himself at first gazing at the portrait with a feeling of almost scientific interest. That such a change should have taken place was incredible to him. And yet it was a fact. Was there some subtle affinity between the chemical atoms, that shaped themselves into form and color on the canvas, and the soul that was within him? Could it be that what that soul thought, they realized?—that what it dreamed, they made true? Or was there some other, more terrible reason? He shuddered, and felt afraid, and, going back to the couch, lay there, gazing at the picture in sickened horror.
正如他事后经常回忆的那样，他发现自己一开始凝视这幅肖像时带着一种近乎科学的兴趣，这让他总是感到很惊讶。竟然会发生这样的改变，令他难以置信。但这是事实。画布上的化学原子与他内心的灵魂之间是否存在某种微妙的亲和力？难道那个灵魂所想的，他们实现了？——它梦想的，他们实现了？还是还有其他更可怕的原因？他颤抖着，感到害怕，然后回到沙发上，躺在那里，以令人作呕的恐惧盯着那幅画。

One thing, however, he felt that it had done for him. It had made him conscious how unjust, how cruel, he had been to Sibyl Vane. It was not too late to make reparation for that. She could still be his wife. His unreal and selfish love would yield to some higher influence, would be transformed into some nobler passion, and the portrait that Basil Hallward had painted of him would be a guide to him through life, would be to him what holiness was to some, and conscience to others, and the fear of God to us all. There were opiates for remorse, drugs that could lull the moral sense to sleep. But here was a visible symbol of the degradation of sin. Here was an ever-present sign of the ruin men brought upon their souls.
然而，有一件事他觉得这对他有好处。这让他意识到他对西比尔·文是多么不公正、多么残忍。对此进行赔偿还为时不晚。她仍然可以是他的妻子。他不真实和自私的爱会屈服于某种更高的影响，会转化为某种更高尚的激情，巴兹尔·霍尔华德为他画的肖像将成为他一生的指南，对他来说就像圣洁对某些人来说一样，并且对他人来说是良心，对我们所有人来说是敬畏上帝。有用来悔恨的鸦片，有可以让道德意识入睡的药物。但这是罪恶堕落的明显象征。这是人们给自己的灵魂带来毁灭的一个永远存在的迹象。

Three o’clock struck, and four, and half-past four, but he did not stir. He was trying to gather up the scarlet threads of life, and to weave them into a pattern; to find his way through the sanguine labyrinth of passion through which he was wandering. He did not know what to do, or what to think. Finally, he went over to the table and wrote a passionate letter to the girl he had loved, imploring her forgiveness, and accusing himself of madness. He covered page after page with wild words of sorrow, and wilder words of pain. There is a luxury in self-reproach. When we blame ourselves we feel that no one else has a right to blame us. It is the confession, not the priest, that gives us absolution. When Dorian Gray had finished the letter, he felt that he had been forgiven.
三点钟敲响了，四点钟敲响了，四点半敲响了，但他一动不动。他试图收集生命的猩红丝线，并将它们编织成图案；在他徘徊的热情的激情迷宫中找到出路。他不知道该做什么，也不知道该想什么。最后，他走到桌边，给他所爱的女孩写了一封热情洋溢的信，恳求她的原谅，并指责自己的疯狂。他一页又一页地写满了悲伤的狂野话语，以及更加狂野的痛苦话语。自责是一种奢侈。当我们责备自己时，我们会觉得没有人有权责备我们。给予我们赦免的是忏悔，而不是神父。当道林·格雷写完这封信时，他觉得自己已经被原谅了。

Suddenly there came a knock to the door, and he heard Lord Henry’s voice outside. ‘My dear Dorian, I must see you. Let me in at once. I can’t bear your shutting yourself up like this.’
突然有人敲门，他听到外面亨利勋爵的声音。 “我亲爱的多里安，我一定要见你。立刻让我进去。我无法忍受你这样把自己关起来。”

He made no answer at first, but remained quite still. The knocking still continued, and grew louder. Yes, it was better to let Lord Henry in, and to explain to him the new life he was going to lead, to quarrel with him if it became necessary to quarrel, to part if parting was inevitable. He jumped up, drew the screen hastily across the picture, and unlocked the door.
他一开始没有回答，但还是一动不动。敲门声还在继续，而且越来越响。是的，最好让亨利勋爵进来，向他解释他将要过的新生活，如果有必要吵架就和他吵架，如果不可避免的话就分手。他跳起来，急忙把画面拉到照片上，然后打开门。

‘I am so sorry for it all, my dear boy,’ said Lord Henry, coming in. ‘But you must not think about it too much.’
“我对这一切感到非常抱歉，我亲爱的孩子，”亨利勋爵进来时说道，“但是你不能想太多。”

‘Do you mean about Sibyl Vane?’ asked Dorian.
“你是说西比尔·文吗？”多里安问。

‘Yes, of course,’ answered Lord Henry, sinking into a chair, and slowly pulling his gloves off. ‘It is dreadful, from one point of view, but it was not your fault. Tell me, did you go behind and see her after the play was over?’
“是的，当然，”亨利勋爵回答道，他坐进椅子里，慢慢地脱下手套。 “从某个角度来看，这很可怕，但这不是你的错。告诉我，戏结束后你有没有去后面看她？

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘I felt sure you had. Did you make a scene with her?’
“我确信你有。你和她大吵大闹了吗？

‘I was brutal, Harry,—perfectly brutal. But it is all right now. I am not sorry for anything that has happened. It has taught me to know myself better.’
“我很残酷，哈利——非常残酷。但现在一切都好了。我对所发生的一切并不感到遗憾。它教会我更好地了解自己。

‘Ah, Dorian, I am so glad you take it in that way! I was afraid I would find you plunged in remorse, and tearing your nice hair.’
‘啊，多里安，我很高兴你这么想！我担心我会发现你陷入悔恨之中，撕扯你漂亮的头发。

‘I have got through all that,’ said Dorian, shaking his head, and smiling. ‘I am perfectly happy now. I know what conscience is, to begin with. It is not what you told me it was. It is the divinest thing in us. Don’t sneer at it, Harry, any more,—at least not before me. I want to be good. I can’t bear the idea of my soul being hideous.’
“我已经经历了这一切，”多里安微笑着摇摇头说道。 “我现在非常高兴。首先，我知道良心是什么。这不是你告诉我的那样。这是我们身上最神圣的东西。别再嘲笑它了，哈利，——至少不要在我面前。我想做个好人。我无法忍受我的灵魂是丑陋的。

‘A very charming artistic basis for ethics, Dorian! I congratulate you on it. But how are you going to begin?’
“这是一个非常迷人的道德艺术基础，多里安！我对此表示祝贺。但你要怎么开始呢？

‘By marrying Sibyl Vane.’
“与西比尔·文结婚。”

‘Marrying Sibyl Vane!’ cried Lord Henry, standing up, and looking at him in perplexed amazement. ‘But, my dear Dorian—’
“嫁给西比尔·文！”亨利勋爵站起来喊道，困惑而惊讶地看着他。 “但是，我亲爱的多里安——”

‘Yes, Harry, I know what you are going to say. Something dreadful about marriage. Don’t say it. Don’t ever say things of that kind to me again. Two days ago I asked Sibyl to marry me. I am not going to break my word to her. She is to be my wife.’
“是的，哈利，我知道你要说什么。婚姻中有些可怕的事情。别说出来。以后不要再对我说那样的话了。两天前，我向西比尔求婚。我不会违背对她的诺言。她将成为我的妻子。

‘Your wife! Dorian! … Didn’t you get my letter? I wrote to you this morning, and sent the note down, by my own man.’
'你妻子！多里安！ ……你没有收到我的信吗？我今天早上写信给你，并由我自己的人寄了字条。

‘Your letter? Oh, yes, I remember. I have not read it yet, Harry. I was afraid there might be something in it that I wouldn’t like.’
'你的信？哦，是的，我记得。我还没读过，哈利。我担心里面可能有我不喜欢的东西。

Lord Henry walked across the room, and, sitting down by Dorian Gray, took both his hands in his, and held them tightly. ‘Dorian,’ he said, ‘my letter—don’t be frightened—was to tell you that Sibyl Vane is dead.’
亨利勋爵走过房间，在道林·格雷身边坐下，握住他的双手，紧紧握住。 “多里安，”他说，“我的信——别害怕——是要告诉你西比尔·文已经死了。”

A cry of pain rose from the lad’s lips, and he leaped to his feet, tearing his hands away from Lord Henry’s grasp. ‘Dead! Sibyl dead! It is not true! It is a horrible lie!’
小伙子嘴里发出一声痛苦的叫喊，他跳了起来，把双手从亨利勋爵的手里挣脱开。 '死的！西比尔死了！这不是真的！这是一个可怕的谎言！

‘It is quite true, Dorian,’ said Lord Henry, gravely. ‘It is in all the morning papers. I wrote down to you to ask you not to see any one till I came. There will have to be an inquest, of course, and you must not be mixed up in it. Things like that make a man fashionable in Paris. But in London people are so prejudiced. Here, one should never make one’s début with a scandal. One should reserve that to give an interest to one’s old age. I don’t suppose they know your name at the theatre. If they don’t, it is all right. Did any one see you going round to her room? That is an important point.’
“确实如此，多里安，”亨利勋爵严肃地说。 ‘所有早报上都有这事。我写信给你，请你在我来之前不要见任何人。当然，必须要进行一次调查，而你绝对不能参与其中。诸如此类的事情让男人在巴黎变得时尚。但在伦敦，人们的偏见如此之大。在这里，一个人永远不应该带着丑闻首次亮相。一个人应该保留这一点，以便对自己的晚年产生兴趣。我想剧院里的人都不知道你的名字。如果他们不这样做，也没关系。有人看到你去她的房间吗？这是很重要的一点。

Dorian did not answer for a few moments. He was dazed with horror. Finally he murmured, in a stifled voice, ‘Harry, did you say an inquest? What did you mean by that? Did Sibyl—? Oh, Harry, I can’t bear it! But be quick. Tell me everything at once.’
多里安好一会儿没有回答。他惊恐万状。最后他用压抑的声音低声说道：“哈利，你是说要进行调查吗？”你这是什么意思？西比尔——？哦，哈利，我受不了了！但要快点。立即告诉我一切。

‘I have no doubt it was not an accident, Dorian, though it must be put in that way to the public. As she was leaving the theatre with her mother, about half-past twelve or so, she said she had forgotten something up-stairs. They waited some time for her, but she did not come down again. They ultimately found her lying dead on the floor of her dressing-room. She had swallowed something by mistake, some dreadful thing they use at theatres. I don’t know what it was, but it had either prussic acid or white lead in it. I should fancy it was prussic acid, as she seems to have died instantaneously. It is very tragic, of course, but you must not get yourself mixed up in it. I see by the Standard that she was seventeen. I should have thought she was almost younger than that. She looked such a child, and seemed to know so little about acting. Dorian, you mustn’t let this thing get on your nerves. You must come and dine with me, and afterwards we will look in at the Opera. It is a Patti night, and everybody will be there. You can come to my sister’s box. She has got some smart women with her.’
“我毫不怀疑这不是一次意外，多里安，尽管必须以这种方式向公众展示。大约十二点半左右，当她和母亲离开剧院时，她说她把东西忘在楼上了。他们等了她一会儿，但她没有再下来。他们最终发现她死在更衣室的地板上。她不小心吞下了一些东西，一些剧院里使用的可怕的东西。我不知道那是什么，但里面要么是氢氰酸，要么是白铅。我猜想那是氢氰酸，因为她似乎立刻就死了。当然，这是非常悲惨的，但你绝对不能把自己卷入其中。我按照标准看她十七岁。我应该以为她比那年轻。她看起来就像个孩子，似乎对表演一窍不通。多里安，你不能让这件事让你心烦意乱。你一定要来和我一起吃饭，然后我们去看看歌剧院。这是帕蒂之夜，每个人都会在那里。你可以到我姐姐的包厢来。她身边有一些聪明的女人。

‘So I have murdered Sibyl Vane,’ said Dorian Gray, half to himself,— ‘murdered her as certainly as if I had cut her little throat with a knife. And the roses are not less lovely for all that. The birds sing just as happily in my garden. And to-night I am to dine with you, and then go on to the Opera, and sup somewhere, I suppose, afterwards. How extraordinarily dramatic life is! If I had read all this in a book, Harry, I think I would have wept over it. Somehow, now that it has happened actually, and to me, it seems far too wonderful for tears. Here is the first passionate love-letter I have ever written in my life. Strange, that my first passionate loveletter should have been addressed to a dead girl. Can they feel, I wonder, those white silent people we call the dead? Sibyl! Can she feel, or know, or listen? Oh, Harry, how I loved her once! It seems years ago to me now. She was everything to me. Then came that dreadful night—was it really only last night?—when she played so badly, and my heart almost broke. She explained it all to me. It was terribly pathetic. But I was not moved a bit. I thought her shallow. Then something happened that made me afraid. I can’t tell you what it was, but it was awful. I said I would go back to her. I felt I had done wrong. And now she is dead. My God! my God! Harry, what shall I do? You don’t know the danger I am in, and there is nothing to keep me straight. She would have done that for me. She had no right to kill herself. It was selfish of her.’
“所以我谋杀了西比尔·文，”道林·格雷半自言自语地说，“谋杀了她，就好像我用刀割断了她的小喉咙一样。”尽管如此，玫瑰也同样可爱。鸟儿在我的花园里同样快乐地歌唱。今晚我要和你一起吃饭，然后去歌剧院，然后我想，在某个地方吃晚饭。人生是多么的戏剧化啊！哈利，如果我在一本书中读到这一切，我想我会为此哭泣。不知何故，现在它已经实际发生了，对我来说，这似乎太美妙了，让人流泪。这是我一生中写的第一封充满激情的情书。奇怪的是，我的第一封充满激情的情书竟然是写给一个死去的女孩的。我想知道，他们能感觉到那些我们称之为死者的沉默的白人吗？西比尔！她能感觉到、知道或倾听吗？哦，哈利，我曾经多么爱她！现在对我来说似乎是几年前的事了。她是我的一切。然后那个可怕的夜晚到来了——真的只是昨晚吗？——她打得那么糟糕，我的心几乎碎了。她向我解释了这一切。这真是太可悲了。但我却没有丝毫的感动。我以为她很肤浅。然后发生了一件让我害怕的事情。我不能告诉你那是什么，但它太可怕了。我说我会回到她身边。我觉得我做错了。现在她死了。我的上帝！我的上帝！哈利，我该怎么办？你不知道我正处于危险之中，也没有什么可以让我保持正直。她会为我这么做的。她没有权利自杀。她太自私了。

‘My dear Dorian, the only way a woman can ever reform a man is by boring him so completely that he loses all possible interest in life. If you had married this girl you would have been wretched. Of course you would have treated her kindly. One can always be kind to people about whom one cares nothing. But she would have soon found out that you were absolutely indifferent to her. And when a woman finds that out about her husband, she either becomes dreadfully dowdy, or wears very smart bonnets that some other woman’s husband has to pay for. I say nothing about the social mistake, but I assure you that in any case the whole thing would have been an absolute failure.’
“我亲爱的多里安，女人改造男人的唯一方法就是让他彻底厌烦，让他对生活失去所有可能的兴趣。如果你娶了这个女孩，你就很不幸了。当然，你会善待她。一个人总是可以善待那些自己不关心的人。但她很快就会发现你对她完全漠不关心。当一个女人发现她丈夫的这一点时，她要么变得非常邋遢，要么戴上其他女人的丈夫必须花钱买的非常漂亮的帽子。我对社会错误只字不提，但我向你保证，无论如何，整个事情绝对是失败的。

‘I suppose it would,’ muttered the lad, walking up and down the room, and looking horribly pale. ‘But I thought it was my duty. It is not my fault that this terrible tragedy has prevented my doing what was right. I remember your saying once that there is a fatality about good resolutions,—that they are always made too late. Mine certainly were.’
“我想会的，”小伙子嘀咕道，在房间里走来走去，脸色苍白得可怕。 “但我认为这是我的职责。这场可怕的悲剧阻止了我做正确的事，这不是我的错。我记得你曾经说过，好的决心往往会带来致命的后果——它们总是制定得太迟。我的当然是。

‘Good resolutions are simply a useless attempt to interfere with scientific laws. Their origin is pure vanity. Their result is absolutely nil. They give us, now and then, some of those luxurious sterile emotions that have a certain charm for us. That is all that can be said for them.’
“好的决议只不过是干扰科学定律的无用尝试。他们的根源纯粹是虚荣。他们的结果绝对是零。它们时不时地给我们带来一些奢华而乏味的情感，对我们来说具有一定的魅力。这就是他们所能说的一切。

‘Harry,’ cried Dorian Gray, coming over and sitting down beside him, ‘why is it that I cannot feel this tragedy as much as I want to? I don’t think I am heartless. Do you?’
“哈利，”多里安·格雷喊道，走过来坐在他身边，“为什么我不能像我想要的那样感受到这场悲剧？我不认为我是无情的。你？'

‘You have done too many foolish things in your life to be entitled to give yourself that name, Dorian,’ answered Lord Henry, with his sweet, melancholy smile.
“你一生中做了太多愚蠢的事情，没有资格给自己取这个名字，多里安，”亨利勋爵带着甜蜜而忧郁的微笑回答道。

The lad frowned. ‘I don’t like that explanation, Harry,’ he rejoined, ‘but I am glad you don’t think I am heartless. I am nothing of the kind. I know I am not. And yet I must admit that this thing that has happened does not affect me as it should. It seems to me to be simply like a wonderful ending to a wonderful play. It has all the terrible beauty of a great tragedy, a tragedy in which I took part, but by which I have not been wounded.’
小伙子皱起了眉头。 “我不喜欢这个解释，哈利，”他回答道，“但我很高兴你不认为我无情。我不是那种人。我知道我不是。但我必须承认，发生的这件事并没有对我产生应有的影响。在我看来，这简直就像一场精彩戏剧的精彩结局。它具有一场伟大悲剧的所有可怕之美，我参与了这场悲剧，但我没有受伤。”

‘It is an interesting question,’ said Lord Henry, who found an exquisite pleasure in playing on the lad’s unconscious egotism,—‘an extremely interesting question. I fancy that the explanation is this. It often happens that the real tragedies of life occur in such an inartistic manner that they hurt us by their crude violence, their absolute incoherence, their absurd want of meaning, their entire lack of style. They affect us just as vulgarity affects us. They give us an impression of sheer brute force, and we revolt against that. Sometimes, however, a tragedy that has artistic elements of beauty crosses our lives. If these elements of beauty are real, the whole thing simply appeals to our sense of dramatic effect. Suddenly we find that we are no longer the actors, but the spectators of the play. Or rather we are both. We watch ourselves, and the mere wonder of the spectacle enthralls us. In the present case, what is it that has really happened? Some one has killed herself for love of you. I wish I had ever had such an experience. It would have made me in love with love for the rest of my life. The people who have adored me—there have not been very many, but there have been some— have always insisted on living on, long after I had ceased to care for them, or they to care for me. They have become stout and tedious, and when I meet them they go in at once for reminiscences. That awful memory of woman! What a fearful thing it is! And what an utter intellectual stagnation it reveals! One should absorb the color of life, but one should never remember its details. Details are always vulgar.
“这是一个有趣的问题，”亨利勋爵说，他在利用这个小伙子无意识的自我中心主义中找到了一种极大的乐趣，“一个非常有趣的问题。我想解释是这样的。生活中真正的悲剧常常以如此不艺术的方式发生，以至于它们以其粗暴的暴力、绝对的语无伦次、荒谬的缺乏意义、完全缺乏风格而伤害了我们。它们影响我们，就像粗俗影响我们一样。它们给我们一种纯粹的暴力的印象，而我们对此表示反抗。然而，有时候，一场具有艺术美感的悲剧会横亘在我们的生活中。如果这些美丽的元素是真实的，那么整个事情就会吸引我们的戏剧效果感。突然我们发现自己不再是戏中的演员，而是戏的观众。或者更确切地说，我们都是。我们观察自己，仅仅是奇观的奇迹就让我们着迷。在目前的情况下，到底发生了什么？有人因为爱你而自杀。我希望我曾经有过这样的经历。它会让我一生都热爱爱情。那些崇拜我的人——虽然不多，但也有一些——在我不再关心他们，或者他们不再关心我之后很久，仍然坚持活下去。他们变得粗壮而乏味，当我见到他们时，他们立刻就开始回忆往事。女人的记性太糟糕了！这是多么可怕的事情啊！它揭示了一种多么彻底的智力停滞！人应该吸收生活的色彩，但不应该记住它的细节。细节总是粗俗的。

‘Of course, now and then things linger. I once wore nothing but violets all through one season, as mourning for a romance that would not die. Ultimately, however, it did die. I forget what killed it. I think it was her proposing to sacrifice the whole world for me. That is always a dreadful moment. It fills one with the terror of eternity. Well,—would you believe it?—a week ago, at Lady Hampshire’s, I found myself seated at dinner next the lady in question, and she insisted on going over the whole thing again, and digging up the past, and raking up the future. I had buried my romance in a bed of poppies. She dragged it out again, and assured me that I had spoiled her life. I am bound to state that she ate an enormous dinner, so I did not feel any anxiety. But what a lack of taste she showed! The one charm of the past is that it is the past. But women never know when the curtain has fallen. They always want a sixth act, and as soon as the interest of the play is entirely over they propose to continue it. If they were allowed to have their way, every comedy would have a tragic ending, and every tragedy would culminate in a farce. They are charmingly artificial, but they have no sense of art. You are more fortunate than I am. I assure you, Dorian, that not one of the women I have known would have done for me what Sibyl Vane did for you. Ordinary women always console themselves. Some of them do it by going in for sentimental colors. Never trust a woman who wears mauve, whatever her age may be, or a woman over thirty-five who is fond of pink ribbons. It always means that they have a history. Others find a great consolation in suddenly discovering the good qualities of their husbands. They flaunt their conjugal felicity in one’s face, as if it was the most fascinating of sins. Religion consoles some. Its mysteries have all the charm of a flirtation, a woman once told me; and I can quite understand it. Besides, nothing makes one so vain as being told that one is a sinner. There is really no end to the consolations that women find in modern life. Indeed, I have not mentioned the most important one of all.’
“当然，有时事情会持续下去。曾经有一整个季节，我只穿紫罗兰，哀悼一段不灭的浪漫。然而，最终它还是死了。我忘了是什么杀死了它。我认为是她提议为我牺牲整个世界。那总是一个可怕的时刻。它使人充满永恒的恐惧。好吧，你相信吗？一周前，在汉普郡夫人家，我发现自己在晚餐时坐在那位有问题的女士旁边，她坚持要再回顾一遍整个事情，挖掘过去，收集过去的事情。未来。我把我的浪漫埋藏在罂粟花坛里。她又把它拖了出来，并向我保证我毁了她的生活。我必须说，她吃了一顿丰盛的晚餐，所以我没有感到任何焦虑。但她表现得多么缺乏品味啊！过去的魅力之一就在于它就是过去。但女人永远不知道帷幕何时落下。他们总是想要第六幕，一旦戏剧的兴趣完全结束，他们就建议继续演出。如果任由他们为所欲为，每一部喜剧都会以悲剧收场，每一部悲剧都会以闹剧告终。它们人造得迷人，但毫无艺术感。你比我幸运。我向你保证，多里安，我认识的所有女人中没有一个会为我做西比尔·文为你做的事情。普通女人总是这样安慰自己。他们中的一些人通过追求感伤的色彩来做到这一点。永远不要相信穿紫红色衣服的女人，无论她的年龄多大，也不要相信三十五岁以上喜欢粉红丝带的女人。这总是意味着他们有历史。另一些人则因突然发现自己丈夫的优点而感到极大的安慰。他们当着别人的面炫耀自己的婚姻幸福，仿佛这是最令人着迷的罪恶。 宗教可以安慰一些人。一位女士曾经告诉我，它的奥秘充满了调情的魅力；我很能理解。此外，没有什么比被告知自己是罪人更让人自负的了。女性在现代生活中找到的安慰确实是无穷无尽的。事实上，我还没有提到最重要的一项。’

‘What is that, Harry?’ said Dorian Gray, listlessly.
“那是什么，哈利？”道林·格雷无精打采地说。

‘Oh, the obvious one. Taking some one else’s admirer when one loses one’s own. In good society that always whitewashes a woman. But really, Dorian, how different Sibyl Vane must have been from all the women one meets! There is something to me quite beautiful about her death. I am glad I am living in a century when such wonders happen. They make one believe in the reality of the things that shallow, fashionable people play with, such as romance, passion, and love.’
‘哦，这是显而易见的。当一个人失去自己的仰慕者时，却又得到了别人的仰慕者。在美好的社会里，女人总是被粉饰的。但说实话，多里安，西比尔·文恩与我们遇到的所有女人一定有多么不同！对我来说，她的死有一种非常美丽的感觉。我很高兴我生活在这样的奇迹发生的世纪。它们让人们相信肤浅、时尚的人所玩弄的事物的真实性，比如浪漫、激情和爱情。

‘I was terribly cruel to her. You forget that.’
“我对她太残忍了。你忘了这一点。

‘I believe that women appreciate cruelty more than anything else. They have wonderfully primitive instincts. We have emancipated them, but they remain slaves looking for their masters, all the same. They love being dominated. I am sure you were splendid. I have never seen you angry, but I can fancy how delightful you looked. And, after all, you said something to me the day before yesterday that seemed to me at the time to be merely fanciful, but that I see now was absolutely true, and it explains everything.’
“我相信女性比其他任何事情都更欣赏残忍。他们有奇妙的原始本能。我们解放了他们，但他们仍然是寻找主人的奴隶。他们喜欢被支配。我相信你一定很出色。我从未见过你生气，但我能想象你看起来多么令人愉快。毕竟，你前天对我说了一些当时在我看来只是幻想的事情，但我现在看来是千真万确的，它解释了一切。

‘What was that, Harry?’
“那是什么，哈利？”

‘You said to me that Sibyl Vane represented to you all the heroines of romance—that she was Desdemona one night, and Ophelia the other; that if she died as Juliet, she came to life as Imogen.’
“你对我说，西比尔·维恩在你看来代表了所有浪漫的女主角——一晚她是苔丝狄蒙娜，另一晚是奥菲莉亚；如果她以朱丽叶的身份死去，她就会以伊莫金的身份复活。

‘She will never come to life again now,’ murmured the lad, burying his face in his hands.
“她现在再也不会复活了，”小伙子低声说道，把脸埋在双手里。

‘No, she will never come to life. She has played her last part. But you must think of that lonely death in the tawdry dressing-room simply as a strange lurid fragment from some Jacobean tragedy, as a wonderful scene from Webster, or Ford, or Cyril Tourneur. The girl never really lived, and so she has never really died. To you at least she was always a dream, a phantom that flitted through Shakespeare’s plays and left them lovelier for its presence, a reed through which Shakespeare’s music sounded richer and more full of joy. The moment she touched actual life, she marred it, and it marred her, and so she passed away. Mourn for Ophelia, if you like. Put ashes on your head because Cordelia was strangled. Cry out against Heaven because the daughter of Brabantio died. But don’t waste your tears over Sibyl Vane. She was less real than they are.’
‘不，她永远不会复活。她已经扮演了最后一个角色。但你必须把在俗气的更衣室里孤独的死亡简单地视为詹姆士一世时期悲剧中奇怪而耸人听闻的片段，就像韦伯斯特、福特或西里尔·图尔纳的精彩场景。这个女孩从未真正活过，所以她也从未真正死过。至少对你来说，她永远是一个梦，一个在莎士比亚的戏剧中掠过的幽灵，让它们因它的存在而变得更加可爱，一个芦苇，通过它，莎士比亚的音乐听起来更丰富、更充满欢乐。当她触及现实生活的那一刻，她就破坏了它，现实生活也破坏了她，所以她就去世了。如果你愿意的话，为奥菲莉亚哀悼吧。把骨灰撒在你的头上，因为科迪莉亚是被勒死的。因为布拉班蒂奥的女儿死了而向天堂呼喊。但不要把眼泪浪费在西比尔·文身上。她不像他们那么真实。

There was a silence. The evening darkened in the room. Noiselessly, and with silver feet, the shadows crept in from the garden. The colors faded wearily out of things.
一阵沉默。房间里的夜色暗下来了。影子无声无息地迈着银色的脚步，从花园里悄悄潜入。事物的颜色疲倦地褪去。

After some time Dorian Gray looked up. ‘You have explained me to myself, Harry,’ he murmured, with something of a sigh of relief. ‘I felt all that you have said, but somehow I was afraid of it, and I could not express it to myself. How well you know me! But we will not talk again of what has happened. It has been a marvellous experience. That is all. I wonder if life has still in store for me anything as marvellous.’
过了一会儿，道连·格雷抬起头来。 “你已经向我自己解释了，哈利，”他低声说道，松了口气。 ‘我感受到了你所说的一切，但不知何故我很害怕，而且我无法向自己表达出来。你多么了解我啊！但我们不会再谈论已经发生的事情。这是一次奇妙的经历。就这些。我想知道生活是否还为我准备着如此美妙的东西。

‘Life has everything in store for you, Dorian. There is nothing that you, with your extraordinary good looks, will not be able to do.’
“生活为你准备好了一切，多里安。凭借你非凡的美貌，没有什么是你做不到的。”

‘But suppose, Harry, I became haggard, and gray, and wrinkled? What then?’
“但是，哈利，假设我变得憔悴、灰白、满脸皱纹呢？然后怎样呢？'

‘Ah, then,’ said Lord Henry, rising to go,—‘then, my dear Dorian, you would have to fight for your victories. As it is, they are brought to you. No, you must keep your good looks. We live in an age that reads too much to be wise, and that thinks too much to be beautiful. We cannot spare you. And now you had better dress, and drive down to the club. We are rather late, as it is.’
“啊，那么，”亨利勋爵站起来要走，说道，“那么，我亲爱的多里安，你就必须为你的胜利而战了。事实上，它们是带给你的。不行，你必须保持你的美貌。我们生活在一个读书太多而变得智慧、思考太多而变得美丽的时代。我们不能放过你。现在你穿得更好，然后开车去俱乐部。事实上，我们已经晚了。”

‘I think I shall join you at the Opera, Harry. I feel too tired to eat anything. What is the number of your sister’s box?’
“我想我应该去歌剧院和你一起，哈利。我感觉太累了，吃不了任何东西。你姐姐的信箱号是多少？

‘Twenty-seven, I believe. It is on the grand tier. You will see her name on the door. But I am sorry you won’t come and dine.’
“我相信，二十七岁。”它位于盛大的一层。你会在门上看到她的名字。但我很抱歉你不来吃饭。”

‘I don’t feel up to it,’ said Dorian, wearily. ‘But I am awfully obliged to you for all that you have said to me. You are certainly my best friend. No one has ever understood me as you have.’
“我不想这么做，”多里安疲倦地说。 “但是我非常感谢你对我所说的一切。你当然是我最好的朋友。没有人像你一样理解我。

‘We are only at the beginning of our friendship, Dorian,’ answered Lord Henry, shaking him by the hand. ‘Good-by. I shall see you before nine-thirty, I hope. Remember, Patti is singing.’
“我们的友谊才刚刚开始，道连。”亨利勋爵握着他的手回答道。 '有效期。我希望能在九点三十分之前见到你。记住，帕蒂在唱歌。”

As he closed the door behind him, Dorian Gray touched the bell, and in a few minutes Victor appeared with the lamps and drew the blinds down. He waited impatiently for him to go. The man seemed to take an interminable time about everything.
当他关上身后的门时，道林·格雷按响了门铃，几分钟后，维克多带着灯出现，拉下了百叶窗。他不耐烦地等着他走。这个男人似乎对每件事情都花了没完没了的时间。

As soon as he had left, he rushed to the screen, and drew it back. No; there was no further change in the picture. It had received the news of Sibyl Vane’s death before he had known of it himself. It was conscious of the events of life as they occurred. The vicious cruelty that marred the fine lines of the mouth had, no doubt, appeared at the very moment that the girl had drunk the poison, whatever it was. Or was it indifferent to results? Did it merely take cognizance of what passed within the soul? he wondered, and hoped that some day he would see the change taking place before his very eyes, shuddering as he hoped it.
他一离开，就冲到屏风前，将屏风拉了回来。不;图片没有进一步的变化。在西比尔·韦恩本人得知之前，它就收到了他的死讯。它能够意识到生活中发生的事件。毫无疑问，在女孩喝下毒药的那一刻，无论是什么毒药，破坏了嘴角细纹的恶毒残忍就已经显现出来了。还是对结果漠不关心？它只是认识到灵魂内部发生的事情吗？他想知道，并希望有一天他能亲眼目睹这种变化，如他所希望的那样颤抖。

Poor Sibyl! what a romance it had all been! She had often mimicked death on the stage, and at last Death himself had touched her, and brought her with him. How had she played that dreadful scene? Had she cursed him, as she died? No; she had died for love of him, and love would always be a sacrament to him now. She had atoned for everything, by the sacrifice she had made of her life. He would not think any more of what she had made him go through, that horrible night at the theatre. When he thought of her, it would be as a wonderful tragic figure to show Love had been a great reality. A wonderful tragic figure? Tears came to his eyes as he remembered her child-like look and winsome fanciful ways and shy tremulous grace. He wiped them away hastily, and looked again at the picture.
可怜的西比尔！这一切是多么浪漫啊！她经常在舞台上模仿死亡，最后死亡亲自触碰了她，并把她带走了。她是怎么演那场可怕的戏的？她临死时咒骂过他吗？不;她为爱他而死，现在爱对他来说永远是一种圣礼。她用自己的生命做出了牺牲，弥补了一切。他不会再去想她让他经历了什么，在剧院那个可怕的夜晚。当他想到她时，她就像一个美妙的悲剧人物，表明爱情曾经是一个伟大的现实。一个美妙的悲剧人物？当他想起她孩子般的表情、迷人的幻想方式和害羞而颤抖的优雅时，他的眼泪夺眶而出。他连忙把它们擦掉，再次看向照片。

He felt that the time had really come for making his choice. Or had his choice already been made? Yes, life had decided that for him,— life, and his own infinite curiosity about life. Eternal youth, infinite passion, pleasures subtle and secret, wild joys and wilder sins,—he was to have all these things. The portrait was to bear the burden of his shame: that was all.
他觉得，是时候真正做出选择了。还是他已经做出了选择？是的，生活对他来说——生活，以及他自己对生活的无限好奇。永恒的青春，无限的激情，微妙而秘密的快乐，狂野的快乐和狂野的罪恶——他将拥有这一切。这幅画像要承受他的耻辱：仅此而已。

A feeling of pain came over him as he thought of the desecration that was in store for the fair face on the canvas. Once, in boyish mockery of Narcissus, he had kissed, or feigned to kiss, those painted lips that now smiled so cruelly at him. Morning after morning he had sat before the portrait wondering at its beauty, almost enamoured of it, as it seemed to him at times. Was it to alter now with every mood to which he yielded? Was it to become a hideous and loathsome thing, to be hidden away in a locked room, to be shut out from the sunlight that had so often touched to brighter gold the waving wonder of the hair? The pity of it! the pity of it!
当他想到画布上那张美丽的脸即将遭受的亵渎时，他感到一阵痛苦。有一次，他在孩子气地嘲笑纳西瑟斯时，亲吻过，或者假装亲吻过那双涂过颜色的嘴唇，而现在它们却对他残忍地微笑着。一个又一个早晨，他坐在这幅肖像前，惊叹于它的美丽，几乎被它迷住了，有时在他看来是如此。现在是否会随着他所屈服的每一种情绪而改变？难道它会变成一个丑陋而令人厌恶的东西，被藏在一个上锁的房间里，被隔绝在阳光下，而阳光经常让那飘逸的头发呈现出更明亮的金色吗？可惜了！可惜了！

For a moment he thought of praying that the horrible sympathy that existed between him and the picture might cease. It had changed in answer to a prayer; perhaps in answer to a prayer it might remain unchanged. And, yet, who, that knew anything about Life, would surrender the chance of remaining always young, however fantastic that chance might be, or with what fateful consequences it might be fraught? Besides, was it really under his control? Had it indeed been prayer that had produced the substitution? Might there not be some curious scientific reason for it all? If thought could exercise its influence upon a living organism, might not thought exercise an influence upon dead and inorganic things? Nay, without thought or conscious desire, might not things external to ourselves vibrate in unison with our moods and passions, atom calling to atom, in secret love or strange affinity? But the reason was of no importance. He would never again tempt by a prayer any terrible power. If the picture was to alter, it was to alter. That was all. Why inquire too closely into it?
有那么一会儿，他想到祈祷，希望他和这幅画之间存在的可怕的同情能够停止。它因应祈祷而改变了。也许为了回应祈祷，它可能会保持不变。然而，谁对生命一无所知，会放弃永葆青春的机会，不管这个机会有多么美妙，或者可能会带来什么致命的后果？再说了，这一切真的都在他的掌控之中吗？难道真的是祈祷带来了替代吗？这一切难道没有一些奇怪的科学原因吗？如果思想能够对活的有机体产生影响，那么思想难道不会对死的和无机的事物产生影响吗？不仅如此，如果没有思想或有意识的欲望，我们外在的事物难道不会与我们的情绪和激情一致振动，原子之间相互呼唤，在秘密的爱或奇怪的亲和力中吗？但原因并不重要。他再也不会用祈祷来诱惑任何可怕的力量了。如果图片要改变，它就会改变。就这些。为什么要追究得太仔细呢？

For there would be a real pleasure in watching it. He would be able to follow his mind into its secret places. This portrait would be to him the most magical of mirrors. As it had revealed to him his own body, so it would reveal to him his own soul. And when winter came upon it, he would still be standing where spring trembles on the verge of summer. When the blood crept from its face, and left behind a pallid mask of chalk with leaden eyes, he would keep the glamour of boyhood. Not one blossom of his loveliness would ever fade. Not one pulse of his life would ever weaken. Like the gods of the Greeks, he would be strong, and fleet, and joyous. What did it matter what happened to the colored image on the canvas? He would be safe. That was everything.
因为观看它会带来真正的乐趣。他将能够跟随他的思想进入其秘密的地方。这幅肖像对他来说是最神奇的镜子。正如它向他揭示了他自己的身体一样，它也会向他揭示他自己的灵魂。当冬天来临的时候，他仍然站在春天在夏天的边缘颤抖的地方。当血从它的脸上流下来，留下一张苍白的粉笔面具和铅灰色的眼睛时，他将保持童年的魅力。他的可爱之花没有一朵会凋谢。他的生命脉搏从未减弱过。就像希腊诸神一样，他坚强、敏捷、快乐。画布上的彩色图像发生了什么有什么关系呢？他会安全的。这就是一切。

He drew the screen back into its former place in front of the picture, smiling as he did so, and passed into his bedroom, where his valet was already waiting for him. An hour later he was at the Opera, and Lord Henry was leaning over his chair.
他把屏风拉回到照片前面原来的位置，一边微笑，一边走进自己的卧室，他的贴身男仆已经在那里等他了。一小时后，他来到了歌剧院，亨利勋爵靠在椅子上。

Chapter VII
第七章

As he was sitting at breakfast next morning, Basil Hallward was shown into the room.
第二天早上，当他坐在早餐室时，巴兹尔·霍尔沃德被带进了房间。

‘I am so glad I have found you, Dorian,’ he said, gravely. ‘I called last night, and they told me you were at the Opera. Of course I knew that was impossible. But I wish you had left word where you had really gone to. I passed a dreadful evening, half afraid that one tragedy might be followed by another. I think you might have telegraphed for me when you heard of it first. I read of it quite by chance in a late edition of the Globe, that I picked up at the club. I came here at once, and was miserable at not finding you. I can’t tell you how heart-broken I am about the whole thing. I know what you must suffer. But where were you? Did you go down and see the girl’s mother? For a moment I thought of following you there. They gave the address in the paper. Somewhere in the Euston Road, isn’t it? But I was afraid of intruding upon a sorrow that I could not lighten. Poor woman! What a state she must be in! And her only child, too! What did she say about it all?’
“我很高兴找到你，多里安，”他严肃地说。 “我昨晚打电话，他们告诉我你在歌剧院。我当然知道那是不可能的。但我希望你能在你真正去过的地方留下话。我度过了一个可怕的夜晚，生怕一场悲剧之后又会发生另一场悲剧。我想你第一次听说这件事时可能已经给我发电报了。我很偶然地在俱乐部读到的最新一期《环球报》上读到了这则消息。我立刻就来到了这里，很遗憾没有找到你。我无法告诉你我对整件事有多伤心。我知道你必须承受什么。但你在哪里？你下去见女孩的母亲了吗？有那么一刻我想跟着你去那里。他们在报纸上给出了地址。在尤斯顿路的某个地方，不是吗？但我害怕闯入一种我无法减轻的悲伤。可怜的女人！她现在的处境该是怎样的啊！还有她唯一的孩子！她对这一切说了些什么？

‘My dear Basil, how do I know?’ murmured Dorian, sipping some paleyellow wine from a delicate gold-beaded bubble of Venetian glass, and looking dreadfully bored. ‘I was at the Opera. You should have come on there. I met Lady Gwendolen, Harry’s sister, for the first time. We were in her box. She is perfectly charming; and Patti sang divinely. Don’t talk about horrid subjects. If one doesn’t talk about a thing, it has never happened. It is simply expression, as Harry says, that gives reality to things. Tell me about yourself and what you are painting.’
“我亲爱的巴兹尔，我怎么知道？”多里安低声说道，他从精致的金珠威尼斯玻璃杯中啜饮着淡黄色的葡萄酒，看上去非常无聊。 “我当时在歌剧院。你应该到那里去。我第一次见到格温多琳夫人，哈利的妹妹。我们在她的盒子里。她非常迷人；帕蒂唱得非常美妙。不要谈论可怕的话题。如果一个人不谈论一件事，那么它就从未发生过。正如哈利所说，表达使事物变得真实。告诉我你自己以及你在画什么。

‘You went to the Opera?’ said Hallward, speaking very slowly, and with a strained touch of pain in his voice. ‘You went to the Opera while Sibyl Vane was lying dead in some sordid lodging? You can talk to me of other women being charming, and of Patti singing divinely, before the girl you loved has even the quiet of a grave to sleep in? Why, man, there are horrors in store for that little white body of hers!’
“你去了歌剧院？”霍尔华德说，语气很慢，声音里带着一丝痛苦。 “当西比尔·文死在某个肮脏的住处时，你去了歌剧院？在你所爱的女孩还没有安静的坟墓可以睡觉之前，你可以跟我谈论其他女人的迷人，帕蒂的歌声神圣吗？哎呀，伙计，她那小小的白色身体正面临着恐怖！

‘Stop, Basil! I won’t hear it!’ cried Dorian, leaping to his feet. ‘You must not tell me about things. What is done is done. What is past is past.’
“停下来，巴兹尔！我不会听的！”多里安跳起来喊道。 ‘你不可以告诉我一些事情。该做的就做了。过去的就过去了。”

‘You call yesterday the past?’
“你把昨天当作过去了吗？”

‘What has the actual lapse of time got to do with it? It is only shallow people who require years to get rid of an emotion. A man who is master of himself can end a sorrow as easily as he can invent a pleasure. I don’t want to be at the mercy of my emotions. I want to use them, to enjoy them, and to dominate them.’
‘实际的时间流逝与它有什么关系？只有肤浅的人才需要数年时间才能摆脱情绪。一个能够掌控自己的人可以轻松地结束悲伤，就像他可以轻松地创造快乐一样。我不想受自己情绪的支配。我想使用它们，享受它们，并主宰它们。

‘Dorian, this is horrible! Something has changed you completely. You look exactly the same wonderful boy who used to come down to my studio, day after day, to sit for his picture. But you were simple, natural, and affectionate then. You were the most unspoiled creature in the whole world. Now, I don’t know what has come over you. You talk as if you had no heart, no pity in you. It is all Harry’s influence. I see that.’
“多里安，这太可怕了！有些事情彻底改变了你。你看起来和过去日复一日来到我的工作室坐下来拍照的那个很棒的男孩一模一样。但那时的你单纯、自然、深情。你是全世界最未受污染的生物。现在，我不知道你发生了什么。你说话就好像你没有心，没有怜悯。这都是哈利的影响。我看到。'

The lad flushed up, and, going to the window, looked out on the green, flickering garden for a few moments. ‘I owe a great deal to Harry, Basil,’ he said, at last,—‘more than I owe to you. You only taught me to be vain.’
小伙子涨红了脸，走到窗前，看了一会儿窗外翠绿、闪烁的花园。 “我欠哈利很多，巴兹尔，”他最后说道，“比我欠你的还多。”你只是教会了我虚荣。

‘Well, I am punished for that, Dorian,—or shall be some day.’
“好吧，我为此受到了惩罚，多里安——或者说有一天会受到惩罚。”

‘I don’t know what you mean, Basil,’ he exclaimed, turning round. ‘I don’t know what you want. What do you want?’
“我不明白你的意思，巴兹尔，”他转过身喊道。 ‘我不知道你想要什么。你想要什么？'

‘I want the Dorian Gray I used to know.’
“我想要我以前认识的道林·格雷。”

‘Basil,’ said the lad, going over to him, and putting his hand on his shoulder, ‘you have come too late. Yesterday when I heard that Sibyl Vane had killed herself—’
“巴兹尔，”小伙子走到他身边，把手放在他的肩膀上，“你来得太晚了。”昨天，当我听说西比尔·文自杀了时——”

‘Killed herself! Good heavens! is there no doubt about that?’ cried Hallward, looking up at him with an expression of horror.
‘自杀了！我的妈呀！ “这是毫无疑问的吗？”霍尔华德喊道，抬头看着他，脸上露出惊恐的表情。

‘My dear Basil! Surely you don’t think it was a vulgar accident? Of course she killed herself It is one of the great romantic tragedies of the age. As a rule, people who act lead the most commonplace lives. They are good husbands, or faithful wives, or something tedious. You know what I mean,—middle-class virtue, and all that kind of thing. How different Sibyl was! She lived her finest tragedy. She was always a heroine. The last night she played—the night you saw her—she acted badly because she had known the reality of love. When she knew its unreality, she died, as Juliet might have died. She passed again into the sphere of art. There is something of the martyr about her. Her death has all the pathetic uselessness of martyrdom, all its wasted beauty. But, as I was saying, you must not think I have not suffered. If you had come in yesterday at a particular moment,—about half-past five, perhaps, or a quarter to six,—you would have found me in tears. Even Harry, who was here, who brought me the news, in fact, had no idea what I was going through. I suffered immensely, then it passed away. I cannot repeat an emotion. No one can, except sentimentalists. And you are awfully unjust, Basil. You come down here to console me. That is charming of you. You find me consoled, and you are furious. How like a sympathetic person! You remind me of a story Harry told me about a certain philanthropist who spent twenty years of his life in trying to get some grievance redressed, or some unjust law altered,—I forget exactly what it was. Finally he succeeded, and nothing could exceed his disappointment. He had absolutely nothing to do, almost died of ennui, and became a confirmed misanthrope. And besides, my dear old Basil, if you really want to console me, teach me rather to forget what has happened, or to see it from a proper artistic point of view. Was it not Gautier who used to write about la consolation des arts? I remember picking up a little vellum-covered book in your studio one day and chancing on that delightful phrase. Well, I am not like that young man you told me of when we were down at Marlowe together, the young man who used to say that yellow satin could console one for all the miseries of life. I love beautiful things that one can touch and handle. Old brocades, green bronzes, lacquerwork, carved ivories, exquisite surroundings, luxury, pomp,—there is much to be got from all these. But the artistic temperament that they create, or at any rate reveal, is still more to me. To become the spectator of one’s own life, as Harry says, is to escape the suffering of life. I know you are surprised at my talking to you like this. You have not realized how I have developed. I was a school-boy when you knew me. I am a man now. I have new passions, new thoughts, new ideas. I am different, but you must not like me less. I am changed, but you must always be my friend. Of course I am very fond of Harry. But I know that you are better than he is. You are not stronger,—you are too much afraid of life,—but you are better. And how happy we used to be together! Don’t leave me, Basil, and don’t quarrel with me. I am what I am. There is nothing more to be said.’
“我亲爱的巴兹尔！你肯定不认为这是一起庸俗的事故吧？当然，她自杀了，这是那个时代最伟大的浪漫悲剧之一。一般来说，行动的人过着最平凡的生活。他们是好丈夫，或者是忠实的妻子，或者是一些乏味的东西。你知道我的意思——中产阶级的美德，以及诸如此类的东西。西比尔是多么不同啊！她经历了她最美好的悲剧。她一直都是女主角。她演奏的最后一晚——你见到她的那个晚上——她表现得很糟糕，因为她知道爱的现实。当她知道这不真实时，她就死了，就像朱丽叶可能死的那样。她再次进入艺术领域。她身上有一种烈士的气质。她的死具有殉道的所有可悲的无用性，所有的美丽都被浪费了。但是，正如我所说，你一定不要认为我没有受苦。如果你昨天在某个特定的时刻进来——也许是五点半左右，或者六点一刻——你会发现我在流泪。事实上，就连在场的哈利给我带来了这个消息，他也不知道我正在经历什么。我承受了巨大的痛苦，然后它就消失了。我无法重复一种情感。除了感伤主义者之外，没有人能做到这一点。你太不公正了，巴兹尔。你来这里是为了安慰我。这就是你的魅力所在。你发现我很安慰，而你却很愤怒。多么像一个富有同情心的人啊！你让我想起哈利给我讲的一个故事，讲的是一位慈善家花了二十年的时间试图平息一些不满，或者改变一些不公正的法律，我完全忘记了那是什么。最终他成功了，但没有什么比他更失望的了。他无所事事，几乎无聊死了，成了一个彻头彻尾的厌世者。 此外，我亲爱的老巴兹尔，如果你真的想安慰我，请教我宁愿忘记发生过的事情，或者从正确的艺术角度看待它。戈蒂埃不是曾经写过《艺术的安慰》吗？我记得有一天在你的工作室里拿起一本牛皮纸封面的小书，偶然想到了那句令人愉快的短语。好吧，我不像你告诉我的那个年轻人，当我们一起去马洛时，那个年轻人常常说黄色缎子可以安慰一个人生活中的所有痛苦。我喜欢人们可以触摸和处理的美丽事物。古锦、青铜、漆器、象牙雕刻，环境优美，奢华、排场，值得一看。但它们所创造的艺术气质，或者至少是所揭示的艺术气质，对我来说仍然更重要。正如哈利所说，成为自己生活的旁观者，就是逃避生活的痛苦。我知道你对我这样跟你说话感到惊讶。你还没有意识到我是如何发展的。当你认识我的时候我还是个小学生。我现在是一个男人了。我有新的激情、新的想法、新的想法。我与众不同，但你一定不能少喜欢我。我变了，但你必须永远是我的朋友。当然，我非常喜欢哈利。但我知道你比他优秀。你并不坚强——你太害怕生活了——但你更好了。我们以前在一起是多么幸福啊！不要离开我，巴兹尔，也不要与我争吵。我就是我。没什么可说的了。’

Hallward felt strangely moved. Rugged and straightforward as he was, there was something in his nature that was purely feminine in its tenderness. The lad was infinitely dear to him, and his personality had been the great turning-point in his art. He could not bear the idea of reproaching him any more. After all, his indifference was probably merely a mood that would pass away. There was so much in him that was good, so much in him that was noble.
霍尔华德感到一种奇怪的感动。尽管他性格粗暴、直率，但他的性格中却有一种纯粹女性化的温柔。这个小伙子对他来说是无限珍贵的，他的个性是他艺术上的伟大转折点。他无法忍受再责备他了。毕竟，他的冷漠或许只是一种会消逝的心情。他身上有那么多善良的地方，他身上有那么多高贵的地方。

‘Well, Dorian,’ he said, at length, with a sad smile, ‘I won’t speak to you again about this horrible thing, after to-day. I only trust your name won’t be mentioned in connection with it. The inquest is to take place this afternoon. Have they summoned you?’
“好吧，多里安，”他最后说道，带着悲伤的微笑，“今天之后我不会再和你谈论这件可怕的事情了。”我只相信你的名字不会被提及。调查定于今天下午进行。他们传唤你了吗？

Dorian shook his head, and a look of annoyance passed over his face at the mention of the word ‘inquest.’ There was something so crude and vulgar about everything of the kind. ‘They don’t know my name,’ he answered.
多里安摇了摇头，一提到“审讯”这个词，他的脸上就闪过了一丝恼怒的表情。这类事情都显得如此粗鲁和粗俗。 “他们不知道我的名字，”他回答道。

‘But surely she did?’
“但她确实做到了？”

‘Only my Christian name, and that I am quite sure she never mentioned to any one. She told me once that they were all rather curious to learn who I was, and that she invariably told them my name was Prince Charming. It was pretty of her. You must do me a drawing of her, Basil. I should like to have something more of her than the memory of a few kisses and some broken pathetic words.’
“只有我的教名，而且我很确定她从未向任何人提起过。有一次她告诉我，他们都很想知道我是谁，她总是告诉他们我的名字是白马王子。她很漂亮。你必须给我画一张她的画，巴兹尔。我想要更多关于她的东西，而不是关于几个吻和一些破碎而可怜的话语的记忆。

‘I will try and do something, Dorian, if it would please you. But you must come and sit to me yourself again. I can’t get on without you.’
“我会尝试做点什么，多里安，如果你高兴的话。”但你必须亲自来坐到我身边。没有你我就活不下去。

‘I will never sit to you again, Basil. It is impossible!’ he exclaimed, starting back.
“我再也不会坐在你旁边了，巴兹尔。这是不可能的！”他惊呼道，向后退了一步。

Hallward stared at him, ‘My dear boy, what nonsense!’ he cried. ‘Do you mean to say you don’t like what I did of you? Where is it? Why have you pulled the screen in front of it? Let me look at it. It is the best thing I have ever painted. Do take that screen away, Dorian. It is simply horrid of your servant hiding my work like that. I felt the room looked different as I came in.’
霍尔华德盯着他，“我亲爱的孩子，真是胡说八道！”他喊道。 ‘你的意思是说你不喜欢我对你做的事吗？它在哪里？为什么要把屏幕拉到它前面？让我看看。这是我画过的最好的东西。一定要把那个屏幕拿走，多里安。你的仆人这样隐藏我的工作真是太可怕了。当我进来时，我觉得房间看起来不一样了。”

‘My servant has nothing to do with it, Basil. You don’t imagine I let him arrange my room for me? He settles my flowers for me sometimes,—that is all. No; I did it myself. The light was too strong on the portrait.’
“我的仆人与这件事无关，巴兹尔。你不会以为我让他给我安排房间吧？有时他会帮我整理鲜花——仅此而已。不;我自己做的。肖像上的光线太强了。”

‘Too strong! Impossible, my dear fellow! It is an admirable place for it. Let me see it.’ And Hallward walked towards the corner of the room.
'太强大了！不可能的，我亲爱的朋友！这是一个令人钦佩的地方。让我看看。”霍尔华德朝房间的角落走去。

A cry of terror broke from Dorian Gray’s lips, and he rushed between Hallward and the screen. ‘Basil,’ he said, looking very pale, ‘you must not look at it. I don’t wish you to.’
道连·格雷嘴里发出一声惊恐的叫喊，冲到了霍尔华德和屏幕之间。 “巴兹尔，”他脸色苍白地说，“你不能看它。”我不希望你这么做。

‘Not look at my own work! you are not serious. Why shouldn’t I look at it?’ exclaimed Hallward, laughing.
‘别看我自己的作品！你不认真。 “为什么我不应该看它呢？”霍尔华德笑着说道。

‘If you try to look at it, Basil, on my word of honor I will never speak to you again as long as I live. I am quite serious. I don’t offer any explanation, and you are not to ask for any. But, remember, if you touch this screen, everything is over between us.’
“如果你试着看一下，巴兹尔，我以名誉担保，只要我活着，我就再也不会和你说话了。”我是很认真的。我不提供任何解释，你也不要要求任何解释。但是，请记住，如果你触摸这个屏幕，我们之间的一切就结束了。”

Hallward was thunderstruck. He looked at Dorian Gray in absolute amazement. He had never seen him like this before. The lad was absolutely pallid with rage. His hands were clinched, and the pupils of his eyes were like disks of blue fire. He was trembling all over.
霍尔华德惊呆了。他惊讶地看着道林·格雷。他以前从未见过他这样。那小伙子气得脸色苍白。他的双手紧握，眼眸如同蓝色的火盘。他浑身都在颤抖。

‘Dorian!’
“多里安！”

‘Don’t speak!’
“别说话！”

‘But what is the matter? Of course I won’t look at it if you don’t want me to,’ he said, rather coldly, turning on his heel, and going over towards the window. ‘But, really, it seems rather absurd that I shouldn’t see my own work, especially as I am going to exhibit it in Paris in the autumn. I shall probably have to give it another coat of varnish before that, so I must see it some day, and why not today?’
‘可是到底是怎么回事呢？当然，如果你不想看，我就不会看。”他冷冷地说，转身朝窗户走去。 “但是，说实话，我不应该看到自己的作品，这似乎很荒谬，尤其是因为我将于秋天在巴黎展出它。在那之前我可能得再给它刷一层清漆，所以有一天我一定会看到它，为什么不今天呢？

‘To exhibit it! You want to exhibit it?’ exclaimed Dorian Gray, a strange sense of terror creeping over him. Was the world going to be shown his secret? Were people to gape at the mystery of his life? That was impossible. Something—he did not know what—had to be done at once.
‘展示它！你想展示它吗？”道林·格雷喊道，一种奇怪的恐惧感在他身上蔓延。他的秘密会被世人知道吗？人们会对他的身世之谜感到惊讶吗？那是不可能的。有件事——他不知道是什么——必须立即采取行动。

‘Yes: I don’t suppose you will object to that. Georges Petit is going to collect all my best pictures for a special exhibition in the Rue de Sèze, which will open the first week in October. The portrait will only be away a month. I should think you could easily spare it for that time. In fact, you are sure to be out of town. And if you hide it always behind a screen, you can’t care much abut it.’
“是的：我想你不会反对的。乔治·佩蒂特 (Georges Petit) 将收集我所有最好的照片，在塞兹街 (Rue de Sèze) 举办一场特别展览，该展览将于 10 月的第一周开幕。这幅肖像画将只剩下一个月的时间。我想你可以轻松地把它留到那段时间。事实上，你肯定是出城了。如果你总是把它藏在屏幕后面，你就不会太在意它。

Dorian Gray passed his hand over his forehead. There were beads of perspiration there. He felt that he was on the brink of a horrible danger. ‘You told me a month ago that you would never exhibit it,’ he said. ‘Why have you changed your mind? You people who go in for being consistent have just as many moods as others. The only difference is that your moods are rather meaningless. You can’t have forgotten that you assured me most solemnly that nothing in the world would induce you to send it to any exhibition. You told Harry exactly the same thing.’ He stopped suddenly, and a gleam of light came into his eyes. He remembered that Lord Henry had said to him once, half seriously and half in jest, ‘If you want to have an interesting quarter of an hour, get Basil to tell you why he won’t exhibit your picture. He told me why he wouldn’t, and it was a revelation to me.’ Yes, perhaps Basil, too, had his secret. He would ask him and try.
道连·格雷把手放在额头上。那里有汗珠。他感觉自己正处于可怕的危险边缘。 “你一个月前告诉我你永远不会展出它，”他说。 ‘你为什么改变主意？你们这些追求始终如一的人，和其他人一样有多种情绪。唯一的区别是你的情绪毫无意义。你不可能忘记，你曾郑重地向我保证，世界上没有任何事情会诱使你把它送到任何展览。你对哈利也说了同样的事情。”他突然停了下来，眼中闪过一丝光芒。他记得亨利勋爵曾经半严肃半开玩笑地对他说过：“如果你想度过有趣的一刻钟，就让巴兹尔告诉你为什么他不展示你的照片。”他告诉我他为什么不这样做，这对我来说是一个启示。”是的，也许巴兹尔也有他的秘密。他会问他并尝试。

‘Basil,’ he said, coming over quite close, and looking him straight in the face, ‘we have each of us a secret. Let me know yours, and I will tell you mine. What was your reason for refusing to exhibit my picture?’
“巴兹尔，”他靠得很近，直视着他的脸说道，“我们每个人都有一个秘密。让我知道你的，我也会告诉你我的。你拒绝展示我的照片的原因是什么？

Hallward shuddered in spite of himself. ‘Dorian, if I told you, you might like me less than you do, and you would certainly laugh at me. I could not bear your doing either of those two things. If you wish me never to look at your picture again, I am content. I have always you to look at. If you wish the best work I have ever done to be hidden from the world, I am satisfied. Your friendship is dearer to me than any fame or reputation.’
霍尔华德不由自主地颤抖起来。 “多里安，如果我告诉你，你可能会比现在更不喜欢我，而且你一定会嘲笑我。我无法忍受你做这两件事。如果你希望我再也不要看你的照片，我就满足了。我总有你看。如果您希望我所做的最好的工作不被世人所知，我很满意。对我来说，你的友谊比任何名声或声誉都更珍贵。

‘No, Basil, you must tell me,’ murmured Dorian Gray. ‘I think I have a right to know.’ His feeling of terror had passed away, and curiosity had taken its place. He was determined to find out Basil Hallward’s mystery.
“不，巴兹尔，你必须告诉我，”道林·格雷低声说道。 “我想我有权知道。”他的恐惧感消失了，取而代之的是好奇心。他决心找出巴兹尔·霍尔沃德的谜团。

‘Let us sit down, Dorian,’ said Hallward, looking pale and pained. ‘Let us sit down. I will sit in the shadow, and you shall sit in the sunlight. Our lives are like that. Just answer me one question. Have you noticed in the picture something that you did not like?— something that probably at first did not strike you, but that revealed itself to you suddenly?’
“让我们坐下来，多里安，”霍尔华德说道，他的脸色苍白而痛苦。 ‘我们坐下吧。我会坐在阴影里，你会坐在阳光下。我们的生活就是这样。请回答我一个问题。你是否在照片中注意到了一些你不喜欢的东西？——一些东西一开始可能没有打动你，但突然向你显现出来了？

‘Basil!’ cried the lad, clutching the arms of his chair with trembling hands, and gazing at him with wild, startled eyes.
“巴兹尔！”小伙子喊道，他的手颤抖着，紧紧抓住椅子的扶手，用狂野而惊愕的眼睛看着他。

‘I see you did. Don’t speak. Wait till you hear what I have to say. It is quite true that I have worshipped you with far more romance of feeling than a man usually gives to a friend. Somehow, I had never loved a woman. I suppose I never had time. Perhaps, as Harry says, a really ‘grande passion’ is the privilege of those who have nothing to do, and that is the use of the idle classes in a country. Well, from the moment I met you, your personality had the most extraordinary influence over me. I quite admit that I adored you madly, extravagantly, absurdly. I was jealous of every one to whom you spoke. I wanted to have you all to myself. I was only happy when I was with you. When I was away from you, you were still present in my art. It was all wrong and foolish. It is all wrong and foolish still. Of course I never let you know anything about this. It would have been impossible. You would not have understood it; I did not understand it myself. One day I determined to paint a wonderful portrait of you. It was to have been my masterpiece. It is my masterpiece. But, as I worked at it, every flake and film of color seemed to me to reveal my secret. I grew afraid that the world would know of my idolatry. I felt, Dorian, that I had told too much. Then it was that I resolved never to allow the picture to be exhibited. You were a little annoyed; but then you did not realize all that it meant to me. Harry, to whom I talked about it, laughed at me. But I did not mind that. When the picture was finished, and I sat alone with it, I felt that I was right. Well, after a few days the portrait left my studio, and as soon as I had got rid of the intolerable fascination of its presence it seemed to me that I had been foolish in imagining that I had said anything in it, more than that you were extremely good-looking and that I could paint. Even now I cannot help feeling that it is a mistake to think that the passion one feels in creation is ever really shown in the work one creates. Art is more abstract than we fancy. Form and color tell us of form and color,—that is all. It often seems to me that art conceals the artist far more completely than it ever reveals him. And so when I got this offer from Paris I determined to make your portrait the principal thing in my exhibition. It never occurred to me that you would refuse. I see now that you were right. The picture must not be shown. You must not be angry with me, Dorian, for what I have told you. As I said to Harry, once, you are made to be worshipped.’
‘我看你做到了。别说话。等你听到我要说的话。确实，我对你的崇拜之情比男人通常给予朋友的感情要浪漫得多。不知怎的，我从来没有爱过一个女人。我想我从来没有时间。或许，正如哈利所说，真正的“伟大的激情”是那些无事可做的人的特权，那就是对一个国家闲散阶级的利用。嗯，从我遇见你的那一刻起，你的性格就对我产生了最非凡的影响。我承认我对你的爱是疯狂的、奢侈的、荒谬的。我嫉妒每一个与你交谈过的人。我想把你们全部据为己有。只有和你在一起的时候我才感到快乐。当我离开你的时候，你仍然存在于我的艺术中。这一切都是错误和愚蠢的。这仍然是错误和愚蠢的。当然，我从来没有让你知道这件事。这是不可能的。你不会理解它；我自己也不明白。有一天，我决定为你画一幅精彩的肖像。这本来是我的杰作。这是我的杰作。但是，当我研究它时，每一片颜色和每一层颜色对我来说似乎都揭示了我的秘密。我越来越害怕全世界都会知道我的偶像崇拜。多里安，我觉得我说得太多了。然后我就决定不再让这幅画展出。你有点生气；但那时你并没有意识到这对我意味着什么。我向哈利谈论了这件事，他嘲笑我。但我并不介意。当这幅画完成后，我独自坐在它旁边，我觉得我是对的。 好吧，几天后，这幅肖像离开了我的工作室，当我摆脱了它的存在所带来的难以忍受的迷恋后，我觉得我愚蠢地以为我在它上面说了任何话，比你说的还要多。非常好看而且我可以画画。即使是现在，我仍忍不住觉得，认为一个人在创作中感受到的激情真正体现在他所创作的作品中是错误的。艺术比我们想象的更抽象。形状和颜色告诉我们形状和颜色，仅此而已。在我看来，艺术对艺术家的隐藏远比对艺术家的揭示要彻底得多。因此，当我收到巴黎的邀请时，我决定将您的肖像作为我展览的主要内容。我没想到你会拒绝。我现在明白你是对的。不得显示该图片。多里安，你千万不要因为我告诉你的话而生我的气。正如我曾经对哈利说过的，你生来就是为了被崇拜的。’

Dorian Gray drew a long breath. The color came back to his cheeks, and a smile played about his lips. The peril was over. He was safe for the time. Yet he could not help feeling infinite pity for the young man who had just made this strange confession to him. He wondered if he would ever be so dominated by the personality of a friend. Lord Harry had the charm of being very dangerous. But that was all. He was too clever and too cynical to be really fond of. Would there ever be some one who would fill him with a strange idolatry? Was that one of the things that life had in store?
道连·格雷长长地吸了一口气。他的脸颊恢复了血色，嘴角浮现出微笑。危险已经过去了。他暂时安全了。但他又忍不住对这个刚刚向他坦白这奇怪的年轻人感到无限的怜悯。他想知道自己是否会如此被朋友的个性所左右。哈利勋爵有一种非常危险的魅力。但仅此而已。他太聪明，也太愤世嫉俗，不值得真正喜欢。会有人让他充满一种奇怪的偶像崇拜吗？这是生活即将发生的事情之一吗？

‘It is extraordinary to me, Dorian,’ said Hallward, ‘that you should have seen this in the picture. Did you really see it?’
“对我来说，这很不寻常，多里安，”霍尔华德说，“你应该在照片中看到这一点。你真的看到了吗？

‘Of course I did.’
'我当然做了。'

‘Well, you don’t mind my looking at it now?’
“好吧，你不介意我现在看它吧？”

Dorian shook his head. ‘You must not ask me that, Basil. I could not possibly let you stand in front of that picture.’
多里安摇了摇头。 “你不许问我这个问题，巴兹尔。我不可能让你站在那张照片前。

‘You will some day, surely?’
“总有一天你会的，一定吗？”

‘Never.’
'绝不。'

‘Well, perhaps you are right. And now good-by, Dorian. You have been the one person in my life of whom I have been really fond. I don’t suppose I shall often see you again. You don’t know what it cost me to tell you all that I have told you.’
‘嗯，也许你是对的。现在再见了，多里安。你是我生命中唯一一个我真正喜欢的人。我想我不会经常再见到你了。你不知道我为了告诉你我告诉你的一切付出了多大的代价。

‘My dear Basil,’ cried Dorian, ‘what have you told me? Simply that you felt that you liked me too much. That is not even a compliment.’
“我亲爱的巴兹尔，”多里安喊道，“你告诉了我什么？只是你觉得你太喜欢我了。这甚至不是一种恭维。

‘It was not intended as a compliment. It was a confession.’
“这并不是一种恭维。这是一种忏悔。

‘A very disappointing one.’
“非常令人失望。”

‘Why, what did you expect, Dorian? You didn’t see anything else in the picture, did you? There was nothing else to see?’
‘为什么，你期待什么，多里安？你在照片中没有看到其他任何东西，是吗？还有什么可看的吗？

‘No: there was nothing else to see. Why do you ask? But you mustn’t talk about not meeting me again, or anything of that kind. You and I are friends, Basil, and we must always remain so.’
“不：没有什么可看的。你为什么要问？但你不许谈论再也见不到我之类的话。你和我是朋友，巴兹尔，我们必须永远如此。

‘You have got Harry,’ said Hallward, sadly.
“你抓住了哈利，”霍尔华德悲伤地说。

‘Oh, Harry!’ cried the lad, with a ripple of laughter. ‘Harry spends his days in saying what is incredible, and his evenings in doing what is improbable. Just the sort of life I would like to lead. But still I don’t think I would go to Harry if I was in trouble. I would sooner go to you, Basil.’
“哦，哈利！”小伙子喊道，脸上爆发出阵阵笑声。 “哈利白天都在说令人难以置信的事情，而晚上则在做不可能的事情。这正是我想要的生活。但我仍然认为，如果我遇到麻烦，我不会去找哈利。我宁愿去找你，巴兹尔。

‘But you won’t sit to me again?’
“但是你不会再坐在我旁边吗？”

‘Impossible!’
'不可能的！'

‘You spoil my life as an artist by refusing, Dorian. No man comes across two ideal things. Few come across one.’
“你的拒绝毁了我作为艺术家的生活，多里安。没有人会遇到两件理想的事情。很少有人遇到过。

‘I can’t explain it to you, Basil, but I must never sit to you again. I will come and have tea with you. That will be just as pleasant.’
“我无法向你解释，巴兹尔，但我绝不能再坐在你面前。我来和你一起喝茶。那会同样令人愉快。

‘Pleasanter for you, I am afraid,’ murmured Hallward, regretfully. ‘And now good-by. I am sorry you won’t let me look at the picture once again. But that can’t be helped. I quite understand what you feel about it.’
“恐怕对你来说更愉快，”霍尔华德遗憾地低声说道。 ‘现在再见了。很抱歉你不让我再看一遍这张照片。但这也是没办法的事。我非常理解你对此的感受。

As he left the room, Dorian Gray smiled to himself. Poor Basil! how little he knew of the true reason! And how strange it was that, instead of having been forced to reveal his own secret, he had succeeded, almost by chance, in wresting a secret from his friend! How much that strange confession explained to him! Basil’s absurd fits of jealousy, his wild devotion, his extravagant panegyrics, his curious reticences,—he understood them all now, and he felt sorry. There was something tragic in a friendship so colored by romance.
当他离开房间时，道林·格雷对自己笑了笑。可怜的巴兹尔！他对真正的原因知之甚少！多么奇怪的是，他非但没有被迫透露自己的秘密，反而几乎是偶然地从他的朋友那里夺取了一个秘密！这个奇怪的坦白给了他多少解释啊！巴兹尔那荒唐的嫉妒心、他的疯狂奉献、他过分的赞美、他奇怪的沉默寡言——他现在全都明白了，他感到抱歉。一段被浪漫色彩笼罩的友谊中存在着一些悲剧性的东西。

He sighed, and touched the bell. The portrait must be hidden away at all costs. He could not run such a risk of discovery again. It had been mad of him to have the thing remain, even for an hour, in a room to which any of his friends had access.
他叹了口气，伸手按了按门铃。必须不惜一切代价将肖像藏起来。他不能再冒被发现的风险了。他把他的东西留在他任何朋友都可以进入的房间里，哪怕是一个小时，他都觉得很疯狂。

Chapter VIII
第八章

When his servant entered, he looked at him steadfastly, and wondered if he had thought of peering behind the screen. The man was quite impassive, and waited for his orders. Dorian lit a cigarette, and walked over to the glass and glanced into it. He could see the reflection of Victor’s face perfectly. It was like a placid mask of servility. There was nothing to be afraid of, there. Yet he thought it best to be on his guard.
当他的仆人进来时，他定定地看着他，不知道他是否想过从屏风后面往外看。那人面无表情，静静等待着他的命令。多里安点了一支烟，走到玻璃前看了一眼。他可以清楚地看到维克多的脸的倒影。这就像一副平静的奴性面具。那里没有什么可害怕的。但他认为最好还是保持警惕。

Speaking very slowly, he told him to tell the housekeeper that he wanted to see her, and then to go to the frame-maker’s and ask him to send two of his men round at once. It seemed to him that as the man left the room he peered in the direction of the screen. Or was that only his fancy?
他慢慢地说，让他告诉管家他想见她，然后去框架制造商那里，请他立即派两个人过来。在他看来，当那个人离开房间时，他凝视着屏幕的方向。或者这只是他的幻想？

After a few moments, Mrs. Leaf, a dear old lady in a black silk dress, with a photograph of the late Mr. Leaf framed in a large gold brooch at her neck, and old-fashioned thread mittens on her wrinkled hands, bustled into the room.
过了一会儿，利夫太太，一位可爱的老太太，穿着黑色丝质连衣裙，脖子上挂着一枚大金胸针，挂着一张已故利夫先生的照片，布满皱纹的手上戴着老式丝线手套，忙忙碌碌起来。进入那间房间。

‘Well, Master Dorian,’ she said, ‘what can I do for you? I beg your pardon, sir,’—here came a courtesy,—‘I shouldn’t call you Master Dorian any more. But, Lord bless you, sir, I have known you since you were a baby, and many’s the trick you’ve played on poor old Leaf. Not that you were not always a good boy, sir; but boys will be boys, Master Dorian, and jam is a temptation to the young, isn’t it, sir?’
“那么，多里安大师，”她说，“有什么可以为您效劳的吗？”请您原谅，先生，”——这是一种礼貌，——“我不应该再叫你多里安少爷了。但是，上帝保佑你，先生，我从你还是个婴儿的时候就认识你了，你对可怜的老叶子玩过很多把戏。先生，这并不是说您不总是一个好孩子；而是说您一直都是个好孩子。但男孩就是男孩，多里安少爷，果酱对年轻人来说是一种诱惑，不是吗，先生？

He laughed. ‘You must always call me Master Dorian, Leaf. I will be very angry with you if you don’t. And I assure you I am quite as fond of jam now as I used to be. Only when I am asked out to tea I am never offered any. I want you to give me the key of the room at the top of the house.’
他笑了。 “你必须一直叫我多里安大师，叶子。如果你不这样做，我会对你很生气。我向你保证，我现在和以前一样喜欢果酱。只有当我被邀请出去喝茶时，我才不会被邀请。我要你给我房子顶层房间的钥匙。

‘The old school-room, Master Dorian? Why, it’s full of dust. I must get it arranged and put straight before you go into it. It’s not fit for you to see, Master Dorian. It is not, indeed.’
“多里安大师，旧教室吗？为什么呢，满是灰尘。在你开始之前我必须把它安排好并整理好。这不适合你看，多里安大师。确实不是。

‘I don’t want it put straight, Leaf. I only want the key.’
“我不想把事情说清楚，叶。我只想要钥匙。

‘Well, Master Dorian, you’ll be covered with cobwebs if you goes into it. Why, it hasn’t been opened for nearly five years,—not since his lordship died.’
“好吧，多里安大师，如果你进去的话，你会被蜘蛛网覆盖的。”哎呀，它已经快五年没有打开过了——自从大人去世后就没有再打开过。”

He winced at the mention of his dead uncle’s name. He had hateful memories of him. ‘That does not matter, Leaf,’ he replied. ‘All I want is the key.’
提到他已故叔叔的名字，他皱起了眉头。他对他有可恨的回忆。 “那没关系，叶子，”他回答道。 “我想要的只是钥匙。”

‘And here is the key, Master Dorian,’ said the old lady, after going over the contents of her bunch with tremulously uncertain hands. ‘Here is the key. I’ll have it off the ring in a moment. But you don’t think of living up there, Master Dorian, and you so comfortable here?’
“这是钥匙，多里安大师。”老太太用颤抖的手检查了一堆东西后说道。 ‘这是钥匙。我一会儿就把它从戒指上取下来。但多里安少爷，你不想住在那里，而且你在这里很舒服吗？

‘No, Leaf, I don’t. I merely want to see the place, and perhaps store something in it,—that is all. Thank you, Leaf. I hope your rheumatism is better; and mind you send me up jam for breakfast.’
“不，叶，我不知道。我只是想看看这个地方，或许还能在里面储存一些东西——仅此而已。谢谢你，叶。希望你的风湿病好起来；请注意你给我送果酱当早餐。

Mrs. Leaf shook her head. ‘Them foreigners doesn’t understand jam, Master Dorian. They calls it ‘compot.’ But I’ll bring it to you myself some morning, if you lets me.’
叶夫人摇摇头。 “这些外国人不懂果酱，多里安大师。他们称之为“蜜饯”。但如果你允许的话，有一天早上我会亲自给你带来它。

‘That will be very kind of you, Leaf,’ he answered, looking at the key; and, having made him an elaborate courtesy, the old lady left the room, her face wreathed in smiles. She had a strong objection to the French valet. It was a poor thing, she felt, for any one to be born a foreigner.
“你真是太好了，叶，”他看着钥匙回答道。老太太向他做了一番精心的礼节后，脸上洋溢着微笑，离开了房间。她对法国贴身男仆有强烈的反对。她觉得，对于任何一个出生为外国人的人来说，这是一件可怜的事情。

As the door closed, Dorian put the key in his pocket, and looked round the room. His eye fell on a large purple satin coverlet heavily embroidered with gold, a splendid piece of late seventeenthcentury Venetian work that his uncle had found in a convent near Bologna. Yes, that would serve to wrap the dreadful thing in. It had perhaps served often as a pall for the dead. Now it was to hide something that had a corruption of its own, worse than the corruption of death itself,—something that would breed horrors and yet would never die. What the worm was to the corpse, his sins would be to the painted image on the canvas. They would mar its beauty, and eat away its grace. They would defile it, and make it shameful. And yet the thing would still live on. It would be always alive.
门关上后，多里安把钥匙放进口袋，环顾房间。他的目光落在了一件巨大的紫色缎子床单上，上面绣满了金子，这是他叔叔在博洛尼亚附近的一座修道院里发现的一件 17 世纪晚期威尼斯作品的精美作品。是的，这可以把可怕的东西包裹起来。它也许经常为死者遮盖。现在它要隐藏一些自身有腐败的东西，比死亡本身的腐败更糟糕——一些会滋生恐怖但永远不会死亡的东西。就像虫子之于尸体一样，他的罪恶之于画布上的图像。他们会破坏它的美丽，吞噬它的优雅。他们会玷污它，让它变得可耻。然而这件事仍然存在。它会永远活着。

He shuddered, and for a moment he regretted that he had not told Basil the true reason why he had wished to hide the picture away. Basil would have helped him to resist Lord Henry’s influence, and the still more poisonous influences that came from his own temperament. The love that he bore him—for it was really love—had something noble and intellectual in it. It was not that mere physical admiration of beauty that is born of the senses, and that dies when the senses tire. It was such love as Michael Angelo had known, and Montaigne, and Winckelmann, and Shakespeare himself. Yes, Basil could have saved him. But it was too late now. The past could always be annihilated. Regret, denial, or forgetfulness could do that. But the future was inevitable. There were passions in him that would find their terrible outlet, dreams that would make the shadow of their evil real.
他浑身发抖，有一瞬间他后悔自己没有告诉巴兹尔他想把照片藏起来的真正原因。巴兹尔本来可以帮助他抵抗亨利勋爵的影响，以及来自他自己脾气的更有害的影响。他对他的爱——因为那是真正的爱——里面有一些高贵和理智的东西。这不仅仅是对美的身体上的欣赏，它是由感官产生的，当感官疲劳时就会消失。这是米开朗基罗、蒙田、温克尔曼和莎士比亚本人都知道的爱。是的，巴兹尔本来可以救他。但现在已经太晚了。过去总是可以被消灭的。后悔、否认或健忘都可以做到这一点。但未来是不可避免的。他内心的激情会找到可怕的发泄方式，梦想会使邪恶的阴影成为现实。

He took up from the couch the great purple-and-gold texture that covered it, and, holding it in his hands, passed behind the screen. Was the face on the canvas viler than before? It seemed to him that it was unchanged; and yet his loathing of it was intensified. Gold hair, blue eyes, and rose-red lips,—they all were there. It was simply the expression that had altered. That was horrible in its cruelty. Compared to what he saw in it of censure or rebuke, how shallow Basil’s reproaches about Sibyl Vane had been!—how shallow, and of what little account! His own soul was looking out at him from the canvas and calling him to judgment. A look of pain came across him, and he flung the rich pall over the picture. As he did so, a knock came to the door. He passed out as his servant entered.
他从沙发上拿起覆盖在上面的巨大的紫金色纹理，然后将其握在手中，从屏风后面穿过。画布上的脸是不是比以前更丑陋了？在他看来，一切都没有改变。然而他对它的厌恶却更加强烈了。金色的头发，蓝色的眼睛，玫瑰红色的嘴唇——全都在那里。只是表情变了。这其残忍程度是非常可怕的。与他所看到的谴责或斥责相比，巴兹尔对西比尔·文的责备是多么肤浅啊！——多么肤浅，又是多么微不足道啊！他自己的灵魂正在画布上看着他，召唤他做出判断。他脸上闪现出痛苦的表情，然后他把那层厚厚的薄纱扔到了照片上。当他这样做时，门外响起了敲门声。当他的仆人进来时，他昏倒了。

‘The persons are here, monsieur.’
“先生，人都在这里。”

He felt that the man must be got rid of at once. He must not be allowed to know where the picture was being taken to. There was something sly about him, and he had thoughtful, treacherous eyes. Sitting down at the writing-table, he scribbled a note to Lord Henry, asking him to send him round something to read, and reminding him that they were to meet at eight-fifteen that evening.
他觉得必须立刻除掉这个人。一定不能让他知道照片被拍摄到哪里。他身上有一种狡猾的感觉，他的眼睛里充满了深思熟虑和奸诈。他在写字台前坐下，给亨利勋爵写了一张纸条，请他送一些东西给他读，并提醒他他们将于那天晚上八点十五分见面。

‘Wait for an answer,’ he said, handing it to him, ‘and show the men in here.’
“等待答复，”他一边说，一边把东西递给他，“然后带那些人到这里来。”

In two or three minutes there was another knock, and Mr. Ashton himself, the celebrated frame-maker of South Audley Street, came in with a somewhat rough-looking young assistant. Mr. Ashton was a florid, red-whiskered little man, whose admiration for art was considerably tempered by the inveterate impecuniosity of most of the artists who dealt with him. As a rule, he never left his shop. He waited for people to come to him. But he always made an exception in favor of Dorian Gray. There was something about Dorian that charmed everybody. It was a pleasure even to see him.
两三分钟后，又传来敲门声，南奥德利街著名的框架制造商阿什顿先生本人带着一位看上去有些粗鲁的年轻助手走了进来。阿什顿先生是一位面容红润、留着红胡须的小个子，他对艺术的钦佩因与他打交道的大多数艺术家都一文不名而受到很大影响。按照惯例，他从不离开他的店。他等待着人们来找他。但他总是破例支持道林·格雷。多里安身上有一种让每个人着迷的东西。即使见到他也很高兴。

‘What can I do for you, Mr. Gray?’ he said, rubbing his fat freckled hands. ‘I thought I would do myself the honor of coming round in person. I have just got a beauty of a frame, sir. Picked it up at a sale. Old Florentine. Came from Fonthill, I believe. Admirably suited for a religious picture, Mr. Gray.’
“格雷先生，我能为您效劳吗？”他一边说，一边揉着长满雀斑的肥胖双手。 “我想我会很荣幸亲自前来。先生，我刚刚得到了一副漂亮的相框。在促销时捡到的。老佛罗伦萨。我相信来自方特希尔。非常适合拍摄宗教照片，格雷先生。”

‘I am so sorry you have given yourself the trouble of coming round, Mr. Ashton. I will certainly drop in and look at the frame,—though I don’t go in much for religious art,—but to-day I only want a picture carried to the top of the house for me. It is rather heavy, so I thought I would ask you to lend me a couple of your men.’
“阿什顿先生，我很抱歉让您自己来过来。”我当然会顺便过来看看画框——虽然我不太热衷于宗教艺术——但今天我只想为我把一幅画搬到房子的顶上。它相当重，所以我想请你借给我几个人。”

‘No trouble at all, Mr. Gray. I am delighted to be of any service to you. Which is the work of art, sir?’
“一点也不麻烦，格雷先生。”我很高兴能为您提供任何服务。哪件是艺术品，先生？

‘This,’ replied Dorian, moving the screen back. ‘Can you move it, covering and all, just as it is? I don’t want it to get scratched going up-stairs.’
“这个，”多里安回答道，同时将屏幕移回原位。 ‘你能把它移动起来，覆盖住一切吗？我不想让它在上楼时被刮伤。

‘There will be no difficulty, sir,’ said the genial frame-maker, beginning, with the aid of his assistant, to unhook the picture from the long brass chains by which it was suspended. ‘And, now, where shall we carry it to, Mr. Gray?’
“不会有任何困难，先生，”和蔼可亲的相框制造者说，在助手的帮助下，开始把这幅画从悬挂它的长铜链上解下来。 “那么，现在我们该把它搬到哪里去呢，格雷先生？”

‘I will show you the way, Mr. Ashton, if you will kindly follow me. Or perhaps you had better go in front. I am afraid it is right at the top of the house. We will go up by the front staircase, as it is wider.’
“阿什顿先生，如果您愿意跟我来，我将为您指明道路。”或者你最好走在前面。恐怕它就在房子的顶部。我们将从前面的楼梯上去，因为它更宽。

He held the door open for them, and they passed out into the hall and began the ascent. The elaborate character of the frame had made the picture extremely bulky, and now and then, in spite of the obsequious protests of Mr. Ashton, who had a true tradesman’s dislike of seeing a gentleman doing anything useful, Dorian put his hand to it so as to help them.
他为他们打开门，他们走进大厅，开始上行。画框的精致特征使这幅画变得极其笨重，尽管阿什顿先生谄媚地抗议，他有一个真正的商人不喜欢看到绅士做任何有用的事情，多里安还是把手放在了它上面，这样来帮助他们。

‘Something of a load to carry, sir,’ gasped the little man, when they reached the top landing. And he wiped his shiny forehead.
“长官，需要搬运一些重物，”当他们到达顶部平台时，小个子男人喘着气说道。他擦了擦闪亮的额头。

‘A terrible load to carry,’ murmured Dorian, as he unlocked the door that opened into the room that was to keep for him the curious secret of his life and hide his soul from the eyes of men.
“背负着可怕的重担。”多里安一边低声说道，一边打开了通向房间的门，这个房间是为他保守他一生中令人好奇的秘密，并将他的灵魂隐藏起来不让人们看到的。

He had not entered the place for more than four years,—not, indeed, since he had used it first as a play-room when he was a child and then as a study when he grew somewhat older. It was a large, wellproportioned room, which had been specially built by the last Lord Sherard for the use of the little nephew whom, being himself childless, and perhaps for other reasons, he had always hated and desired to keep at a distance. It did not appear to Dorian to have much changed. There was the huge Italian cassone, with its fantastically-painted panels and its tarnished gilt mouldings, in which he had so often hidden himself as a boy. There was the satinwood bookcase filled with his dog-eared school-books. On the wall behind it was hanging the same ragged Flemish tapestry where a faded king and queen were playing chess in a garden, while a company of hawkers rode by, carrying hooded birds on their gauntleted wrists. How well he recalled it all! Every moment of his lonely childhood came back to him, as he looked round. He remembered the stainless purity of his boyish life, and it seemed horrible to him that it was here that the fatal portrait was to be hidden away. How little he had thought, in those dead days, of all that was in store for him!
他已经四年多没有进过这个地方了——事实上，没有，因为他小时候先把它当作游戏室，长大了之后又把它当作书房。这是一间宽敞、匀称的房间，是最后一位谢拉德勋爵专门为他的小侄子建造的，因为他自己没有孩子，或许还有其他原因，所以他一直讨厌并希望与他保持距离。在多里安看来，情况并没有发生太大变化。那里有一个巨大的意大利卡索内，其镶板漆得精美绝伦，镀金装饰线已经失去光泽，他小时候经常把自己藏在里面。缎木书柜里装满了他折角的教科书。后面的墙上挂着同样破烂的佛兰德斯挂毯，上面有一位褪色的国王和王后正在花园里下棋，一群小贩骑着马经过，他们戴着手套的手腕上带着戴着兜帽的鸟。他对这一切都记得多么清楚啊！当他环顾四周时，他孤独的童年的每一刻都在他的脑海中浮现。他记得自己童年生活的纯洁无瑕，而这幅致命的肖像竟然被藏在这里，这对他来说似乎很可怕。在那些死去的日子里，他是多么没有想到等待他的一切！

But there was no other place in the house so secure from prying eyes as this. He had the key, and no one else could enter it. Beneath its purple pall, the face painted on the canvas could grow bestial, sodden, and unclean. What did it matter? No one could see it. He himself would not see it. Why should he watch the hideous corruption of his soul? He kept his youth,—that was enough. And, besides, might not his nature grow finer, after all? There was no reason that the future should be so full of shame. Some love might come across his life, and purify him, and shield him from those sins that seemed to be already stirring in spirit and in flesh,—those curious unpictured sins whose very mystery lent them their subtlety and their charm. Perhaps, some day, the cruel look would have passed away from the scarlet sensitive mouth, and he might show to the world Basil Hallward’s masterpiece.
但家里没有其他地方比这里更安全，不被窥探。他有钥匙，其他人无法进入。在紫色的覆盖物之下，画在画布上的脸可能会变得兽性、湿透、肮脏。这有什么关系呢？没有人能看到它。他自己是不会看到的。他为什么要眼睁睁地看着自己灵魂的可怕腐败呢？他保住了青春——这就足够了。而且，除此之外，他的本性难道不会变得更加美好吗？未来没有理由充满耻辱。某种爱可能会降临在他的生命中，净化他，保护他免受那些似乎已经在精神和肉体上蠢蠢欲动的罪恶的侵害——那些奇怪的、未被描绘出来的罪恶，其神秘性赋予了它们微妙和魅力。或许，有一天，残酷的表情会从猩红敏感的嘴里消失，他可能会向世界展示巴兹尔·霍尔沃德的杰作。

No; that was impossible. The thing upon the canvas was growing old, hour by hour, and week by week. Even if it escaped the hideousness of sin, the hideousness of age was in store for it. The cheeks would become hollow or flaccid. Yellow crow’s-feet would creep round the fading eyes and make them horrible. The hair would lose its brightness, the mouth would gape or droop, would be foolish or gross, as the mouths of old men are. There would be the wrinkled throat, the cold blue-veined hands, the twisted body, that he remembered in the uncle who had been so stern to him in his boyhood. The picture had to be concealed. There was no help for it.
不;那是不可能的。画布上的东西在一小时一小时、一周一周地变老。即使它逃脱了罪恶的丑陋，岁月的丑陋也为它做好了准备。脸颊会变得凹陷或松弛。黄色的鱼尾纹会爬到褪色的眼睛周围，让它们变得可怕。头发会失去光泽，嘴巴会张开或下垂，变得愚蠢或粗俗，就像老人的嘴一样。他记得童年时对他如此严厉的叔叔，有那皱巴巴的喉咙、冰冷、青筋暴起的手、扭曲的身体。这张照片必须被隐藏起来。没有任何帮助。

‘Bring it in, Mr. Ashton, please,’ he said, wearily, turning round. ‘I am sorry I kept you so long. I was thinking of something else.’
“请把它拿进来，阿什顿先生，”他转过身来，疲倦地说。 ‘很抱歉让你耽搁了这么久。我在想别的事情。

‘Always glad to have a rest, Mr. Gray,’ answered the frame-maker, who was still gasping for breath. ‘Where shall we put it, sir?’
“总是很高兴能休息一下，格雷先生，”框架制造商回答道，他仍然气喘吁吁。 “我们该把它放在哪里，先生？”

‘Oh, anywhere, Here, this will do. I don’t want to have it hung up. Just lean it against the wall. Thanks.’
‘哦，任何地方，在这里，这个都可以。我不想让它挂掉。只需将其靠在墙上即可。谢谢。'

‘Might one look at the work of art, sir?’
“先生，可以看看这件艺术品吗？”

Dorian started. ‘It would not interest you, Mr. Ashton,’ he said, keeping his eye on the man. He felt ready to leap upon him and fling him to the ground if he dared to lift the gorgeous hanging that concealed the secret of his life. ‘I won’t trouble you any more now. I am much obliged for your kindness in coming round.’
多里安开始了。 “你不会感兴趣的，阿什顿先生，”他说，眼睛一直盯着那个人。如果他敢揭开隐藏着他生命秘密的华丽帷幔，他准备跳到他身上，把他扔到地上。 ‘我现在不会再麻烦你了。我非常感谢你的好意来到这里。

‘Not at all, not at all, Mr. Gray. Ever ready to do anything for you, sir.’ And Mr. Ashton tramped down-stairs, followed by the assistant, who glanced back at Dorian with a look of shy wonder in his rough, uncomely face. He had never seen any one so marvellous.
“一点也不，一点也不，格雷先生。随时准备为您做任何事，先生。”阿什顿先生大步走下楼，助理跟在后面，助理回头看了多里安一眼，粗糙难看的脸上带着害羞的惊讶表情。他从未见过如此出色的人。

When the sound of their footsteps had died away, Dorian locked the door, and put the key in his pocket. He felt safe now. No one would ever look on the horrible thing. No eye but his would ever see his shame.
当他们的脚步声消失后，多里安锁上门，把钥匙放进口袋里。他现在感到安全了。没有人会看到这可怕的事情。除了他的眼睛，没有人能看到他的耻辱。

On reaching the library he found that it was just after five o’clock, and that the tea had been already brought up. On a little table of dark perfumed wood thickly incrusted with nacre, a present from his guardian’s wife, Lady Radley, who had spent the preceding winter in Cairo, was lying a note from Lord Henry, and beside it was a book bound in yellow paper, the cover slightly torn and the edges soiled. A copy of the third edition of the St. James’s Gazette had been placed on the tea-tray. It was evident that Victor had returned. He wondered if he had met the men in the hall as they were leaving the house and had wormed out of them what they had been doing. He would be sure to miss the picture,—had no doubt missed it already, while he had been laying the tea-things. The screen had not been replaced, and the blank space on the wall was visible. Perhaps some night he might find him creeping up-stairs and trying to force the door of the room. It was a horrible thing to have a spy in one’s house. He had heard of rich men who had been blackmailed all their lives by some servant who had read a letter, or overheard a conversation, or picked up a card with an address, or found beneath a pillow a withered flower or a bit of crumpled lace.
到了图书馆，发现时间才五点多，茶已经端上来了。一张小桌子上放着一张厚厚的珍珠质深色芳香木头桌子，上面放着亨利勋爵的一张便条，上面放着一本用黄纸装订的书，是他监护人的妻子拉德利夫人送给她的礼物，她在开罗度过了前一个冬天。 ，盖子轻微撕裂，边缘弄脏。茶盘上放着一份第三版《圣詹姆斯公报》。很明显，维克多回来了。他想知道当他们离开房子时，他是否在大厅里遇见了他们，并从他们身上了解到了他们所做的事情。他肯定会错过这张照片——毫无疑问，当他正在摆放茶具时，他就已经错过了。屏风还没有更换，墙上的空白清晰可见。也许有一天晚上，他会发现他爬上楼，试图撬开房间的门。家里有间谍是一件可怕的事情。他听说过有钱人一生都被某个仆人勒索，这些仆人读了一封信，或者无意中听到了一场谈话，或者拿起了一张写有地址的卡片，或者在枕头下发现了一朵枯萎的花或一点皱巴巴的蕾丝。 。

He sighed, and, having poured himself out some tea, opened Lord Henry’s note. It was simply to say that he sent him round the evening paper, and a book that might interest him, and that he would be at the club at eight-fifteen. He opened the St. James’s languidly, and looked through it. A red pencil-mark on the fifth page caught his eye. He read the following paragraph:
他叹了口气，给自己倒了一些茶，打开了亨利勋爵的便条。只是说他给他送了一份晚报和一本他可能感兴趣的书，并且他将在八点十五分到达俱乐部。他懒洋洋地打开圣詹姆斯教堂，看了看。第五页上的一个红色铅笔标记引起了他的注意。他读了下面一段话：

‘INQUEST ON AN ACTRESS.—An inquest was held this morning at the Bell Tavern, Hoxton Road, by Mr. Danby, the District Coroner, on the body of Sibyl Vane, a young actress recently engaged at the Royal Theatre, Holborn. A verdict of death by misadventure was returned. Considerable sympathy was expressed for the mother of the deceased, who was greatly affected during the giving of her own evidence, and that of Dr. Birrell, who had made the post-mortem examination of the deceased.’
对女演员的审讯——今天早上，地区验尸官丹比先生在霍克斯顿路的贝尔酒馆对西比尔·文的尸体进行了审讯，她是一位最近在霍尔本皇家剧院订婚的年轻女演员。法院作出了意外死亡的判决。人们对死者的母亲以及对死者进行尸检的比雷尔博士表示了极大的同情，她在提供自己的证据时受到了很大的影响。

He frowned slightly, and, tearing the paper in two, went across the room and flung the pieces into a gilt basket. How ugly it all was! And how horribly real ugliness made things! He felt a little annoyed with Lord Henry for having sent him the account. And it was certainly stupid of him to have marked it with red pencil. Victor might have read it. The man knew more than enough English for that.
他微微皱起眉头，把纸撕成两半，穿过房间，把碎片扔进一个镀金篮子里。这一切是多么丑陋啊！事情变得多么可怕、真实、丑陋！他对亨利勋爵把账目发给他感到有点恼火。他用红铅笔做了标记，这确实是愚蠢的。维克多可能读过它。这个人的英语足够多了。

Perhaps he had read it, and had begun to suspect something. And, yet, what did it matter? What had Dorian Gray to do with Sibyl Vane’s death? There was nothing to fear. Dorian Gray had not killed her.
也许他读过这封信，并开始怀疑一些事情。然而，这又有什么关系呢？道林·格雷与西比尔·文的死有什么关系？没有什么好害怕的。道林·格雷没有杀她。

His eye fell on the yellow book that Lord Henry had sent him. What was it, he wondered. He went towards the little pearl-colored octagonal stand, that had always looked to him like the work of some strange Egyptian bees who wrought in silver, and took the volume up. He flung himself into an arm-chair, and began to turn over the leaves. After a few minutes, he became absorbed. It was the strangest book he had ever read. It seemed to him that in exquisite raiment, and to the delicate sound of flutes, the sins of the world were passing in dumb show before him. Things that he had dimly dreamed of were suddenly made real to him. Things of which he had never dreamed were gradually revealed.
他的目光落在亨利勋爵送给他的那本黄皮书上。他想知道那是什么。他走向珍珠色的八角形小看台，在他看来，那座看台一直像是一些奇怪的埃及蜜蜂用银制成的作品，然后把音量调大了。他一屁股坐在扶手椅上，开始翻书页。几分钟后，他全神贯注起来。这是他读过的最奇怪的书。在他看来，在精致的衣着中，在精致的笛声中，世间的罪孽在他面前以哑剧的方式传递。他曾经隐隐约约梦见的事情突然变成了现实。他做梦也想不到的事情逐渐显露出来。

It was a novel without a plot, and with only one character, being, indeed, simply a psychological study of a certain young Parisian, who spent his life trying to realize in the nineteenth century all the passions and modes of thought that belonged to every century except his own, and to sum up, as it were, in himself the various moods through which the world-spirit had ever passed, loving for their mere artificiality those renunciations that men have unwisely called virtue, as much as those natural rebellions that wise men still call sin. The style in which it was written was that curious jewelled style, vivid and obscure at once, full of argot and of archaisms, of technical expressions and of elaborate paraphrases, that characterizes the work of some of the finest artists of the French school of Décadents. There were in it metaphors as monstrous as orchids, and as evil in color. The life of the senses was described in the terms of mystical philosophy. One hardly knew at times whether one was reading the spiritual ecstasies of some mediaeval saint or the morbid confessions of a modern sinner. It was a poisonous book. The heavy odor of incense seemed to cling about its pages and to trouble the brain. The mere cadence of the sentences, the subtle monotony of their music, so full as it was of complex refrains and movements elaborately repeated, produced in the mind of the lad, as he passed from chapter to chapter, a form of revery, a malady of dreaming, that made him unconscious of the falling day and the creeping shadows.
这是一部没有情节、只有一个人物的小说，实际上只是对某个巴黎年轻人的心理研究，他一生都在试图实现十九世纪每个人的所有激情和思维方式。除了他自己的世纪之外，他在自己身上总结了世界精神所经历的各种情绪，热爱那些被人们不明智地称为美德的放弃，以及那些自然的叛逆，因为它们纯粹是人为的。智者仍然称罪为罪。它的写作风格是一种奇怪的珠宝风格，既生动又晦涩，充满了隐语和古语，充满了技术表达和复杂的释义，这是法国颓废学派一些最优秀艺术家的作品的特点。其中的隐喻像兰花一样可怕，颜色也一样邪恶。感官生活是用神秘哲学的术语来描述的。有时，人们几乎不知道自己正在阅读的是某个中世纪圣人的精神狂喜，还是现代罪人的病态忏悔。这是一本有毒的书。浓重的焚香气味似乎附着在书页上，困扰着大脑。仅仅是句子的节奏，音乐的微妙单调，充满了复杂的副歌和精心重复的动作，当他从一个章节读到另一个章节时，在这个小伙子的脑海中产生了一种遐想的形式，一种疾病梦境让他意识不到天色的降临和阴影的蔓延。

Cloudless, and pierced by one solitary star, a copper-green sky gleamed through the windows. He read on by its wan light till he could read no more. Then, after his valet had reminded him several times of the lateness of the hour, he got up, and, going into the next room, placed the book on the little Florentine table that always stood at his bedside, and began to dress for dinner.
万里无云，一颗孤独的星星穿过窗户，铜绿色的天空闪闪发光。他借着昏暗的灯光继续读下去，直到再也读不动为止。然后，在他的男仆多次提醒他时间已经很晚之后，他起身，走进隔壁房间，把书放在总是放在床边的佛罗伦萨小桌子上，开始穿衣服去准备晚餐。 。

It was almost nine o’clock before he reached the club, where he found Lord Henry sitting alone, in the morning-room, looking very bored.
快九点了，他才到达俱乐部，发现亨利勋爵独自一人坐在起居室里，看上去很无聊。

‘I am so sorry, Harry,’ he cried, ‘but really it is entirely your fault. That book you sent me so fascinated me that I forgot what the time was.’
“我很抱歉，哈利，”他喊道，“但这实际上完全是你的错。”你寄给我的那本书让我着迷，以至于我忘记了现在是什么时候。”

‘I thought you would like it,’ replied his host, rising from his chair.
“我以为你会喜欢的，”他的主人从椅子上站起来回答道。

‘I didn’t say I liked it, Harry. I said it fascinated me. There is a great difference.’
“我没说我喜欢它，哈利。我说这让我着迷。有很大的不同。

‘Ah, if you have discovered that, you have discovered a great deal,’ murmured Lord Henry, with his curious smile. ‘Come, let us go in to dinner. It is dreadfully late, and I am afraid the champagne will be too much iced.’
“啊，如果你发现了这一点，那么你就发现了很多东西。”亨利勋爵带着好奇的微笑低声说道。 ‘走吧，我们进去吃晚饭吧。已经太晚了，我担心香槟会冰太多。”

Chapter IX
第九章

For years, Dorian Gray could not free himself from the memory of this book. Or perhaps it would be more accurate to say that he never sought to free himself from it. He procured from Paris no less than five large-paper copies of the first edition, and had them bound in different colors, so that they might suit his various moods and the changing fancies of a nature over which he seemed, at times, to have almost entirely lost control. The hero, the wonderful young Parisian, in whom the romantic temperament and the scientific temperament were so strangely blended, became to him a kind of prefiguring type of himself. And, indeed, the whole book seemed to him to contain the story of his own life, written before he had lived it.
多年来，道林·格雷无法摆脱这本书的记忆。或者更准确地说，他从未试图摆脱它。他从巴黎购买了至少五本第一版的大纸本，并用不同的颜色装订成册，这样它们就可以适合他不同的心情和他有时似乎对大自然不断变化的幻想。几乎完全失去了控制。主人公，这位出色的年轻巴黎人，浪漫气质和科学气质如此奇怪地融合在一起，对他来说成为了他自己的一种预兆。事实上，在他看来，整本书似乎都包含了他自己的生活故事，是在他生活之前写的。

In one point he was more fortunate than the book’s fantastic hero. He never knew—never, indeed, had any cause to know—that somewhat grotesque dread of mirrors, and polished metal surfaces, and still water, which came upon the young Parisian so early in his life, and was occasioned by the sudden decay of a beauty that had once, apparently, been so remarkable. It was with an almost cruel joy—and perhaps in nearly every joy, as certainly in every pleasure, cruelty has its place—that he used to read the latter part of the book, with its really tragic, if somewhat over-emphasized, account of the sorrow and despair of one who had himself lost what in others, and in the world, he had most valued.
在某种程度上，他比书中的出色英雄还要幸运。他从来不知道——事实上，从来没有任何理由知道——这位年轻的巴黎人在他生命的早期就对镜子、抛光的金属表面和静止的水产生了某种奇怪的恐惧，这是由他生命的突然衰退引起的。显然，她曾经如此美丽。他常常怀着一种近乎残酷的快乐——也许在几乎每一种快乐中，就像在每一种快乐中一样，残酷都有其一席之地——他常常读到这本书的后半部分，其中的叙述确实是悲剧性的，尽管有些过分强调了。一个人失去了在别人身上、在这个世界上他最珍视的东西，他的悲伤和绝望。

He, at any rate, had no cause to fear that. The boyish beauty that had so fascinated Basil Hallward, and many others besides him, seemed never to leave him. Even those who had heard the most evil things against him (and from time to time strange rumors about his mode of life crept through London and became the chatter of the clubs) could not believe anything to his dishonor when they saw him. He had always the look of one who had kept himself unspotted from the world. Men who talked grossly became silent when Dorian Gray entered the room. There was something in the purity of his face that rebuked them. His mere presence seemed to recall to them the innocence that they had tarnished. They wondered how one so charming and graceful as he was could have escaped the stain of an age that was at once sordid and sensuous.
无论如何，他没有理由担心这一点。那种让巴兹尔·霍尔沃德以及除他之外的许多人如此着迷的男孩般的美感似乎从未离开过他。即使是那些听说过对他最恶毒的人（关于他生活方式的奇怪谣言时不时地传遍伦敦，成为俱乐部里的闲谈），当他们看到他时，也不会相信任何有损于他名誉的事情。他总是一副不为世俗所玷污的样子。当道林·格雷走进房间时，那些说话粗俗的男人们变得沉默了。他纯洁的脸上有某种责备他们的东西。他的存在似乎让他们想起了他们所玷污的纯真。他们想知道，像他这样迷人而优雅的人如何能够逃脱一个既肮脏又感性的时代的污点。

He himself, on returning home from one of those mysterious and prolonged absences that gave rise to such strange conjecture among those who were his friends, or thought that they were so, would creep up-stairs to the locked room, open the door with the key that never left him, and stand, with a mirror, in front of the portrait that Basil Hallward had painted of him, looking now at the evil and aging face on the canvas, and now at the fair young face that laughed back at him from the polished glass. The very sharpness of the contrast used to quicken his sense of pleasure. He grew more and more enamoured of his own beauty, more and more interested in the corruption of his own soul. He would examine with minute care, and often with a monstrous and terrible delight, the hideous lines that seared the wrinkling forehead or crawled around the heavy sensual mouth, wondering sometimes which were the more horrible, the signs of sin or the signs of age. He would place his white hands beside the coarse bloated hands of the picture, and smile. He mocked the misshapen body and the failing limbs.
他自己，在一次神秘而长期的缺席中，在他的朋友们中引起了如此奇怪的猜想，或者认为他们是这样的，一回到家，他就会爬上楼，来到上锁的房间，用钥匙从未离开过他，他拿着镜子站在巴兹尔·霍尔沃德为他画的肖像前，时而看着画布上那张邪恶而衰老的脸，时而看着那张对他笑的年轻而年轻的脸来自抛光玻璃。强烈的对比常常加速他的愉悦感。他越来越迷恋自己的美丽，越来越对自己灵魂的腐败感兴趣。他会仔细地检查那些可怕的纹路，这些纹路灼烧着皱纹的额头，或者爬行在厚重感性的嘴唇上，有时他想知道哪一个更可怕，罪孽的迹象还是年龄的迹象。他会把自己白皙的手放在照片上粗糙肿胀的手旁边，微笑着。他嘲笑畸形的身体和衰弱的四肢。

There were moments, indeed, at night, when, lying sleepless in his own delicately-scented chamber, or in the sordid room of the little ill-famed tavern near the Docks, which, under an assumed name, and in disguise, it was his habit to frequent, he would think of the ruin he had brought upon his soul, with a pity that was all the more poignant because it was purely selfish. But moments such as these were rare. That curiosity about life that, many years before, Lord Henry had first stirred in him, as they sat together in the garden of their friend, seemed to increase with gratification. The more he knew, the more he desired to know. He had mad hungers that grew more ravenous as he fed them.
确实，在晚上，有时候，他躺在自己散发着淡淡香味的房间里，或者躺在码头附近那家臭名昭著的小酒馆的肮脏房间里，睡不着觉。按照他的习惯，他会想到自己给自己的灵魂带来的毁灭，带着一种怜悯，这种怜悯更加令人心酸，因为这纯粹是自私的。但这样的时刻很少见。许多年前，当他们一起坐在朋友的花园里时，亨利勋爵第一次在他心中激起了对生活的好奇心，这种好奇心似乎随着满足而增加。他知道的越多，他就越想知道。他的饥饿感变得越来越强烈，当他给它们喂食时，这种饥饿感变得更加强烈。

Yet he was not really reckless, at any rate in his relations to society. Once or twice every month during the winter, and on each Wednesday evening while the season lasted, he would throw open to the world his beautiful house and have the most celebrated musicians of the day to charm his guests with the wonders of their art. His little dinners, in the settling of which Lord Henry always assisted him, were noted as much for the careful selection and placing of those invited, as for the exquisite taste shown in the decoration of the table, with its subtle symphonic arrangements of exotic flowers, and embroidered cloths, and antique plate of gold and silver. Indeed, there were many, especially among the very young men, who saw, or fancied that they saw, in Dorian Gray the true realization of a type of which they had often dreamed in Eton or Oxford days, a type that was to combine something of the real culture of the scholar with all the grace and distinction and perfect manner of a citizen of the world. To them he seemed to belong to those whom Dante describes as having sought to ‘make themselves perfect by the worship of beauty.’ Like Gautier, he was one for whom ‘the visible world existed.’
然而，至少在他与社会的关系上，他并不是真的鲁莽。冬天每个月一两次，以及季节持续期间的每个星期三晚上，他都会向世界开放他美丽的房子，并邀请当时最著名的音乐家用他们的艺术奇迹来吸引他的客人。亨利勋爵总是协助他安排他的小型晚宴，这些晚宴因其精心挑选和安排被邀请的人而闻名，也因为餐桌装饰所表现出的精致品味，以及微妙的交响乐般的异国花卉布置。 、绣花布、金银古董盘。事实上，有很多人，尤其是非常年轻的男人，在道林·格雷身上看到了或者幻想着看到了他们在伊顿公学或牛津大学时代经常梦想的那种类型的真正实现，一种将某些东西结合起来的类型。真正的学者文化，具有世界公民的优雅、卓越和完美的举止。对他们来说，他似乎属于但丁所描述的那些寻求“通过对美的崇拜使自己变得完美”的人。和戈蒂埃一样，他也是“可见世界存在”的人。

And, certainly, to him life itself was the first, the greatest, of the arts, and for it all the other arts seemed to be but a preparation. Fashion, by which what is really fantastic becomes for a moment universal, and Dandyism, which, in its own way, is an attempt to assert the absolute modernity of beauty, had, of course, their fascination for him. His mode of dressing, and the particular styles that he affected from time to time, had their marked influence on the young exquisites of the Mayfair balls and Pall Mall club windows, who copied him in everything that he did, and tried to reproduce the accidental charm of his graceful, though to him only half-serious, fopperies.
当然，对他来说，生活本身就是第一门、最伟大的艺术，对它来说，所有其他艺术似乎都只是一种准备。时尚，使真正奇妙的东西暂时变得普遍，而花花公子主义，以自己的方式试图主张美的绝对现代性，当然对他着迷。他的着装方式，以及他时不时影响的独特风格，对梅菲尔舞会和波美尔俱乐部橱窗里的年轻精致人士产生了显着的影响，他们模仿他所做的一切，并试图重现偶然发生的事情。他优雅的魅力，尽管对他来说只是半严肃的、纨绔子弟的。

For, while he was but too ready to accept the position that was almost immediately offered to him on his coming of age, and found, indeed, a subtle pleasure in the thought that he might really become to the London of his own day what to imperial Neronian Rome the author of the ‘Satyricon’ had once been, yet in his inmost heart he desired to be something more than a mere arbiter elegantiarum, to be consulted on the wearing of a jewel, or the knotting of a necktie, or the conduct of a cane. He sought to elaborate some new scheme of life that would have its reasoned philosophy and its ordered principles and find in the spiritualizing of the senses its highest realization.
因为，尽管他还准备好接受在他成年后几乎立即提供给他的职位，并且确实发现了一种微妙的快乐，因为他想到自己可能真的成为他那个时代的伦敦那样的人。 《萨蒂里孔》的作者曾经是尼禄帝国的罗马人，但在他内心深处，他渴望的不仅仅是一个优雅的仲裁者，在佩戴珠宝、打领带或打结等问题上接受咨询。手杖的行为。他试图阐述一些新的生活方案，其中有其合理的哲学和有序的原则，并在感官的灵性化中找到其最高的实现。

The worship of the senses has often, and with much justice, been decried, men feeling a natural instinct of terror about passions and sensations that seem stronger than ourselves, and that we are conscious of sharing with the less highly organized forms of existence. But it appeared to Dorian Gray that the true nature of the senses had never been understood, and that they had remained savage and animal merely because the world had sought to starve them into submission or to kill them by pain, instead of aiming at making them elements of a new spirituality, of which a fine instinct for beauty was to be the dominant characteristic. As he looked back upon man moving through History, he was haunted by a feeling of loss. So much had been surrendered! and to such little purpose! There had been mad wilful rejections, monstrous forms of self-torture and selfdenial, whose origin was fear, and whose result was a degradation infinitely more terrible than that fancied degradation from which, in their ignorance, they had sought to escape, Nature in her wonderful irony driving the anchorite out to herd with the wild animals of the desert and giving to the hermit the beasts of the field as his companions.
对感官的崇拜经常受到公正的谴责，人们对似乎比我们自己更强烈的激情和感觉感到天然的恐惧，并且我们意识到与组织程度较低的存在形式共享。但在道林·格雷看来，感官的真正本质从未被理解，它们一直保持着野蛮和动物性，仅仅是因为世界试图让它们挨饿或通过痛苦杀死它们，而不是想让它们屈服。一种新的灵性的元素，其中对美的良好本能是主要特征。当他回顾人类走过的历史时，他感到一种失落感。已经放弃了这么多！却为了这么一点点的目的！曾经有过疯狂的、故意的拒绝、可怕的自我折磨和自我否定，其根源是恐惧，其结果是一种比他们无知地试图逃避的想象中的堕落更可怕的堕落，大自然在她的体内。奇妙的讽刺是，隐士被赶出沙漠去放牧野生动物，而隐士却把田野里的野兽当作他的伙伴。

Yes, there was to be, as Lord Henry had prophesied, a new hedonism that was to re-create life, and to save it from that harsh, uncomely puritanism that is having, in our own day, its curious revival. It was to have its service of the intellect, certainly; yet it was never to accept any theory or system that would involve the sacrifice of any mode of passionate experience. Its aim, indeed, was to be experience itself, and not the fruits of experience, sweet or bitter as they might be. Of the asceticism that deadens the senses, as of the vulgar profligacy that dulls them, it was to know nothing. But it was to teach man to concentrate himself upon the moments of a life that is itself but a moment.
是的，正如亨利勋爵所预言的那样，将会出现一种新的享乐主义，这种享乐主义旨在重新创造生活，并将其从严酷、丑陋的清教主义中拯救出来，而这种清教主义在我们这个时代正在奇怪地复兴。当然，它是为智力服务的。但绝不接受任何需要牺牲任何形式的激情体验的理论或体系。事实上，它的目的是成为经验本身，而不是经验的果实，无论它们是甜的还是苦的。禁欲主义使人麻木，庸俗的挥霍使人迟钝，那就是一无所知。但它是为了教导人们将注意力集中在生命的瞬间，而生命本身也只是一个瞬间。

There are few of us who have not sometimes wakened before dawn, either after one of those dreamless nights that make one almost enamoured of death, or one of those nights of horror and misshapen joy, when through the chambers of the brain sweep phantoms more terrible than reality itself, and instinct with that vivid life that lurks in all grotesques, and that lends to Gothic art its enduring vitality, this art being, one might fancy, especially the art of those whose minds have been troubled with the malady of revery. Gradually white fingers creep through the curtains, and they appear to tremble. Black fantastic shadows crawl into the corners of the room, and crouch there. Outside, there is the stirring of birds among the leaves, or the sound of men going forth to their work, or the sigh and sob of the wind coming down from the hills, and wandering round the silent house, as though it feared to wake the sleepers. Veil after veil of thin dusky gauze is lifted, and by degrees the forms and colors of things are restored to them, and we watch the dawn remaking the world in its antique pattern. The wan mirrors get back their mimic life. The flameless tapers stand where we have left them, and beside them lies the half-read book that we had been studying, or the wired flower that we had worn at the ball, or the letter that we had been afraid to read, or that we had read too often. Nothing seems to us changed. Out of the unreal shadows of the night comes back the real life that we had known. We have to resume it where we had left off, and there steals over us a terrible sense of the necessity for the continuance of energy in the same wearisome round of stereotyped habits, or a wild longing, it may be, that our eyelids might open some morning upon a world that had been re-fashioned anew for our pleasure in the darkness, a world in which things would have fresh shapes and colors, and be changed, or have other secrets, a world in which the past would have little or no place, or survive, at any rate, in no conscious form of obligation or regret, the remembrance even of joy having its bitterness, and the memories of pleasure their pain.
我们中很少有人不曾在黎明前醒来，要么是在那些让人几乎迷恋死亡的无梦之夜之后，要么是在那些恐怖和畸形的欢乐之夜之后，当大脑的各个房间中扫过更可怕的幻影时比现实本身，以及潜藏在所有怪诞中的生动生活的本能，赋予哥特式艺术持久的生命力，人们可能会想象这种艺术，尤其是那些心灵受到白日病困扰的人的艺术。渐渐地，白色的手指从窗帘里爬了出来，而且似乎在颤抖。黑色梦幻般的影子爬进房间的角落，蹲在那里。外面，有树叶间鸟儿的叫声，或者是人们出去干活的声音，或者是从山上吹下来的风的叹息和抽泣，在寂静的房子周围徘徊，仿佛它害怕被吵醒。沉睡者。一层又一层薄薄的暗色薄纱被揭开，事物的形状和颜色逐渐恢复，我们看着黎明以古老的模式重塑世界。苍白的镜子恢复了它们的模仿生活。没有火焰的蜡烛立在我们离开的地方，旁边放着我们一直在研究的读了一半的书，或者我们在舞会上戴过的金属花，或者我们一直不敢读的信，或者那封信。我们读得太频繁了。在我们看来，一切都没有改变。从夜晚虚幻的阴影中，我们所熟悉的现实生活又回来了。 我们必须从上次中断的地方重新开始，我们心里突然有一种可怕的感觉，一种必须在同样令人厌烦的刻板习惯中继续保持精力的可怕感觉，或者可能是一种疯狂的渴望，希望我们的眼皮能够睁开。某个早晨，我们来到了一个为了我们在黑暗中的快乐而重新塑造的世界，在这个世界中，事物将拥有新鲜的形状和颜色，并且会发生变化，或者拥有其他秘密，在这个世界中，过去将几乎没有或没有什么。无论如何，没有任何地方或存在，没有任何有意识的义务或遗憾，甚至快乐的记忆也有苦涩，快乐的记忆也有痛苦。

It was the creation of such worlds as these that seemed to Dorian Gray to be the true object, or among the true objects, of life; and in his search for sensations that would be at once new and delightful, and possess that element of strangeness that is so essential to romance, he would often adopt certain modes of thought that he knew to be really alien to his nature, abandon himself to their subtle influences, and then, having, as it were, caught their color and satisfied his intellectual curiosity, leave them with that curious indifference that is not incompatible with a real ardor of temperament, and that indeed, according to certain modern psychologists, is often a condition of it.
在道林·格雷看来，正是这些世界的创造才是生命的真正对象，或者说是生命的真正对象之一。在他寻找既新颖又令人愉悦的感觉并拥有浪漫所必需的陌生元素的过程中，他常常会采用某些他知道与他的本性格格不入的思维方式，让自己沉浸在浪漫的氛围中。他们微妙的影响，然后，可以说，抓住了他们的色彩并满足了他的求知欲，给他们留下了那种好奇的冷漠，这种冷漠与真正的热情气质并不矛盾，而且根据某些现代心理学家的说法，这种冷漠确实是往往是它的一个条件。

It was rumored of him once that he was about to join the Roman Catholic communion; and certainly the Roman ritual had always a great attraction for him. The daily sacrifice, more awful really than all the sacrifices of the antique world, stirred him as much by its superb rejection of the evidence of the senses as by the primitive simplicity of its elements and the eternal pathos of the human tragedy that it sought to symbolize. He loved to kneel down on the cold marble pavement, and with the priest, in his stiff flowered cope, slowly and with white hands moving aside the veil of the tabernacle, and raising aloft the jewelled lantern-shaped monstrance with that pallid wafer that at times, one would fain think, is indeed the ‘panis caelestis,’ the bread of angels, or, robed in the garments of the Passion of Christ, breaking the Host into the chalice, and smiting his breast for his sins. The fuming censers, that the grave boys, in their lace and scarlet, tossed into the air like great gilt flowers, had their subtle fascination for him. As he passed out, he used to look with wonder at the black confessionals, and long to sit in the dim shadow of one of them and listen to men and women whispering through the tarnished grating the true story of their lives.
曾经有传言说他即将加入罗马天主教会。当然，罗马仪式对他始终有着巨大的吸引力。日常的牺牲，确实比古代世界的所有牺牲更可怕，它对感官证据的极力拒绝，以及它的元素的原始简单性和它所寻求的人类悲剧的永恒悲情，都让他激动不已。象征。他喜欢跪在冰冷的大理石路面上，和穿着僵硬的花罩袍的神父一起，用苍白的双手慢慢地移开圣体圣堂的面纱，高高举起镶有珠宝的灯笼形圣体圣体，圣体圣体上挂着那张苍白的薄饼。人们很容易想到，这确实是“panis caelestis”，即天使的面包，或者说，披着基督受难的外衣，将圣体打碎到圣杯中，并为自己的罪孽捶胸顿足。那些穿着蕾丝和猩红色的严肃男孩像巨大的镀金花朵一样将冒烟的香炉抛向空中，对他有着微妙的迷恋。当他昏倒时，他常常惊奇地看着黑色的忏悔室，渴望坐在其中一间昏暗的阴影下，听男男女女透过失去光泽的格栅低声讲述他们生活的真实故事。

But he never fell into the error of arresting his intellectual development by any formal acceptance of creed or system, or of mistaking, for a house in which to live, an inn that is but suitable for the sojourn of a night, or for a few hours of a night in which there are no stars and the moon is in travail. Mysticism, with its marvellous power of making common things strange to us, and the subtle antinomianism that always seems to accompany it, moved him for a season; and for a season he inclined to the materialistic doctrines of the Darwinismus movement in Germany, and found a curious pleasure in tracing the thoughts and passions of men to some pearly cell in the brain, or some white nerve in the body, delighting in the conception of the absolute dependence of the spirit on certain physical conditions, morbid or healthy, normal or diseased. Yet, as has been said of him before, no theory of life seemed to him to be of any importance compared with life itself. He felt keenly conscious of how barren all intellectual speculation is when separated from action and experiment. He knew that the senses, no less than the soul, have their mysteries to reveal.
但他从来没有犯过这样的错误，即因正式接受信条或制度而阻碍自己的智力发展，也没有错误地认为是一所可以居住的房子，一家只适合逗留一晚或几个人的旅馆。夜晚的几个小时没有星星，月亮也处于痛苦之中。神秘主义以其神奇的力量使普通的事物对我们来说变得陌生，以及似乎总是与之相伴的微妙的反律法主义，让他感动了一段时间。有一段时间，他倾向于德国达尔文主义运动的唯物主义学说，并在将人类的思想和激情追溯到大脑中的某些珍珠细胞或身体中的某些白色神经中找到了一种奇怪的乐趣，并为这种观念而高兴。精神对某些身体状况的绝对依赖，无论是病态的还是健康的，正常的还是患病的。然而，正如以前对他所说的那样，在他看来，与生命本身相比，任何生命理论都不重要。他敏锐地意识到，如果脱离了行动和实验，所有的智力推测都是多么贫瘠。他知道感官和灵魂一样，都有其奥秘有待揭示。

And so he would now study perfumes, and the secrets of their manufacture, distilling heavily-scented oils, and burning odorous gums from the East. He saw that there was no mood of the mind that had not its counterpart in the sensuous life, and set himself to discover their true relations, wondering what there was in frankincense that made one mystical, and in ambergris that stirred one’s passions, and in violets that woke the memory of dead romances, and in musk that troubled the brain, and in champak that stained the imagination; and seeking often to elaborate a real psychology of perfumes, and to estimate the several influences of sweet-smelling roots, and scented pollen-laden flowers, of aromatic balms, and of dark and fragrant woods, of spikenard that sickens, of hovenia that makes men mad, and of aloes that are said to be able to expel melancholy from the soul.
因此，他现在要研究香水及其制造秘密，蒸馏浓香油，燃烧来自东方的有气味的树胶。他发现，所有的心灵情绪都在感性生活中找到了对应物，并开始探索它们之间的真正关系，想知道乳香中到底有什么东西可以使人变得神秘，龙涎香中到底有什么东西可以激起人的激情，而在紫罗兰唤醒了逝去的浪漫记忆，麝香扰乱了大脑，香帕克玷污了想象力；并经常寻求详细阐述香水的真实心理学，并估计芳香根、充满花粉的芳香花朵、芳香香膏、深色芳香木材、令人恶心的甘松、使人感到恶心的枳椇子的几种影响。男人疯了，还有据说可以驱除灵魂忧郁的沉香。

At another time he devoted himself entirely to music, and in a long latticed room, with a vermilion-and-gold ceiling and walls of olivegreen lacquer, he used to give curious concerts in which mad gypsies tore wild music from little zithers, or grave yellow-shawled Tunisians plucked at the strained strings of monstrous lutes, while grinning negroes beat monotonously upon copper drums, or turbaned Indians, crouching upon scarlet mats, blew through long pipes of reed or brass, and charmed, or feigned to charm, great hooded snakes and horrible horned adders. The harsh intervals and shrill discords of barbaric music stirred him at times when Schubert’s grace, and Chopin’s beautiful sorrows, and the mighty harmonies of Beethoven himself, fell unheeded on his ear. He collected together from all parts of the world the strangest instruments that could be found, either in the tombs of dead nations or among the few savage tribes that have survived contact with Western civilizations, and loved to touch and try them. He had the mysterious juruparis of the Rio Negro Indians, that women are not allowed to look at, and that even youths may not see till they have been subjected to fasting and scourging, and the earthen jars of the Peruvians that have the shrill cries of birds, and flutes of human bones such as Alfonso de Ovalle heard in Chili, and the sonorous green stones that are found near Cuzco and give forth a note of singular sweetness. He had painted gourds filled with pebbles that rattled when they were shaken; the long clarin of the Mexicans, into which the performer does not blow, but through which he inhales the air; the harsh turé of the Amazon tribes, that is sounded by the sentinels who sit all day long in trees, and that can be heard, it is said, at a distance of three leagues; the teponaztli, that has two vibrating tongues of wood, and is beaten with sticks that are smeared with an elastic gum obtained from the milky juice of plants; the yotl-bells of the Aztecs, that are hung in clusters like grapes; and a huge cylindrical drum, covered with the skins of great serpents, like the one that Bernal Diaz saw when he went with Cortes into the Mexican temple, and of whose doleful sound he has left us so vivid a description. The fantastic character of these instruments fascinated him, and he felt a curious delight in the thought that Art, like Nature, has her monsters, things of bestial shape and with hideous voices. Yet, after some time, he wearied of them, and would sit in his box at the Opera, either alone or with Lord Henry, listening in rapt pleasure to ‘Tannhäuser,’ and seeing in that great work of art a presentation of the tragedy of his own soul.
另一次，他全身心投入到音乐中，在一间长长的格子房间里，天花板是朱红色和金色的，墙壁是橄榄绿漆的，他常常举办奇怪的音乐会，疯狂的吉普赛人从小古筝或坟墓中撕碎狂野的音乐。披着黄披肩的突尼斯人拨动着巨大的鲁特琴拉紧的琴弦，而咧着嘴笑的黑人单调地敲着铜鼓，或者戴着头巾的印第安人蹲在猩红色的垫子上，吹过长长的芦苇管或黄铜管，或假装着迷惑，戴着大兜帽。蛇和可怕的角蛇。当舒伯特的优雅、肖邦的美丽悲伤以及贝多芬本人的强大和声落在他耳边时，野蛮音乐中刺耳的音程和尖锐的不和声有时会激起他的兴趣。他从世界各地收集了可以找到的最奇怪的乐器，无论是在死去国家的坟墓中，还是在与西方文明接触后幸存下来的少数野蛮部落中，他喜欢触摸和尝试它们。他有里奥内格罗印第安人的神秘的juruparis，女人不准看，甚至年轻人也必须经过禁食和鞭打才能看到，还有秘鲁人的瓦罐，里面发出尖锐的叫声。鸟儿的声音，阿方索·德·奥瓦列在辣椒中听到的人骨笛子，以及库斯科附近发现的铿锵有力的绿色石头，发出一种奇异的甜味。 他画过装满鹅卵石的葫芦，摇晃时会发出嘎嘎声。墨西哥人的长笛，演奏者并不向其中吹气，而是通过它吸入空气；亚马逊部落的刺耳的声音是由整天坐在树上的哨兵发出的，据说在三里格的距离外就能听到。 teponaztli，有两个振动的木舌，用棍子敲打，棍子上涂有从植物乳汁中提取的弹性胶质；阿兹特克人的约特尔铃铛，像葡萄一样成串地悬挂着；还有一个巨大的圆柱形鼓，上面覆盖着巨蛇的皮，就像伯纳尔·迪亚兹和科尔特斯进入墨西哥神庙时看到的那个鼓一样，他为我们留下了如此生动的描述，描述了鼓的悲惨声音。这些乐器的奇妙特性让他着迷，想到艺术就像自然一样，也有怪物，有着野兽般的形状和可怕的声音，他感到一种奇怪的喜悦。然而，过了一段时间，他厌倦了它们，并会独自或与亨利勋爵一起坐在歌剧院的包厢里，全神贯注地聆听“唐豪瑟”，并在这部伟大的艺术作品中看到悲剧的呈现他自己的灵魂。

On another occasion he took up the study of jewels, and appeared at a costume ball as Anne de Joyeuse, Admiral of France, in a dress covered with five hundred and sixty pearls. He would often spend a whole day settling and resettling in their cases the various stones that he had collected, such as the olive-green chrysoberyl that turns red by lamplight, the cymophane with its wire-like line of silver, the pistachio-colored peridot, rose-pink and wine-yellow topazes, carbuncles of fiery scarlet with tremulous four-rayed stars, flamered cinnamon-stones, orange and violet spinels, and amethysts with their alternate layers of ruby and sapphire. He loved the red gold of the sunstone, and the moonstone’s pearly whiteness, and the broken rainbow of the milky opal. He procured from Amsterdam three emeralds of extraordinary size and richness of color, and had a turquoise de la vieille roche that was the envy of all the connoisseurs.
还有一次，他开始研究珠宝，并以法国海军上将安妮·德·茹瓦斯 (Anne de Joyeuse) 的身份出现在一场化装舞会上，身着一件镶有五百六十颗珍珠的礼服。他经常花一整天的时间，将他收集的各种宝石摆放在箱子里，比如在灯光下会变成红色的橄榄绿金绿宝石、带有银丝线的赛莫芬石、开心果色的橄榄石。 、玫瑰粉色和酒黄色托帕石、带有颤动四射星光的火红色红宝石、火红肉桂石、橙色和紫色尖晶石以及交替层红宝石和蓝宝石的紫水晶。他喜欢红金色的日光石、月光石的珍珠白，以及乳白色蛋白石的碎彩虹。他从阿姆斯特丹采购了三颗尺寸非凡、色彩丰富的祖母绿，其中一颗让所有鉴赏家羡慕不已的老绿松石。

He discovered wonderful stories, also, about jewels. In Alphonso’s ‘Clericalis Disciplina’ a serpent was mentioned with eyes of real jacinth, and in the romantic history of Alexander he was said to have found snakes in the vale of Jordan ‘with collars of real emeralds growing on their backs.’ There was a gem in the brain of the dragon, Philostratus told us, and ‘by the exhibition of golden letters and a scarlet robe’ the monster could be thrown into a magical sleep, and slain. According to the great alchemist Pierre de Boniface, the diamond rendered a man invisible, and the agate of India made him eloquent. The cornelian appeased anger, and the hyacinth provoked sleep, and the amethyst drove away the fumes of wine. The garnet cast out demons, and the hydropicus deprived the moon of her color. The selenite waxed and waned with the moon, and the meloceus, that discovers thieves, could be affected only by the blood of kids. Leonardus Camillus had seen a white stone taken from the brain of a newly-killed toad, that was a certain antidote against poison. The bezoar, that was found in the heart of the Arabian deer, was a charm that could cure the plague. In the nests of Arabian birds was the aspilates, that, according to Democritus, kept the wearer from any danger by fire.
他还发现了有关珠宝的精彩故事。在阿方索的《Clericalis Disciplina》中，提到了一条有着真正的紫红色眼睛的蛇，而在亚历山大的浪漫史中，据说他在约旦河谷发现了蛇，“它们的背上长着真正的祖母绿项圈。”菲洛斯特拉图斯告诉我们，龙脑中存在宝石，“通过展示金色字母和猩红色长袍”，可以使怪物陷入神奇的睡眠并被杀死。根据伟大炼金术士皮埃尔·德博尼法斯的说法，钻石使人隐形，印度玛瑙使人雄辩。红玉髓平息愤怒，风信子催眠，紫水晶驱散酒气。石榴石可以驱逐恶魔，而水草则剥夺了月亮的颜色。亚硒酸盐随着月亮的变化而盛衰，而发现小偷的梅洛塞斯只能受到孩子们的血液的影响。莱昂纳多·卡米卢斯曾见过从刚杀死的蟾蜍脑中取出的一块白色石头，那是某种解毒剂。在阿拉伯鹿的心脏中发现的牛黄是一种可以治愈瘟疫的符咒。根据德谟克利特的说法，阿拉伯鸟的巢中有吸气物，可以使佩戴者免受火灾的危险。

The King of Ceilan rode through his city with a large ruby in his hand, as the ceremony of his coronation. The gates of the palace of John the Priest were ‘made of sardius, with the horn of the horned snake inwrought, so that no man might bring poison within.’ Over the gable were ‘two golden apples, in which were two carbuncles,’ so that the gold might shine by day, and the carbuncles by night. In Lodge’s strange romance ‘A Margarite of America’ it was stated that in the chamber of Margarite were seen ‘all the chaste ladies of the world, inchased out of silver, looking through fair mirrours of chrysolites, carbuncles, sapphires, and greene emeraults.’ Marco Polo had watched the inhabitants of Zipangu place a rose-colored pearl in the mouth of the dead. A sea-monster had been enamoured of the pearl that the diver brought to King Perozes, and had slain the thief, and mourned for seven moons over his loss. When the Huns lured the king into the great pit, he flung it away,— Procopius tells the story,—nor was it ever found again, though the Emperor Anastasius offered five hundred-weight of gold pieces for it. The King of Malabar had shown a Venetian a rosary of one hundred and four pearls, one for every god that he worshipped.
塞兰国王手持一颗大红宝石骑马穿过他的城市，作为他的加冕仪式。牧师约翰宫殿的大门“是用红宝石制成的，上面绣有角蛇的角，这样就不会有人把毒药带进去。”山墙上有“两个金苹果，里面有两个红宝石”，使金子白天发光，红宝石晚上发光。洛奇的奇特浪漫小说《美国的玛格丽特》中写道，在玛格丽特的房间里，可以看到“世界上所有贞洁的女士，用银雕刻而成，透过贵橄榄石、红宝石、蓝宝石和绿宝石的美丽镜子观看。”马可·波罗曾亲眼目睹兹潘古的居民将一颗玫瑰色的珍珠放入死者的嘴里。一只海怪迷恋潜水员带给佩罗兹国王的珍珠，杀死了小偷，并为他的损失哀悼了七个月。当匈奴人把国王引诱到大坑里时，他把它扔掉了——普罗科皮乌斯讲述了这个故事——尽管阿纳斯塔修斯皇帝出价五百重金币买下它，但它再也没有被发现。马拉巴尔国王向一位威尼斯人展示了一串由一百零四颗珍珠组成的念珠，一颗代表他所崇拜的每一位神。

When the Duke de Valentinois, son of Alexander VI., visited Louis XII. of France, his horse was loaded with gold leaves, according to Brantôme, and his cap had double rows of rubies that threw out a great light. Charles of England had ridden in stirrups hung with three hundred and twenty-one diamonds. Richard II. had a coat, valued at thirty thousand marks, which was covered with balas rubies. Hall described Henry VIII., on his way to the Tower previous to his coronation, as wearing ‘a jacket of raised gold, the placard embroidered with diamonds and other rich stones, and a great bauderike about his neck of large balasses.’ The favorites of James I. wore ear-rings of emeralds set in gold filigrane. Edward II. gave to Piers Gaveston a suit of red-gold armor studded with jacinths, and a collar of gold roses set with turquoise-stones, and a skull-cap parsemé with pearls. Henry II. wore jewelled gloves reaching to the elbow, and had a hawk-glove set with twelve rubies and fifty-two great pearls. The ducal hat of Charles the Rash, the last Duke of Burgundy of his race, was studded with sapphires and hung with pearshaped pearls.
当亚历山大六世之子瓦伦蒂诺公爵拜访路易十二时。根据布朗托姆的说法，他的马背上挂满了金叶，他的帽子上镶嵌着两排红宝石，发出耀眼的光芒。英国的查理骑着挂有三百二十一颗钻石的马镫。理查二世.有一件价值三万马克的外套，上面镶满了巴拉斯红宝石。霍尔描述亨利八世在加冕前前往伦敦塔的路上，穿着“一件凸起的金色夹克，标语牌上绣着钻石和其他丰富的宝石，脖子上挂着一条巨大的巴拉斯项链。”詹姆斯一世 (James I.) 佩戴镶有金丝的祖母绿耳环。爱德华二世。送给皮尔斯·加维斯顿一套镶满紫红色的红金盔甲、镶嵌绿松石的金玫瑰项圈和镶有珍珠的无边便帽。亨利二世。戴着宝石手套，手套长及肘部，还有一只镶有十二颗红宝石和五十二颗大珍珠的鹰手套。最后一位勃艮第公爵，鲁莽的查尔斯的公爵帽上镶嵌着蓝宝石，并悬挂着梨形珍珠。

How exquisite life had once been! How gorgeous in its pomp and decoration! Even to read of the luxury of the dead was wonderful.
曾经的生活是多么美好啊！其盛况和装饰多么华丽！即使是读到死者的奢华也是美妙的。

Then he turned his attention to embroideries, and to the tapestries that performed the office of frescos in the chill rooms of the Northern nations of Europe. As he investigated the subject,—and he always had an extraordinary faculty of becoming absolutely absorbed for the moment in whatever he took up,—he was almost saddened by the reflection of the ruin that time brought on beautiful and wonderful things. He, at any rate, had escaped that. Summer followed summer, and the yellow jonquils bloomed and died many times, and nights of horror repeated the story of their shame, but he was unchanged. No winter marred his face or stained his flower-like bloom. How different it was with material things! Where had they gone to? Where was the great crocus-colored robe, on which the gods fought against the giants, that had been worked for Athena? Where the huge velarium that Nero had stretched across the Colosseum at Rome, on which were represented the starry sky, and Apollo driving a chariot drawn by white gilt-reined steeds? He longed to see the curious table-napkins wrought for Elagabalus, on which were displayed all the dainties and viands that could be wanted for a feast; the mortuary cloth of King Chilperic, with its three hundred golden bees; the fantastic robes that excited the indignation of the Bishop of Pontus, and were figured with ‘lions, panthers, bears, dogs, forests, rocks, hunters,—all, in fact, that a painter can copy from nature;’ and the coat that Charles of Orleans once wore, on the sleeves of which were embroidered the verses of a song beginning ‘Madame, je suis tout joyeux,’ the musical accompaniment of the words being wrought in gold thread, and each note, a square shape in those days, formed with four pearls. He read of the room that was prepared at the palace at Rheims for the use of Queen Joan of Burgundy, and was decorated with ‘thirteen hundred and twenty-one parrots, made in broidery, and blazoned with the king’s arms, and five hundred and sixty-one butterflies, whose wings were similarly ornamented with the arms of the queen, the whole worked in gold.’ Catherine de Médicis had a mourning-bed made for her of black velvet powdered with crescents and suns. Its curtains were of damask, with leafy wreaths and garlands, figured upon a gold and silver ground, and fringed along the edges with broideries of pearls, and it stood in a room hung with rows of the queen’s devices in cut black velvet upon cloth of silver. Louis XIV. had gold-embroidered caryatides fifteen feet high in his apartment. The state bed of Sobieski, King of Poland, was made of Smyrna gold brocade embroidered in turquoises with verses from the Koran. Its supports were of silver gilt, beautifully chased, and profusely set with enamelled and jewelled medallions. It had been taken from the Turkish camp before Vienna, and the standard of Mohammed had stood under it.
然后，他将注意力转向刺绣和挂毯，这些挂毯在欧洲北部国家的寒冷房间中扮演着壁画的角色。当他研究这个主题时——他总是有一种非凡的能力，能够在当下完全专注于他所从事的任何事情——他几乎为时间给美丽而奇妙的事物带来的毁灭的反映感到悲伤。无论如何，他逃过了这一劫。夏天接着夏天，黄色的水仙花多次开花又枯死，恐怖的夜晚重复着它们的耻辱故事，但他却没有改变。冬天没有损害他的面容，也没有玷污他如花般的花朵。物质事物是多么不同啊！他们去哪儿了？众神与巨人作战时为雅典娜制作的藏红花色长袍在哪里？尼禄在罗马斗兽场上铺设的巨大天幕在哪里，上面代表着星空，阿波罗驾驶着白色镀金战马牵引的战车？他渴望看到为埃拉伽巴卢斯制作的奇特餐巾，上面展示着宴会所需的所有美味佳肴；奇尔佩里克国王的殡葬布，上面有三百只金蜜蜂；激起了本都主教的愤慨的奇异长袍，上面画着“狮子、黑豹、熊、狗、森林、岩石、猎人——事实上，所有这些都是画家可以从大自然中临摹的；”还有那件外套奥尔良的查理曾经穿过的那件衣服，袖子上绣着一首歌曲的诗句，开头是“夫人，我是你的快乐”，这些歌词的音乐伴奏是用金线编织的，每个音符都是一个方形的形状。天，由四颗珍珠组成。 他读到兰斯宫殿为勃艮第琼女王准备的房间，里面装饰着“一千三百二十一只鹦鹉，用刺绣制成，上面有国王的徽章，还有五百只鹦鹉”。六十一只蝴蝶，翅膀上同样装饰着女王的手臂，整个都是金子做的。”凯瑟琳·德·梅迪西斯用黑色天鹅绒为她制作了一张丧床，上面撒满了新月和太阳。它的窗帘是锦缎的，上面有绿叶花环和花环，在金色和银色的底色上有图案，边缘镶有珍珠刺绣。它坐落在一个房间里，房间里挂着一排排女王的装置，用黑色天鹅绒制成的布料制成。银。路易十四。他的公寓里有十五英尺高的金绣女像柱。波兰国王索别斯基的国床由士麦那金锦缎制成，上面绣有绿松石，上面绣有《古兰经》的诗句。它的支架是镀银的，雕琢得很漂亮，上面镶嵌着大量的珐琅和宝石徽章。它是从维也纳之前的土耳其军营中被拿走的，穆罕默德的旗帜矗立在它的下面。

And so, for a whole year, he sought to accumulate the most exquisite specimens that he could find of textile and embroidered work, getting the dainty Delhi muslins, finely wrought, with gold-threat palmates, and stitched over with iridescent beetles’ wings; the Dacca gauzes, that from their transparency are known in the East as ‘woven air,’ and ‘running water,’ and ‘evening dew;’ strange figured cloths from Java; elaborate yellow Chinese hangings; books bound in tawny satins or fair blue silks and wrought with fleurs de lys, birds, and images; veils of lacis worked in Hungary point; Sicilian brocades, and stiff Spanish velvets; Georgian work with its gilt coins, and Japanese Foukousas with their green-toned golds and their marvellouslyplumaged birds.
因此，整整一年，他都在努力收集他能找到的最精美的纺织和刺绣作品样本，得到了精美的德里平纹细布，经过精心制作，上面有金威胁的手掌，并缝上了虹彩甲虫的翅膀；达卡纱布，由于其透明度，在东方被称为“编织的空气”、“流水”和“晚露”；来自爪哇的奇怪图案的布；精致的黄色中式帷幔；用黄褐色缎子或浅蓝色丝绸装订的书籍，上面饰有百合花、鸟类和图像；拉西斯的面纱在匈牙利点起作用；西西里锦缎和硬挺的西班牙天鹅绒；格鲁吉亚的金币，日本的福库萨斯的绿色金币和羽毛精美的鸟类。

He had a special passion, also, for ecclesiastical vestments, as indeed he had for everything connected with the service of the Church. In the long cedar chests that lined the west gallery of his house he had stored away many rare and beautiful specimens of what is really the raiment of the Bride of Christ, who must wear purple and jewels and fine linen that she may hide the pallid macerated body that is worn by the suffering that she seeks for, and wounded by self-inflicted pain. He had a gorgeous cope of crimson silk and gold-thread damask, figured with a repeating pattern of golden pomegranates set in six-petalled formal blossoms, beyond which on either side was the pine-apple device wrought in seed-pearls. The orphreys were divided into panels representing scenes from the life of the Virgin, and the coronation of the Virgin was figured in colored silks upon the hood. This was Italian work of the fifteenth century. Another cope was of green velvet, embroidered with heartshaped groups of acanthus-leaves, from which spread long-stemmed white blossoms, the details of which were picked out with silver thread and colored crystals. The morse bore a seraph’s head in goldthread raised work. The orphreys were woven in a diaper of red and gold silk, and were starred with medallions of many saints and martyrs, among whom was St. Sebastian. He had chasubles, also, of amber-colored silk, and blue silk and gold brocade, and yellow silk damask and cloth of gold, figured with representations of the Passion and Crucifixion of Christ, and embroidered with lions and peacocks and other emblems; dalmatics of white satin and pink silk damask, decorated with tulips and dolphins and fleurs de lys; altar frontals of crimson velvet and blue linen; and many corporals, chalice-veils, and sudaria. In the mystic offices to which these things were put there was something that quickened his imagination.
他还对教会法衣有着特殊的热情，就像他对与教会服务有关的一切事物一样。在他房子西侧走廊的长雪松箱子里，他储存了许多稀有而美丽的标本，这些标本实际上是基督新娘的服装，她必须穿着紫色、珠宝和细亚麻布，以便隐藏苍白的浸渍物。她的身体因她所寻求的痛苦而疲惫不堪，并因自己造成的痛苦而受伤。他有一件华丽的深红色丝绸和金线锦缎外套，上面有重复的金色石榴图案，镶嵌在六瓣正式花朵中，两侧是用种子珍珠制成的菠萝图案。奥弗莱被分成代表圣母玛利亚生活场景的面板，圣母加冕仪式则用彩色丝绸描绘在兜帽上。这是十五世纪意大利的作品。另一件外套是绿色天鹅绒制成的，上面绣着心形的茛苕树叶群，上面开着长茎的白色花朵，花朵的细节是用银线和彩色水晶挑选出来的。莫尔斯有一个六翼天使的头，上面有金线凸纹。奥弗莱是用红色和金色丝绸制成的尿布编织而成，上面饰有许多圣徒和烈士的奖章，其中包括圣塞巴斯蒂安。 他还有琥珀色丝绸、蓝色丝绸和金色锦缎、黄色丝绸锦缎和金色布料制成的祭服，图案上有基督受难和受难的图案，并绣有狮子、孔雀和其他标志。白色缎子和粉色丝绸锦缎制成的达尔马提亚，饰有郁金香、海豚和百合花；祭坛正面是深红色天鹅绒和蓝色亚麻布；还有许多下士、圣杯面纱和苏达里亚。在放置这些东西的神秘办公室里，有一些东西激发了他的想象力。

For these things, and everything that he collected in his lovely house, were to be to him means of forgetfulness, modes by which he could escape, for a season, from the fear that seemed to him at times to be almost too great to be borne. Upon the walls of the lonely locked room where he had spent so much of his boyhood, he had hung with his own hands the terrible portrait whose changing features showed him the real degradation of his life, and had draped the purple-and-gold pall in front of it as a curtain. For weeks he would not go there, would forget the hideous painted thing, and get back his light heart, his wonderful joyousness, his passionate pleasure in mere existence. Then, suddenly, some night he would creep out of the house, go down to dreadful places near Blue Gate Fields, and stay there, day after day, until he was driven away. On his return he would sit in front of the picture, sometimes loathing it and himself, but filled, at other times, with that pride of rebellion that is half the fascination of sin, and smiling, with secret pleasure, at the misshapen shadow that had to bear the burden that should have been his own.
因为这些东西，以及他在可爱的房子里收集的所有东西，对他来说都是遗忘的手段，是他可以暂时逃避恐惧的方式，这种恐惧有时对他来说几乎是太严重了，无法忘记。承担。在他度过了大部分童年时光的孤独、上锁的房间的墙壁上，他亲手挂上了一幅可怕的肖像，其不断变化的面容向他展示了他生活中真正的堕落，并为他披上了紫色和金色的帷幕。在它前面作为帷幕。一连好几个星期，他都不会去那里，忘记那可怕的彩画东西，找回他轻松的心，他美妙的快乐，他在纯粹存在中的热情快乐。然后，有一天晚上，他会突然溜出家门，来到蓝门原野附近可怕的地方，日复一日地呆在那里，直到被赶走。回来后，他会坐在这幅画前，有时厌恶它和他自己，但有时又充满了叛逆的骄傲，这一半是罪恶的魅力，他对着那幅畸形的影子微笑，带着秘密的快乐。不得不承担起本该属于自己的负担。

After a few years he could not endure to be long out of England, and gave up the villa that he had shared at Trouville with Lord Henry, as well as the little white walled-in house at Algiers where he had more than once spent his winter. He hated to be separated from the picture that was such a part of his life, and he was also afraid that during his absence some one might gain access to the room, in spite of the elaborate bolts and bars that he had caused to be placed upon the door.
几年后，他无法忍受离开英国太久，放弃了他在特鲁维尔与亨利勋爵合住的别墅，以及阿尔及尔的白色围墙小房子，他不止一次在那里度过了他的一生。冬天。他讨厌与他生活中的那幅画分开，他也担心在他不在的时候有人可能会进入这个房间，尽管他已经布置了精心设计的螺栓和栏杆。在门上。

He was quite conscious that this would tell them nothing. It was true that the portrait still preserved, under all the foulness and ugliness of the face, its marked likeness to himself; but what could they learn from that? He would laugh at any one who tried to taunt him. He had not painted it. What was it to him how vile and full of shame it looked? Even if he told them, would they believe it?
他很清楚这不会告诉他们任何信息。确实，尽管脸庞肮脏丑陋，这幅肖像仍然保留着与他本人明显的相似之处。但他们能从中学到什么？他会嘲笑任何试图嘲笑他的人。他没有画它。看起来如此卑鄙和充满耻辱，对他来说有什么意义？就算他告诉他们，他们会相信吗？

Yet he was afraid. Sometimes when he was down at his great house in Nottinghamshire, entertaining the fashionable young men of his own rank who were his chief companions, and astounding the county by the wanton luxury and gorgeous splendor of his mode of life, he would suddenly leave his guests and rush back to town to see that the door had not been tampered with and that the picture was still there. What if it should be stolen? The mere thought made him cold with horror. Surely the world would know his secret then. Perhaps the world already suspected it.
但他还是害怕。有时，当他在诺丁汉郡的大宅里，招待他的主要同伴、与他同级的时尚年轻人，并以其肆意的奢华和华丽的生活方式震惊整个郡时，他会突然离开他的客人然后赶回城里看看门没有被动过，照片还在那里。如果它被偷了怎么办？光是这个念头就让他惊恐得浑身发冷。那时全世界肯定都会知道他的秘密。也许全世界都已经怀疑了。

For, while he fascinated many, there were not a few who distrusted him. He was blackballed at a West End club of which his birth and social position fully entitled him to become a member, and on one occasion, when he was brought by a friend into the smoking-room of the Carlton, the Duke of Berwick and another gentleman got up in a marked manner and went out. Curious stories became current about him after he had passed his twenty-fifth year. It was said that he had been seen brawling with foreign sailors in a low den in the distant parts of Whitechapel, and that he consorted with thieves and coiners and knew the mysteries of their trade. His extraordinary absences became notorious, and, when he used to reappear again in society, men would whisper to each other in corners, or pass him with a sneer, or look at him with cold searching eyes, as if they were determined to discover his secret.
因为，虽然他让很多人着迷，但也有不少人不信任他。他在伦敦西区的一家俱乐部遭到排斥，他的出身和社会地位完全使他有资格成为该俱乐部的会员，有一次，当他被一位朋友带进卡尔顿酒店的吸烟室时，伯威克公爵和另一位先生很明显地起身走了出去。在他过了二十五岁之后，关于他的奇怪故事开始流传。据说，有人看到他在怀特查佩尔偏远地区的一个低矮巢穴中与外国水手争吵，而且他与小偷和铸币者交往，了解他们交易的奥秘。他的异常缺席变得臭名昭著，当他再次出现在社会上时，人们会在角落里窃窃私语，或者冷笑着从他身边走过，或者用冷漠的目光看着他，仿佛他们决心要发现他的秘密。秘密。

Of such insolences and attempted slights he, of course, took no notice, and in the opinion of most people his frank debonair manner, his charming boyish smile, and the infinite grace of that wonderful youth that seemed never to leave him, were in themselves a sufficient answer to the calumnies (for so they called them) that were circulated about him. It was remarked, however, that those who had been most intimate with him appeared, after a time, to shun him. Of all his friends, or so-called friends, Lord Henry Wotton was the only one who remained loyal to him. Women who had wildly adored him, and for his sake had braved all social censure and set convention at defiance, were seen to grow pallid with shame or horror if Dorian Gray entered the room.
当然，他对这种无礼和企图的轻视毫不在意，在大多数人看来，他坦率而温文尔雅的举止，他迷人的孩子气的微笑，以及那个似乎永远不会离开他的美好青春的无限优雅，都是他自己的。这是对流传于他的诽谤（他们这么称呼）的充分回应。然而，有人指出，一段时间后，那些与他最亲密的人似乎开始回避他。在他所有的朋友，或者所谓的朋友中，亨利·沃顿勋爵是唯一对他保持忠诚的人。如果道林·格雷走进房间，那些曾经疯狂崇拜他、为了他而勇敢地面对所有社会谴责、挑战传统的女性们，会因为羞愧或恐惧而脸色苍白。

Yet these whispered scandals only lent him, in the eyes of many, his strange and dangerous charm. His great wealth was a certain element of security. Society, civilized society at least, is never very ready to believe anything to the detriment of those who are both rich and charming. It feels instinctively that manners are of more importance than morals, and the highest respectability is of less value in its opinion than the possession of a good chef. And, after all, it is a very poor consolation to be told that the man who has given one a bad dinner, or poor wine, is irreproachable in his private life. Even the cardinal virtues cannot atone for cold entrées, as Lord Henry remarked once, in a discussion on the subject; and there is possibly a good deal to be said for his view. For the canons of good society are, or should be, the same as the canons of art. Form is absolutely essential to it. It should have the dignity of a ceremony, as well as its unreality, and should combine the insincere character of a romantic play with the wit and beauty that make such plays charming. Is insincerity such a terrible thing? I think not. It is merely a method by which we can multiply our personalities.
然而，在许多人看来，这些低声传出的丑闻只会给他带来奇怪而危险的魅力。他的巨额财富是某种安全感的一部分。社会，至少是文明社会，永远不会轻易相信任何损害那些既富有又迷人的人的事情。它本能地感觉到礼仪比道德更重要，在它看来，最高的尊重不如拥有一个好厨师更有价值。毕竟，如果有人告诉你，一个给别人提供了一顿糟糕的晚餐或糟糕的酒的人在他的私生活中是无可指责的，这实在是一种非常可怜的安慰。正如亨利勋爵曾经在一次有关该主题的讨论中指出的那样，即使是基本美德也无法弥补冷淡的主菜。他的观点可能有很多值得商榷的地方。因为美好社会的准则与艺术的准则是相同的，或者应该是相同的。形式对其来说绝对重要。它既要有仪式的尊严，又要有它的虚幻性，既要有浪漫戏剧的不真诚的性格，又要有使戏剧具有魅力的智慧和美丽。不真诚有这么可怕吗？我想不是。它只是我们增强个性的一种方法。

Such, at any rate, was Dorian Gray’s opinion. He used to wonder at the shallow psychology of those who conceive the Ego in man as a thing simple, permanent, reliable, and of one essence. To him, man was a being with myriad lives and myriad sensations, a complex multiform creature that bore within itself strange legacies of thought and passion, and whose very flesh was tainted with the monstrous maladies of the dead. He loved to stroll through the gaunt cold picture-gallery of his country-house and look at the various portraits of those whose blood flowed in his veins. Here was Philip Herbert, described by Francis Osborne, in his ‘Memoires on the Reigns of Queen Elizabeth and King James,’ as one who was ‘caressed by the court for his handsome face, which kept him not long company.’ Was it young Herbert’s life that he sometimes led? Had some strange poisonous germ crept from body to body till it had reached his own? Was it some dim sense of that ruined grace that had made him so suddenly, and almost without cause, give utterance, in Basil Hallward’s studio, to that mad prayer that had so changed his life? Here, in gold-embroidered red doublet, jewelled surcoat, and giltedged ruff and wrist-bands, stood Sir Anthony Sherard, with his silver-and-black armor piled at his feet. What had this man’s legacy been? Had the lover of Giovanna of Naples bequeathed him some inheritance of sin and shame? Were his own actions merely the dreams that the dead man had not dared to realize? Here, from the fading canvas, smiled Lady Elizabeth Devereux, in her gauze hood, pearl stomacher, and pink slashed sleeves. A flower was in her right hand, and her left clasped an enamelled collar of white and damask roses. On a table by her side lay a mandolin and an apple. There were large green rosettes upon her little pointed shoes. He knew her life, and the strange stories that were told about her lovers. Had he something of her temperament in him? Those oval heavy-lidded eyes seemed to look curiously at him. What of George Willoughby, with his powdered hair and fantastic patches? How evil he looked! The face was saturnine and swarthy, and the sensual lips seemed to be twisted with disdain. Delicate lace ruffles fell over the lean yellow hands that were so overladen with rings. He had been a macaroni of the eighteenth century, and the friend, in his youth, of Lord Ferrars. What of the second Lord Sherard, the companion of the Prince Regent in his wildest days, and one of the witnesses at the secret marriage with Mrs. Fitzherbert? How proud and handsome he was, with his chestnut curls and insolent pose! What passions had he bequeathed? The world had looked upon him as infamous. He had led the orgies at Carlton House. The star of the Garter glittered upon his breast. Beside him hung the portrait of his wife, a pallid, thin-lipped woman in black. Her blood, also, stirred within him. How curious it all seemed!
无论如何，这就是道林·格雷的观点。他曾经对那些将人的自我视为一种简单、永久、可靠且具有单一本质的东西的人的肤浅心理感到惊讶。对他来说，人是一种拥有无数生命和无数感觉的存在，是一种复杂多样的生物，其内部承载着思想和激情的奇怪遗产，其肉体被死者的可怕疾病所污染。他喜欢在乡间别墅那间荒凉冰冷的画廊里漫步，观看那些与他血管里流淌着鲜血的人的各种肖像。弗兰西斯·奥斯本在他的《伊丽莎白女王和詹姆斯国王的统治回忆录》中描述了菲利普·赫伯特，他“因其英俊的面容而受到宫廷的爱抚，这使他不能长久陪伴”。赫伯特有时过着怎样的生活？是否有某种奇怪的有毒细菌从一个身体爬到另一个身体，直到到达他自己的身体？是不是有一种模糊的恩典被破坏的感觉，让他如此突然地、几乎无缘无故地在巴兹尔·霍尔沃德的工作室里说出了那个改变了他生活的疯狂祈祷？安东尼·谢拉德爵士站在这里，穿着金色刺绣的红色紧身上衣、镶满宝石的外衣、镀金的领口和腕带，脚下堆放着银黑色的盔甲。这个人的遗产是什么？那不勒斯乔凡娜的情人是否给他留下了罪恶和耻辱的遗产？自己的所作所为难道只是死者不敢实现的梦想吗？在这里，在褪色的画布上，伊丽莎白·德弗罗夫人微笑着，她戴着薄纱兜帽，穿着珍珠背心，穿着粉红色的开衩袖子。她右手拿着一朵花，左手紧握着白色和锦缎玫​​瑰的珐琅项圈。她旁边的桌子上放着一把曼陀林和一个苹果。 她的小尖头鞋上有大大的绿色玫瑰花结。他了解她的生活，也了解她情人的奇怪故事。他身上有她的气质吗？那双椭圆形、厚重的眼睑似乎好奇地看着他。乔治·威洛比（George Willoughby）呢？他的头发上涂了粉，脸上还贴着漂亮的补丁？他看上去多么邪恶啊！那张脸阴沉而黝黑，性感的嘴唇似乎因不屑而扭曲。精致的蕾丝褶边落在那双瘦瘦的黄色手上，手上挂满了戒指。他是十八世纪的通心粉，年轻时是费拉斯勋爵的朋友。那么第二任谢拉德勋爵呢？他是摄政王最狂野时期的伴侣，也是与菲茨赫伯特夫人秘密结婚的证人之一？他的栗色卷发和傲慢的姿势是多么骄傲和英俊啊！他留下了什么激情？全世界都认为他臭名昭著。他领导了卡尔顿庄园的狂欢。嘉德之星在他胸前闪闪发光。他旁边挂着他妻子的肖像，一位面色苍白、嘴唇薄、身穿黑衣的女人。她的血液也在他体内搅动。这一切看起来多么令人好奇啊！

Yet one had ancestors in literature, as well as in one’s own race, nearer perhaps in type and temperament, many of them, and certainly with an influence of which one was more absolutely conscious. There were times when it seemed to Dorian Gray that the whole of history was merely the record of his own life, not as he had lived it in act and circumstance, but as his imagination had created it for him, as it had been in his brain and in his passions. He felt that he had known them all, those strange terrible figures that had passed across the stage of the world and made sin so marvellous and evil so full of wonder. It seemed to him that in some mysterious way their lives had been his own.
然而，人们在文学上以及自己的种族中都有祖先，他们中的许多人也许在类型和气质上更接近，而且肯定受到人们更绝对意识到的影响。有时，道林·格雷觉得整个历史只不过是他自己生活的记录，不是他在行动和环境中经历过的生活，而是他的想象力为他创造的历史，就像他在自己的生活中所经历的那样。大脑和他的激情。他觉得他认识他们所有人，那些奇怪而可怕的人物曾经穿过世界的舞台，使罪恶如此奇妙，使邪恶如此充满奇迹。在他看来，从某种神秘的角度来说，他们的生活就是他自己的。

The hero of the dangerous novel that had so influenced his life had himself had this curious fancy. In a chapter of the book he tells how, crowned with laurel, lest lightning might strike him, he had sat, as Tiberius, in a garden at Capri, reading the shameful books of Elephantis, while dwarfs and peacocks strutted round him and the flute-player mocked the swinger of the censer; and, as Caligula, had caroused with the green-shirted jockeys in their stables, and supped in an ivory manger with a jewel-frontleted horse; and, as Domitian, had wandered through a corridor lined with marble mirrors, looking round with haggard eyes for the reflection of the dagger that was to end his days, and sick with that ennui, that taedium vitae, that comes on those to whom life denies nothing; and had peered through a clear emerald at the red shambles of the Circus, and then, in a litter of pearl and purple drawn by silver-shod mules, been carried through the Street of Pomegranates to a House of Gold, and heard men cry on Nero Caesar as he passed by; and, as Elagabalus, had painted his face with colors, and plied the distaff among the women, and brought the Moon from Carthage, and given her in mystic marriage to the Sun.
这部对他的生活产生了巨大影响的危险小说的主人公自己也有这种奇怪的幻想。在书中的一章中，他讲述了如何戴着月桂树冠，以免闪电击中他，他以提比略的身份坐在卡普里岛的一个花园里，阅读象象的可耻书籍，而小矮人和孔雀在他和长笛周围昂首阔步。 -玩家嘲笑香炉的摇摆者；作为卡里古拉，他曾在马厩里与绿衫骑师一起狂欢，并在象牙马槽里与一匹镶着宝石的马共进晚餐。他像图密善一样，漫步穿过一条布满大理石镜子的走廊，用憔悴的眼睛环顾四周，寻找那把即将结束他生命的匕首的倒影，并厌倦了那种厌倦、那种生活的厌倦，这种感觉出现在那些生命已久的人身上。不否认任何事；透过清澈的翠绿，凝视着马戏团的红色废墟，然后，在银鞋骡子拉着的一担珍珠和紫色的轿子里，穿过石榴街，来到一座金屋，听到人们在哭泣尼禄·凯撒经过时；他像埃拉伽巴鲁斯一样，在自己的脸上涂上颜色，在妇女中穿梭，从迦太基带来了月亮，并以神秘的方式将她嫁给了太阳。

Over and over again Dorian used to read this fantastic chapter, and the chapter immediately following, in which the hero describes the curious tapestries that he had had woven for him from Gustave Moreau’s designs, and on which were pictured the awful and beautiful forms of those whom Vice and Blood and Weariness had made monstrous or mad: Filippo, Duke of Milan, who slew his wife, and painted her lips with a scarlet poison; Pietro Barbi, the Venetian, known as Paul the Second, who sought in his vanity to assume the title of Formosus, and whose tiara, valued at two hundred thousand florins, was bought at the price of a terrible sin; Gian Maria Visconti, who used hounds to chase living men, and whose murdered body was covered with roses by a harlot who had loved him; the Borgia on his white horse, with Fratricide riding beside him, and his mantle stained with the blood of Perotto; Pietro Riario, the young Cardinal Archbishop of Florence, child and minion of Sixtus IV., whose beauty was equalled only by his debauchery, and who received Leonora of Aragon in a pavilion of white and crimson silk, filled with nymphs and centaurs, and gilded a boy that he might serve her at the feast as Ganymede or Hylas; Ezzelin, whose melancholy could be cured only by the spectacle of death, and who had a passion for red blood, as other men have for red wine,—the son of the Fiend, as was reported, and one who had cheated his father at dice when gambling with him for his own soul; Giambattista Cibo, who in mockery took the name of Innocent, and into whose torpid veins the blood of three lads was infused by a Jewish doctor; Sigismondo Malatesta, the lover of Isotta, and the lord of Rimini, whose effigy was burned at Rome as the enemy of God and man, who strangled Polyssena with a napkin, and gave poison to Ginevra d’Este in a cup of emerald, and in honor of a shameful passion built a pagan church for Christian worship; Charles VI., who had so wildly adored his brother’s wife that a leper had warned him of the insanity that was coming on him, and who could only be soothed by Saracen cards painted with the images of Love and Death and Madness; and, in his trimmed jerkin and jewelled cap and acanthus-like curls, Grifonetto Baglioni, who slew Astorre with his bride, and Simonetto with his page, and whose comeliness was such that, as he lay dying in the yellow piazza of Perugia, those who had hated him could not choose but weep, and Atalanta, who had cursed him, blessed him.
多里安一遍又一遍地读着这个奇妙的章节，以及紧随其后的章节，其中英雄描述了他根据古斯塔夫·莫罗的设计为他编织的奇怪的挂毯，上面描绘了那些可怕而美丽的形式。邪恶、血腥和疲倦使他们变得可怕或疯狂：米兰公爵菲利波，他杀死了自己的妻子，并在她的嘴唇上涂上了猩红色的毒药；威尼斯人彼得罗·巴尔比（Pietro Barbi），人称保罗二世，出于虚荣心，试图获得福尔摩苏斯的头衔，他的王冠价值二十万弗罗林，是用可怕的罪孽买来的。吉安·玛丽亚·维斯康蒂（Gian Maria Visconti），他用猎犬追赶活人，他被谋杀的尸体被一个爱他的妓女用玫瑰覆盖；博吉亚骑着白马，他身边骑着兄弟相残，他的斗篷沾满了佩罗托的鲜血。彼得罗·里亚里奥（Pietro Riario），年轻的佛罗伦萨红衣主教，西克斯图斯四世的孩子和爪牙。她的美丽与他的放荡相媲美，他在白色和深红色丝绸搭建的凉亭里接待了阿拉贡的利奥诺拉，里面充满了仙女和半人马，并为一个男孩镀金，以便他可以在宴会上扮演伽尼米德或海拉斯为她服务。埃泽林的忧郁只能通过死亡的景象来治愈，他对红血有着热情，就像其他人对红酒一样，据报道，他是恶魔的儿子，也是一个欺骗了他父亲的人。与他赌自己的灵魂时掷骰子；詹巴蒂斯塔·西博（Giambattista Cibo），在嘲笑中取了“无辜”的名字，一位犹太医生将三个小伙子的血液注入了他麻木的血管中；西吉斯蒙多·马拉泰斯塔（Sigismondo Malatesta），伊索塔的情人，里米尼的领主，他的肖像在罗马被烧毁，被认为是上帝和人类的敌人，他用餐巾勒死了波利塞纳，并在一杯祖母绿中给吉内芙拉·德·埃斯特下了毒药，为了纪念可耻的激情，建造了一座异教教堂来进行基督教崇拜；查理六世如此狂热地崇拜他兄弟的妻子，以至于一位麻风病人警告他他即将陷入精神错乱，而他只能通过画有爱、死亡和疯狂图像的撒拉逊人卡片来安慰；格里福内托·巴廖尼（Grifonetto Baglioni）穿着修剪过的背心，戴着镶有宝石的帽子，留着老鼠般的卷发，他和他的新娘一起杀死了阿斯托雷，西蒙内托和他的侍从，他的英俊是这样的，当他在佩鲁贾的黄色广场上死去时，那些人曾经憎恨他的人只能哭泣，曾经诅咒过他的阿塔兰忒却祝福了他。

There was a horrible fascination in them all. He saw them at night, and they troubled his imagination in the day. The Renaissance knew of strange manners of poisoning,—poisoning by a helmet and a lighted torch, by an embroidered glove and a jewelled fan, by a gilded pomander and by an amber chain. Dorian Gray had been poisoned by a book. There were moments when he looked on evil simply as a mode through which he could realize his conception of the beautiful.
他们身上都有一种可怕的魅力。他在晚上看到了它们，而它们在白天扰乱了他的想象力。文艺复兴时期知道了奇怪的中毒方式——用头盔和点燃的火把下毒，用绣花手套和一把镶满宝石的扇子下毒，用镀金的香膏和琥珀链下毒。道林·格雷被一本书毒害了。有时候，他将邪恶仅仅视为一种实现他对美的观念的方式。

Chapter X
第十章

It was on the 7th of November, the eve of his own thirtysecond birthday, as he often remembered afterwards.
那是 11 月 7 日，他自己三十二岁生日的前夕，他后来常常记得。

He was walking home about eleven o’clock from Lord Henry’s, where he had been dining, and was wrapped in heavy furs, as the night was cold and foggy. At the corner of Grosvenor Square and South Audley Street a man passed him in the mist, walking very fast, and with the collar of his gray ulster turned up. He had a bag in his hand. He recognized him. It was Basil Hallward. A strange sense of fear, for which he could not account, came over him. He made no sign of recognition, and went on slowly, in the direction of his own house.
十一点左右，他从亨利勋爵家吃饭，步行回家，因为夜晚寒冷且多雾，他裹着厚重的毛皮。在格罗夫纳广场和南奥德利街的拐角处，一个男人在雾气中从他身边走过，走得很快，灰色羊毛衫的领子竖起来。他手里拿着一个袋子。他认出了他。这是巴兹尔·霍尔沃德。一种他无法解释的奇怪的恐惧感袭上心头。他没有做出任何认出的迹象，而是慢慢地朝自己家的方向走去。

But Hallward had seen him. Dorian heard him first stopping, and then hurrying after him. In a few moments his hand was on his arm.
但霍尔​​华德见过他。多里安听到他先是停下来，然后快步追了上去。过了一会儿，他的手就放在了手臂上。

‘Dorian! What an extraordinary piece of luck! I have been waiting for you ever since nine o’clock in your library. Finally I took pity on your tired servant, and told him to go to bed, as he let me out. I am off to Paris by the midnight train, and I wanted particularly to see you before I left. I thought it was you, or rather your fur coat, as you passed me. But I wasn’t quite sure. Didn’t you recognize me?’
‘多里安！这是多么非凡的运气啊！我从九点钟就在你的图书馆等你了。最后我可怜你疲惫不堪的仆人，让他去睡觉，然后他就把我放了出去。我要乘午夜火车去巴黎，在出发前我特别想见到你。当你经过我身边时，我以为是你，或者更确切地说是你的皮大衣。但我不太确定。你没认出我吗？

‘In this fog, my dear Basil? Why, I can’t even recognize Grosvenor Square. I believe my house is somewhere about here, but I don’t feel at all certain about it. I am sorry you are going away, as I have not seen you for ages. But I suppose you will be back soon?’
“在这浓雾中，我亲爱的巴兹尔？为什么，我什至认不出格罗夫纳广场。我相信我的房子就在这附近的某个地方，但我对此并不确定。很抱歉你要走了，因为我已经好久没有见到你了。但我想你很快就会回来吧？

‘No: I am going to be out of England for six months. I intend to take a studio in Paris, and shut myself up till I have finished a great picture I have in my head. However, it wasn’t about myself I wanted to talk. Here we are at your door. Let me come in for a moment. I have something to say to you.’
“不：我要离开英格兰六个月。我打算在巴黎开一家工作室，然后把自己关起来，直到完成我脑海中的一幅伟大的作品。然而，我想说的并不是我自己。我们就在您家门口。让我进来一会儿。我有话要对你说。

‘I shall be charmed. But won’t you miss your train?’ said Dorian Gray, languidly, as he passed up the steps and opened the door with his latch-key.
‘我会被迷住的。但你不会错过火车吗？”道林·格雷懒洋洋地说，一边走上台阶，用钥匙打开了门。

The lamp-light struggled out through the fog, and Hallward looked at his watch. ‘I have heaps of time,’ he answered. ‘The train doesn’t go till twelve-fifteen, and it is only just eleven. In fact, I was on my way to the club to look for you, when I met you. You see, I shan’t have any delay about luggage, as I have sent on my heavy things. All I have with me is in this bag, and I can easily get to Victoria in twenty minutes.’
灯光艰难地穿过雾气，霍尔华德看了看手表。 “我有很多时间，”他回答道。 “火车要到十二点十五分才开，现在才十一点而已。”事实上，当我遇见你时，我正在去俱乐部找你的路上。你看，我的行李不会有任何延误，因为我已经把我的重物寄出去了。我身上所有的东西都在这个包里，二十分钟内我就能轻松到达维多利亚。”

Dorian looked at him and smiled. ‘What a way for a fashionable painter to travel! A Gladstone bag, and an ulster! Come in, or the fog will get into the house. And mind you don’t talk about anything serious. Nothing is serious nowadays. At least nothing should be.’
多里安看着他，笑了。 “对于一个时尚画家来说，这是多么好的一种旅行方式啊！”一个 Gladstone 包，还有一个 ulster！进来吧，不然雾会进屋的。请注意，不要谈论任何严肃的事情。如今没有什么是严重的。至少什么都不应该是。

Hallward shook his head, as he entered, and followed Dorian into the library. There was a bright wood fire blazing in the large open hearth. The lamps were lit, and an open Dutch silver spirit-case stood, with some siphons of soda-water and large cut-glass tumblers, on a little table.
霍尔华德走进去后摇了摇头，跟着多里安走进了图书馆。大平炉里燃着明亮的柴火。灯亮了，一个打开的荷兰银酒盒放在一张小桌子上，里面放着一些苏打水虹吸管和大雕花玻璃杯。

‘You see your servant made me quite at home, Dorian. He gave me everything I wanted, including your best cigarettes. He is a most hospitable creature. I like him much better than the Frenchman you used to have. What has become of the Frenchman, by the bye?’
“你看你的仆人让我感觉很自在，多里安。他给了我我想要的一切，包括你最好的香烟。他是一个非常热情好客的生物。我比你以前的法国人更喜欢他。再见，那个法国人怎么样了？

Dorian shrugged his shoulders. ‘I believe he married Lady Ashton’s maid, and has established her in Paris as an English dressmaker. Anglomanie is very fashionable over there now, I hear. It seems silly of the French, doesn’t it? But—do you know?—he was not at all a bad servant. I never liked him, but I had nothing to complain about. One often imagines things that are quite absurd. He was really very devoted to me, and seemed quite sorry when he went away. Have another brandy-and-soda? Or would you like hock-and-seltzer? I always take hock-and-seltzer myself. There is sure to be some in the next room.’
多里安耸耸肩。 “我相信他娶了阿什顿夫人的女仆，并让她在巴黎成为一名英国裁缝。我听说现在英国热潮在那里很流行。法国人似乎很傻，不是吗？但是——你知道吗？——他根本不是一个坏仆人。我从来不喜欢他，但我没有什么可抱怨的。人们常常会想象一些非常荒谬的事情。他真的对我非常忠诚，当他离开时，他显得很遗憾。再来一杯白兰地苏打水吗？或者您想要冰块和苏打水吗？我自己总是喝冰块和苏打水。隔壁房间肯定有一些。

‘Thanks, I won’t have anything more,’ said Hallward, taking his cap and coat off, and throwing them on the bag that he had placed in the corner. ‘And now, my dear fellow, I want to speak to you seriously. Don’t frown like that. You make it so much more difficult for me.’
“谢谢，我不会再有任何东西了，”霍尔华德说，脱下帽子和外套，把它们扔到他放在角落里的袋子上。 “现在，我亲爱的朋友，我想认真地和你说话。别那样皱眉。你让我的处境变得更加困难。

‘What is it all about?’ cried Dorian, in his petulant way, flinging himself down on the sofa. ‘I hope it is not about myself. I am tired of myself to-night. I should like to be somebody else.’
“这到底是怎么回事？”多里安暴躁地叫道，猛地倒在沙发上。 “我希望这不是关于我自己。今晚我对自己感到厌倦了。我想成为别人。

‘It is about yourself,’ answered Hallward, in his grave, deep voice, ‘and I must say it to you. I shall only keep you half an hour.’
“这是关于你自己的，”霍尔华德用他严肃而低沉的声音回答，“我必须对你说。我只会留你半个小时。

Dorian sighed, and lit a cigarette. ‘Half an hour!’ he murmured.
多里安叹了口气，点燃了一根香烟。 “半个小时！”他低声说道。

‘It is not much to ask of you, Dorian, and it is entirely for your own sake that I am speaking. I think it right that you should know that the most dreadful things are being said about you in London,—things that I could hardly repeat to you.’
“对你的要求并不多，多里安，我说话完全是为了你自己。我认为你应该知道伦敦正在谈论关于你的最可怕的事情，我很难向你重复这些事情。

‘I don’t wish to know anything about them. I love scandals about other people, but scandals about myself don’t interest me. They have not got the charm of novelty.’
“我不想了解他们的任何事情。我喜欢别人的丑闻，但我对自己的丑闻不感兴趣。他们没有新奇的魅力。

‘They must interest you, Dorian. Every gentleman is interested in his good name. You don’t want people to talk of you as something vile and degraded. Of course you have your position, and your wealth, and all that kind of thing. But position and wealth are not everything. Mind you, I don’t believe these rumors at all. At least, I can’t believe them when I see you. Sin is a thing that writes itself across a man’s face. It cannot be concealed. People talk of secret vices. There are no such things as secret vices. If a wretched man has a vice, it shows itself in the lines of his mouth, the droop of his eyelids, the moulding of his hands even. Somebody— I won’t mention his name, but you know him—came to me last year to have his portrait done. I had never seen him before, and had never heard anything about him at the time, though I have heard a good deal since. He offered an extravagant price. I refused him. There was something in the shape of his fingers that I hated. I know now that I was quite right in what I fancied about him. His life is dreadful. But you, Dorian, with your pure, bright, innocent face, and your marvellous untroubled youth,—I can’t believe anything against you. And yet I see you very seldom, and you never come down to the studio now, and when I am away from you, and I hear all these hideous things that people are whispering about you, I don’t know what to say. Why is it, Dorian, that a man like the Duke of Berwick leaves the room of a club when you enter it? Why is it that so many gentlemen in London will neither go to your house nor invite you to theirs? You used to be a friend of Lord Cawdor. I met him at dinner last week. Your name happened to come up in conversation, in connection with the miniatures you have lent to the exhibition at the Dudley. Cawdor curled his lip, and said that you might have the most artistic tastes, but that you were a man whom no pure-minded girl should be allowed to know, and whom no chaste woman should sit in the same room with. I reminded him that I was a friend of yours, and asked him what he meant. He told me. He told me right out before everybody. It was horrible! Why is your friendship so fateful to young men? There was that wretched boy in the Guards who committed suicide. You were his great friend. There was Sir Henry Ashton, who had to leave England, with a tarnished name. You and he were inseparable. What about Adrian Singleton, and his dreadful end? What about Lord Kent’s only son, and his career? I met his father yesterday in St. James Street. He seemed broken with shame and sorrow. What about the young Duke of Perth? What sort of life has he got now? What gentleman would associate with him? Dorian, Dorian, your reputation is infamous. I know you and Harry are great friends. I say nothing about that now, but surely you need not have made his sister’s name a by-word. When you met Lady Gwendolen, not a breath of scandal had ever touched her. Is there a single decent woman in London now who would drive with her in the Park? Why, even her children are not allowed to live with her. Then there are other stories,—stories that you have been seen creeping at dawn out of dreadful houses and slinking in disguise into the foulest dens in London. Are they true? Can they be true? When I first heard them, I laughed. I hear them now, and they make me shudder. What about your country-house, and the life that is led there? Dorian, you don’t know what is said about you. I won’t tell you that I don’t want to preach to you. I remember Harry saying once that every man who turned himself into an amateur curate for the moment always said that, and then broke his word. I do want to preach to you. I want you to lead such a life as will make the world respect you. I want you to have a clean name and a fair record. I want you to get rid of the dreadful people you associate with. Don’t shrug your shoulders like that. Don’t be so indifferent. You have a wonderful influence. Let it be for good, not for evil. They say that you corrupt every one whom you become intimate with, and that it is quite sufficient for you to enter a house, for shame of some kind to follow after you. I don’t know whether it is so or not. How should I know? But it is said of you. I am told things that it seems impossible to doubt. Lord Gloucester was one of my greatest friends at Oxford. He showed me a letter that his wife had written to him when she was dying alone in her villa at Mentone. Your name was implicated in the most terrible confession I ever read. I told him that it was absurd,—that I knew you thoroughly, and that you were incapable of anything of the kind. Know you? I wonder do I know you? Before I could answer that, I should have to see your soul.’
“你一定对它们感兴趣，多里安。每个绅士都对自己的好名声感兴趣。你不希望人们说你是卑鄙的、有辱人格的人。当然你有你的地位、你的财富等等。但地位和财富并不是一切。请注意，我根本不相信这些谣言。至少，当我看到你的时候，我不敢相信他们。罪是一种写在人脸上的东西。这是无法隐藏的。人们谈论秘密的恶习。不存在诸如秘密恶习之类的事情。如果一个不幸的人有什么缺点，那它就会表现在他的嘴角、下垂的眼睑、甚至他的手的形状上。有人——我不会提他的名字，但你认识他——去年来找我画他的肖像。我以前从未见过他，当时也从未听说过他的任何事情，尽管此后我听说了很多。他给出了一个奢侈的价格。我拒绝了他。他手指的形状有些让我讨厌的地方。我现在知道我对他的幻想是完全正确的。他的生活很可怕。但你，多里安，有着你纯洁、明亮、天真无邪的脸庞，还有你那令人惊叹的、无忧无虑的青春——我不能相信任何反对你的事情。然而我很少见到你，你现在也从来不来录音室，当我离开你时，我听到人们窃窃私语关于你的所有这些可怕的事情，我不知道该说什么。多里安，为什么像伯威克公爵这样的人在你进入俱乐部时却离开了？为什么伦敦那么多绅士既不去你家也不邀请你去他们家？你曾经是考德勋爵的朋友。我上周在晚餐时遇见了他。你的名字碰巧出现在谈话中，与你借给达德利展览的微缩模型有关。 考德撇了撇嘴，说你可能最具艺术品味，但你是一个不应该让纯洁的女孩认识的男人，也不应该让任何贞洁的女人与你坐在一个房间里。我提醒他我是你的朋友，并问他这是什么意思。他告诉我。他当着所有人的面告诉了我。那太差了！为什么你们的友谊对年轻人如此重要？近卫军里有一个可怜的男孩自杀了。你是他的好朋友。亨利·阿什顿爵士不得不离开英国，名誉也受到玷污。你和他形影不离。阿德里安·辛格尔顿（Adrian Singleton）及其可怕的结局又如何呢？肯特勋爵唯一的儿子和他的职业生涯又如何呢？我昨天在圣詹姆斯街见到了他的父亲。他似乎因羞愧和悲伤而崩溃。那么年轻的珀斯公爵呢？他现在过着怎样的生活呢？什么样的绅士会与他交往呢？多里安，多里安，你的名声臭名昭著。我知道你和哈利是好朋友。我现在对此只字不提，但你当然不必把他妹妹的名字当作一个代名词。当你见到格温多琳夫人时，她还没有受到任何丑闻的影响。现在伦敦有一个正派的女人愿意和她一起开车去公园吗？为什么，连她的孩子都不准和她住在一起。还有其他故事——人们看到你在黎明时分从可怕的房子里爬出来，乔装打扮潜入伦敦最肮脏的巢穴。它们是真的吗？它们是真的吗？当我第一次听到他们的声音时，我笑了。我现在听到他们的声音，让我不寒而栗。你的乡间别墅以及那里的生活怎么样？多里安，你不知道别人怎么说你。我不会告诉你我不想向你传道。 我记得哈利曾经说过，每一个暂时把自己变成业余牧师的人总是这么说，然后又食言了。我确实想向你传教。我希望你过上让世界尊重你的生活。我希望你有一个清白的名声和公正的记录。我希望你摆脱那些与你交往的可怕的人。不要那样耸肩。别这么冷漠。你有很大的影响力。让它为善，而不是为恶。他们说你败坏了每一个与你亲近的人，你只要进入一所房子就足够了，因为某种耻辱会追随你。我不知道是不是这样。我怎么知道？但有人说你。有人告诉我一些似乎不容怀疑的事情。格洛斯特勋爵是我在牛津最好的朋友之一。他给我看了一封信，是他的妻子在门通的别墅里孤独地死去时写给他的。你的名字与我读过的最可怕的忏悔有关。我告诉他这是荒谬的——我完全了解你，而你却无能为力。知道你？我想知道我认识你吗？在我回答这个问题之前，我必须先看看你的灵魂。’

‘To see my soul!’ muttered Dorian Gray, starting up from the sofa and turning almost white from fear.
“看看我的灵魂！”道林·格雷低声说道，从沙发上站了起来，脸色几乎吓得煞白。

‘Yes,’ answered Hallward, gravely, and with infinite sorrow in his voice,—‘to see your soul. But only God can do that.’
“是的，”霍尔华德严肃地回答，声音里带着无限的悲伤，“去看看你的灵魂。”但只有上帝才能做到这一点。

A bitter laugh of mockery broke from the lips of the younger man. ‘You shall see it yourself, to-night!’ he cried, seizing a lamp from the table. ‘Come: it is your own handiwork. Why shouldn’t you look at it? You can tell the world all about it afterwards, if you choose. Nobody would believe you. If they did believe you, they’d like me all the better for it. I know the age better than you do, though you will prate about it so tediously. Come, I tell you. You have chattered enough about corruption. Now you shall look on it face to face.’
青年嘴角发出一声嘲讽的苦笑。 “今晚你自己就能看到它！”他抓起桌上的一盏灯喊道。 ‘来吧：这是你自己的杰作。为什么你不应该看它？如果您愿意，您可以事后告诉全世界这一切。没有人会相信你。如果他们真的相信你，他们会因此而更加喜欢我。我比你更了解这个时代，尽管你会如此乏味地喋喋不休。来吧，我告诉你。关于腐败问题你已经说得够多了。现在你要面对面地看它。

There was the madness of pride in every word he uttered. He stamped his foot upon the ground in his boyish insolent manner. He felt a terrible joy at the thought that some one else was to share his secret, and that the man who had painted the portrait that was the origin of all his shame was to be burdened for the rest of his life with the hideous memory of what he had done.
他所说的每一句话都充满了疯狂的骄傲。他以孩子气的傲慢态度跺着脚。一想到有人要分享他的秘密，而那个画了这幅肖像的人，这幅肖像是他所有耻辱的根源，他将在余生中背负着可怕的记忆的负担，他感到一种可怕的喜悦。他做了什么。

‘Yes,’ he continued, coming closer to him, and looking steadfastly into his stern eyes, ‘I will show you my soul. You shall see the thing that you fancy only God can see.’
“是的，”他继续说道，走近他，坚定地看着他严厉的眼睛，“我会让你看看我的灵魂。”你将会看到你认为只有上帝才能看到的东西。

Hallward started back. ‘This is blasphemy, Dorian!’ he cried. ‘You must not say things like that. They are horrible, and they don’t mean anything.’
霍尔沃德向后退了一步。 “这是亵渎，多里安！”他喊道。 ‘你不可以说这样的话。它们太可怕了，而且没有任何意义。

‘You think so?’ He laughed again.
“你这么认为？”他又笑了。

‘I know so. As for what I said to you to-night, I said it for your good. You know I have been always devoted to you.’
'我知道这样。至于我今晚对你说的话，我是为了你好。你知道我一直对你忠诚。

‘Don’t touch me. Finish what you have to say.’
‘别碰我。说完你要说的话。

A twisted flash of pain shot across Hallward’s face. He paused for a moment, and a wild feeling of pity came over him. After all, what right had he to pry into the life of Dorian Gray? If he had done a tithe of what was rumored about him, how much he must have suffered! Then he straightened himself up, and walked over to the fireplace, and stood there, looking at the burning logs with their frost-like ashes and their throbbing cores of flame.
霍华德的脸上闪过一丝扭曲的痛苦。他停顿了一会儿，一股强烈的怜悯之情涌上心头。毕竟，他有什么权利窥探道林·格雷的生活呢？如果他真的按照谣传的那样做了十分之一，他一定要受多少苦啊！然后他直起身子，走到壁炉边，站在那里，看着燃烧的木头，上面结着冰霜般的灰烬，还有跳动的火焰核心。

‘I am waiting, Basil,’ said the young man, in a hard, clear voice.
“我在等，巴兹尔，”年轻人用严厉而清晰的声音说道。

He turned round. ‘What I have to say is this,’ he cried. ‘You must give me some answer to these horrible charges that are made against you. If you tell me that they are absolutely untrue from beginning to end, I will believe you. Deny them, Dorian, deny them! Can’t you see what I am going through? My God! don’t tell me that you are infamous!’
他转过身来。 “我要说的是这个，”他喊道。 “你必须给我一些针对你的可怕指控的答案。如果你告诉我它们从头到尾都是绝对不真实的，我就相信你。否认他们，多里安，否认他们！你看不到我正在经历什么吗？我的上帝！别告诉我你臭名昭著！

Dorian Gray smiled. There was a curl of contempt in his lips. ‘Come up-stairs, Basil,’ he said, quietly. ‘I keep a diary of my life from day to day, and it never leaves the room in which it is written. I will show it to you if you come with me.’
道连·格雷笑了。他的唇角浮现出一抹轻蔑。 “上楼来，巴兹尔，”他轻声说道。 “我日复一日地写日记，它永远不会离开写日记的房间。如果你跟我一起去的话，我会把它展示给你看。

‘I will come with you, Dorian, if you wish it. I see I have missed my train. That makes no matter. I can go to-morrow. But don’t ask me to read anything to-night. All I want is a plain answer to my question.’
“多里安，如果你愿意的话，我会跟你一起去。”我发现我错过了火车。那没关系。我明天就可以去。但今晚不要让我读任何东西。我想要的只是对我的问题有一个简单的答案。

‘That will be given to you up-stairs. I could not give it here. You won’t have to read long. Don’t keep me waiting.’
‘楼上会给你的。我不能在这里提供。你不需要读很长时间。别让我等了。

Chapter XI
第十一章

He passed out of the room, and began the ascent, Basil Hallward following close behind. They walked softly, as men instinctively do at night. The lamp cast fantastic shadows on the wall and staircase. A rising wind made some of the windows rattle.
他走出房间，开始上升，巴兹尔·霍尔沃德紧随其后。他们轻轻地走着，就像男人在晚上本能地做的那样。灯在墙壁和楼梯上投射出奇妙的阴影。刮起的风吹得一些窗户嘎嘎作响。

When they reached the top landing, Dorian set the lamp down on the floor, and taking out the key turned it in the lock. ‘You insist on knowing, Basil?’ he asked, in a low voice.
当他们到达顶部平台时，多里安将灯放在地板上，拿出钥匙将其插入锁中。 “你坚持要知道吗，巴兹尔？”他低声问道。

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘I am delighted,’ he murmured, smiling. Then he added, somewhat bitterly, ‘You are the one man in the world who is entitled to know everything about me. You have had more to do with my life than you think.’ And, taking up the lamp, he opened the door and went in. A cold current of air passed them, and the light shot up for a moment in a flame of murky orange. He shuddered. ‘Shut the door behind you,’ he said, as he placed the lamp on the table.
“我很高兴，”他微笑着低声说道。然后他有点痛苦地补充道：“你是世界上唯一有权了解我一切的人。”你对我生命的影响比你想象的还要多。”然后，他拿起灯，打开门走了进去。一股冷空气从他们身边吹过，灯光在昏暗的火焰中猛然升起。橙子。他浑身发抖。 “把门关上，”他一边说，一边把灯放在桌子上。

Hallward glanced round him, with a puzzled expression. The room looked as if it had not been lived in for years. A faded Flemish tapestry, a curtained picture, an old Italian cassone, and an almost empty bookcase,—that was all that it seemed to contain, besides a chair and a table. As Dorian Gray was lighting a half-burned candle that was standing on the mantel-shelf, he saw that the whole place was covered with dust, and that the carpet was in holes. A mouse ran scuffling behind the wainscoting. There was a damp odor of mildew.
霍尔华德环视四周，一脸困惑。这个房间看起来好像已经很多年没有人住过了。一张褪色的佛兰芒挂毯、一张挂着窗帘的画、一个古老的意大利卡松琴和一个几乎空着的书柜——除了一把椅子和一张桌子之外，这似乎就是它所包含的一切。当多里安·格雷点燃壁炉架上一根半燃的蜡烛时，他看到整个地方都布满了灰尘，地毯也破了洞。一只老鼠在护墙板后面扭打着跑。有一股潮湿的霉味。

‘So you think that it is only God who sees the soul, Basil? Draw that curtain back, and you will see mine.’
“所以你认为只有上帝才能看到灵魂，巴兹尔？把窗帘拉开，你就会看到我的。

The voice that spoke was cold and cruel. ‘You are mad, Dorian, or playing a part,’ muttered Hallward, frowning.
说话的声音冰冷而残忍。 “你疯了，多里安，或者你在扮演角色。”霍尔华德皱着眉头低声说道。

‘You won’t? Then I must do it myself,’ said the young man; and he tore the curtain from its rod, and flung it on the ground.
‘你不会吗？那我就得自己做。”年轻人说道。他把幔子从幔子上扯下来，扔在地上。

An exclamation of horror broke from Hallward’s lips as he saw in the dim light the hideous thing on the canvas leering at him. There was something in its expression that filled him with disgust and loathing. Good heavens! it was Dorian Gray’s own face that he was looking at! The horror, whatever it was, had not yet entirely marred that marvellous beauty. There was still some gold in the thinning hair and some scarlet on the sensual lips. The sodden eyes had kept something of the loveliness of their blue, the noble curves had not yet passed entirely away from chiselled nostrils and from plastic throat. Yes, it was Dorian himself. But who had done it? He seemed to recognize his own brush-work, and the frame was his own design. The idea was monstrous, yet he felt afraid. He seized the lighted candle, and held it to the picture. In the left-hand corner was his own name, traced in long letters of bright vermilion.
当霍尔华德在昏暗的光线下看到画布上那个可怕的东西正在斜视着他时，他发出一声惊恐的惊呼。它的表情让他充满了厌恶和厌恶。我的妈呀！他看到的正是道林·格雷自己的脸！不管恐惧是什么，还没有完全损害那奇妙的美丽。稀疏的头发里还带着一些金色，性感的嘴唇上还带着一些猩红色。湿漉漉的眼睛还保留着可爱的蓝色，高贵的曲线还没有完全从轮廓分明的鼻孔和塑料喉咙上消失。是的，就是多里安本人。但是谁干的呢？他似乎认出了自己的笔触，画框也是他自己设计的。这个想法很可怕，但他却感到害怕。他抓住点燃的蜡烛，把它放在照片上。左角是他自己的名字，用亮朱红色的长字写着。

It was some foul parody, some infamous, ignoble satire. He had never done that. Still, it was his own picture. He knew it, and he felt as if his blood had changed from fire to sluggish ice in a moment. His own picture! What did it mean? Why had it altered? He turned, and looked at Dorian Gray with the eyes of a sick man. His mouth twitched, and his parched tongue seemed unable to articulate. He passed his hand across his forehead. It was dank with clammy sweat.
这是一些肮脏的模仿，一些臭名昭著的、不光彩的讽刺。他从来没有这样做过。不过，那是他自己的照片。他知道，他感觉自己的血液在一瞬间从火变成了迟缓的冰。他自己的照片！这意味着什么？为什么它改变了？他转过身，用病人般的眼神看着道连·格雷。他的嘴角抽动着，干渴的舌头似乎无法说话。他用手抚过额头。浑身都是湿漉漉的汗水。

The young man was leaning against the mantel-shelf, watching him with that strange expression that is on the faces of those who are absorbed in a play when a great artist is acting. There was neither real sorrow in it nor real joy. There was simply the passion of the spectator, with perhaps a flicker of triumph in the eyes. He had taken the flower out of his coat, and was smelling it, or pretending to do so.
年轻人靠在壁炉架上，用一种奇怪的表情看着他，就像一位伟大的艺术家表演时全神贯注于戏剧的人脸上的表情一样。其中既没有真正的悲伤，也没有真正的快乐。只是观众的热情，眼中或许还闪烁着胜利的光芒。他从外套里取出花，正在闻，或者假装在闻。

‘What does this mean?’ cried Hallward, at last. His own voice sounded shrill and curious in his ears.
“这是什么意思？”霍华德最后喊道。他自己的声音在他耳边听起来尖锐而好奇。

‘Years ago, when I was a boy,’ said Dorian Gray, ‘you met me, devoted yourself to me, flattered me, and taught me to be vain of my good looks. One day you introduced me to a friend of yours, who explained to me the wonder of youth, and you finished a portrait of me that revealed to me the wonder of beauty. In a mad moment, that I don’t know, even now, whether I regret or not, I made a wish. Perhaps you would call it a prayer ….’
“很多年前，当我还是个孩子的时候，”道林·格雷说道，“你遇见了我，为我奉献一切，奉承我，并教会我不要对自己的美貌感到自负。有一天，你把我介绍给你的一位朋友，他向我解释了青春的奇妙，而你完成了一幅我的肖像，向我展示了美丽的奇妙。在一个疯狂的时刻，我不知道，即使现在，我是否后悔，我许下了一个愿望。也许你会称其为祈祷……”

‘I remember it! Oh, how well I remember it! No! the thing is impossible. The room is damp. The mildew has got into the canvas. The paints I used had some wretched mineral poison in them. I tell you the thing is impossible.’
'我记得！哦，我记得多么清楚啊！不！这件事是不可能的。房间很潮湿。画布上已经发霉了。我使用的油漆中含有一些令人讨厌的矿物毒物。我告诉你这件事是不可能的。

‘Ah, what is impossible?’ murmured the young man, going over to the window, and leaning his forehead against the cold, mist-stained glass.
“啊，有什么是不可能的呢？”年轻人低声说道，走到窗前，把额头靠在冰冷、蒙着雾气的玻璃上。

‘You told me you had destroyed it.’
“你告诉我你已经毁掉了它。”

‘I was wrong. It has destroyed me.’
'我错了。它毁了我。

‘I don’t believe it is my picture.’
“我不相信这是我的照片。”

‘Can’t you see your romance in it?’ said Dorian, bitterly.
“你难道没看出你的浪漫吗？”多里安苦涩地说。

‘My romance, as you call it …’
“我的浪漫，正如你所说……”

‘As you called it.’
“正如你所说的那样。”

‘There was nothing evil in it, nothing shameful. This is the face of a satyr.’
‘这里面没有什么邪恶的事，也没有什么可耻的。这是色狼的脸。

‘It is the face of my soul.’
“这是我灵魂的面孔。”

‘God! what a thing I must have worshipped! This has the eyes of a devil.’
'上帝！我一定崇拜过什么东西啊！这有一双魔鬼的眼睛。

‘Each of us has Heaven and Hell in him, Basil,’ cried Dorian, with a wild gesture of despair.
“我们每个人心里都有天堂和地狱，巴兹尔，”多里安喊道，做出了绝望的疯狂举动。

Hallward turned again to the portrait, and gazed at it. ‘My God! if it is true,’ he exclaimed, ‘and this is what you have done with your life, why, you must be worse even than those who talk against you fancy you to be!’ He held the light up again to the canvas, and examined it. The surface seemed to be quite undisturbed, and as he had left it. It was from within, apparently, that the foulness and horror had come. Through some strange quickening of inner life the leprosies of sin were slowly eating the thing away. The rotting of a corpse in a watery grave was not so fearful.
霍尔华德再次转向肖像，凝视着它。 '我的上帝！如果这是真的，”他喊道，“这就是你一生所做的事，为什么，你一定比那些反对你的人想象的还要糟糕！”他再次把灯举到画布上，并检查了它。表面似乎没有受到任何干扰，就像他离开时一样。显然，肮脏和恐怖是从内部而来的。通过内在生命的某种奇怪的加速，罪的麻风病正在慢慢地吞噬这东西。尸体在水坟里腐烂并不那么可怕。

His hand shook, and the candle fell from its socket on the floor, and lay there sputtering. He placed his foot on it and put it out. Then he flung himself into the rickety chair that was standing by the table and buried his face in his hands.
他的手颤抖着，蜡烛从灯座掉到地板上，噼啪作响。他把脚踩在上面，然后把它拿出来。然后他猛地坐进桌边那张摇摇晃晃的椅子上，把脸埋在双手里。

‘Good God, Dorian, what a lesson! what an awful lesson!’ There was no answer, but he could hear the young man sobbing at the window.
“天哪，多里安，这是多么好的一课啊！多么糟糕的教训啊！” 没有任何回应，但他能听到年轻人在窗边抽泣。

‘Pray, Dorian, pray,’ he murmured. ‘What is it that one was taught to say in one’s boyhood? ‘Lead us not into temptation. Forgive us our sins. Wash away our iniquities.’ Let us say that together. The prayer of your pride has been answered. The prayer of your repentance will be answered also. I worshipped you too much. I am punished for it. You worshipped yourself too much. We are both punished.’
“祈祷吧，多里安，祈祷吧，”他低声说道。 ‘童年时被教导说的是什么？ ‘不叫我们遇见试探。宽恕我们的罪过。洗净我们的罪孽。’让我们一起这么说。你骄傲的祈祷已经得到回应。你悔改的祈祷也将得到回应。我太崇拜你了。我因此受到惩罚。你太崇拜自己了。我们都受到了惩罚。

Dorian Gray turned slowly around, and looked at him with tear-dimmed eyes. ‘It is too late, Basil,’ he murmured.
多里安·格雷缓缓转过身，用泪水模糊的眼睛看着他。 “太晚了，巴兹尔，”他低声说道。

‘It is never too late, Dorian. Let us kneel down and try if we can remember a prayer. Isn’t there a verse somewhere, ‘Though your sins be as scarlet, yet I will make them as white as snow’?’
“永远不会太晚，多里安。让我们跪下来尝试一下是否能记住祈祷。不是有一句诗句说：“虽然你的罪孽深红，但我将使它们变得洁白如雪”？

‘Those words mean nothing to me now.’
“这些话现在对我来说毫无意义。”

‘Hush! don’t say that. You have done enough evil in your life. My God! don’t you see that accursed thing leering at us?’
‘嘘！别这么说。你这一生做的恶已经够多了。我的上帝！你没看到那个该死的东西在斜视着我们吗？

Dorian Gray glanced at the picture, and suddenly an uncontrollable feeling of hatred for Basil Hallward came over him. The mad passions of a hunted animal stirred within him, and he loathed the man who was seated at the table, more than he had ever loathed anything in his whole life. He glanced wildly around. Something glimmered on the top of the painted chest that faced him. His eye fell on it. He knew what it was. It was a knife that he had brought up, some days before, to cut a piece of cord, and had forgotten to take away with him. He moved slowly towards it, passing Hallward as he did so. As soon as he got behind him, he seized it, and turned round. Hallward moved in his chair as if he was going to rise. He rushed at him, and dug the knife into the great vein that is behind the ear, crushing the man’s head down on the table, and stabbing again and again.
多里安·格雷看了一眼照片，突然对巴兹尔·霍华德产生了无法控制的仇恨。一种被猎杀的动物的疯狂激情在他内心激起，他厌恶坐在桌边的那个人，比他一生中从未厌恶过的任何事情都要多。他疯狂地环顾四周。他对面的彩绘箱子顶部有什么东西在闪闪发光。他的目光落在了上面。他知道那是什么。这是一把刀，他几天前拿出来剪一根绳子，却忘了带走。他慢慢地朝它走去，同时经过了霍尔华德。当他走到他身后时，他抓住了它，然后转过身来。霍尔华德在椅子上动了动，好像要站起来。他冲到他面前，将刀插入耳后的大静脉，将那人的头按在桌子上，连连刺来。

There was a stifled groan, and the horrible sound of some one choking with blood. The outstretched arms shot up convulsively three times, waving grotesque stiff-fingered hands in the air. He stabbed him once more, but the man did not move. Something began to trickle on the floor. He waited for a moment, still pressing the head down. Then he threw the knife on the table, and listened.
传来一声压抑的呻吟声，以及有人被鲜血窒息的可怕声音。伸出的手臂抽搐了三下，手指僵硬的怪异双手在空中挥舞着。他又刺了他一刀，那人却没有动。有什么东西开始滴到地板上。他等了一会儿，仍然低着头。然后他把刀扔在桌子上，听着。

He could hear nothing, but the drip, drip on the threadbare carpet. He opened the door, and went out on the landing. The house was quite quiet. No one was stirring.
他什么也听不到，除了滴水声、滴水声落在破旧的地毯上。他打开门，走到楼梯平台上。屋子里很安静。没有人搅拌。

He took out the key, and returned to the room, locking himself in as he did so.
他拿出钥匙，回到房间，将自己反锁在里面。

The thing was still seated in the chair, straining over the table with bowed head, and humped back, and long fantastic arms. Had it not been for the red jagged tear in the neck, and the clotted black pool that slowly widened on the table, one would have said that the man was simply asleep.
那东西仍然坐在椅子上，低着头，弓着背，靠在桌子上，手臂又长又长。要不是脖子上那道红色的锯齿状撕裂，以及桌上慢慢变大的凝结的黑色水潭，人们只能说这个男人只是睡着了。

How quickly it had all been done! He felt strangely calm, and, walking over to the window, opened it, and stepped out on the balcony. The wind had blown the fog away, and the sky was like a monstrous peacock’s tail, starred with myriads of golden eyes. He looked down, and saw the policeman going his rounds and flashing a bull’s-eye lantern on the doors of the silent houses. The crimson spot of a prowling hansom gleamed at the corner, and then vanished. A woman in a ragged shawl was creeping round by the railings, staggering as she went. Now and then she stopped, and peered back. Once, she began to sing in a hoarse voice. The policeman strolled over and said something to her. She stumbled away, laughing. A bitter blast swept across the Square. The gas-lamps flickered, and became blue, and the leafless trees shook their black iron branches as if in pain. He shivered, and went back, closing the window behind him.
这一切完成得多么快啊！他感到出奇的平静，走到窗前，打开窗户，走到阳台上。风吹散了雾气，天空就像一条巨大的孔雀尾巴，镶嵌着无数金色的眼睛。他低头一看，只见警察正在巡视，并在寂静的房屋门上闪烁着牛眼灯。一辆徘徊的双轮马车的深红色斑点在拐角处闪烁，然后消失了。一个披着破烂披肩的女人正沿着栏杆爬行，走得踉踉跄跄。她时不时地停下来，回头看看。有一次，她开始用沙哑的声音唱歌。警察走过来对她说了些什么。她笑着跌跌撞撞地走了。一股刺骨的气浪席卷了整个广场。煤气灯闪烁着，变成了蓝色，光秃秃的树木仿佛在痛苦地摇动着黑色的铁枝。他颤抖着，走回去，关上了身后的窗户。

He passed to the door, turned the key, and opened it. He did not even glance at the murdered man. He felt that the secret of the whole thing was not to realize the situation. The friend who had painted the fatal portrait, the portrait to which all his misery had been due, had gone out of his life. That was enough.
他走到门口，转动钥匙，打开了门。他甚至没有看那个被谋杀的人一眼。他觉得整件事的秘密就在于没有意识到情况。画了这幅致命肖像的朋友，他所有的痛苦都归咎于这幅肖像，已经从他的生活中消失了。这就足够了。

Then he remembered the lamp. It was a rather curious one of Moorish workmanship, made of dull silver inlaid with arabesques of burnished steel. Perhaps it might be missed by his servant, and questions would be asked. He turned back, and took it from the table. How still the man was! How horribly white the long hands looked! He was like a dreadful wax image.
然后他想起了那盏灯。这是一种相当奇怪的摩尔工艺，由暗银制成，上面镶嵌着抛光钢的阿拉伯图案。也许他的仆人可能会错过，并且会提出问题。他转过身来，从桌上拿起了它。那人多么安静啊！那双修长的手看起来多么惨白啊！他就像一尊可怕的蜡像。

He locked the door behind him, and crept quietly down-stairs. The wood-work creaked, and seemed to cry out as if in pain. He stopped several times, and waited. No: everything was still. It was merely the sound of his own footsteps.
他锁上门，悄悄地下楼。木制品吱吱作响，似乎在痛苦地哭泣。他多次停下来等待。不：一切都静止了。那只是他自己的脚步声。

When he reached the library, he saw the bag and coat in the corner. They must be hidden away somewhere. He unlocked a secret press that was in the wainscoting, and put them into it. He could easily burn them afterwards. Then he pulled out his watch. It was twenty minutes to two.
当他到达图书馆时，他看到角落里的包和外套。它们一定藏在某个地方。他打开护墙板上的一个秘密压机，把它们放进去。之后他可以很容易地烧掉它们。然后他拿出手表。距离两点还有二十分钟。

He sat down, and began to think. Every year—every month, almost— men were strangled in England for what he had done. There had been a madness of murder in the air. Some red star had come too close to the earth.
他坐下来，开始思考。每年——几乎每个月——英国都有人因为他的所作所为而被勒死。空气中弥漫着疯狂的杀戮气息。某颗红星离地球太近了。

Evidence? What evidence was there against him? Basil Hallward had left the house at eleven. No one had seen him come in again. Most of the servants were at Selby Royal. His valet had gone to bed.
证据？有什么证据对他不利？巴兹尔·霍华德十一点就离开了家。没有人再看见他进来了。大多数仆人都在塞尔比皇家。他的贴身男仆已经上床睡觉了。

Paris! Yes. It was to Paris that Basil had gone, by the midnight train, as he had intended. With his curious reserved habits, it would be months before any suspicions would be aroused. Months? Everything could be destroyed long before then.
巴黎！是的。巴兹尔按照他的计划乘坐午夜火车前往巴黎。以他奇怪的矜持习惯，要过几个月才会引起任何怀疑。几个月？一切都可能在那之前很久就被摧毁。

A sudden thought struck him. He put on his fur coat and hat, and went out into the hall. There he paused, hearing the slow heavy tread of the policeman outside on the pavement, and seeing the flash of the lantern reflected in the window. He waited, holding his breath.
他突然想到一个念头。他穿上皮大衣，戴上帽子，走进大厅。他停了下来，听到外面人行道上警察缓慢而沉重的脚步声，看到窗户上反射着灯笼的闪光。他屏住呼吸等待着。

After a few moments he opened the front door, and slipped out, shutting it very gently behind him. Then he began ringing the bell. In about ten minutes his valet appeared, half dressed, and looking very drowsy.
过了一会儿，他打开前门，溜出去，轻轻地在身后关上门。然后他开始按门铃。大约十分钟后，他的贴身男仆出现了，衣着一半，看上去很昏昏欲睡。

‘I am sorry to have had to wake you up, Francis,’ he said, stepping in; ‘but I had forgotten my latch-key. What time is it?’
“弗朗西斯，我很抱歉不得不叫醒你，”他走进来说道。 “但我忘记了我的门锁钥匙。”现在是几奌？'

‘Five minutes past two, sir,’ answered the man, looking at the clock and yawning.
“两点零五分，先生。”那人回答道，看着时钟，打了个哈欠。

‘Five minutes past two? How horribly late! You must wake me at nine to-morrow. I have some work to do.’
“两点零五分？多么可怕的迟到啊！你必须明天九点叫醒我。我还有一些工作要做。

‘All right, sir.’
“好吧，先生。”

‘Did any one call this evening?’
“今天晚上有人打电话来吗？”

‘Mr. Hallward, sir. He stayed here till eleven, and then he went away to catch his train.’
'先生。霍尔华德，先生。他在这里待到十一点，然后就去赶火车了。

‘Oh! I am sorry I didn’t see him. Did he leave any message?’
'哦！很遗憾我没有看到他。他有留言吗？

‘No, sir, except that he would write to you.’
“不，先生，只是他会写信给您。”

‘That will do, Francis. Don’t forget to call me at nine tomorrow.’
“那就行了，弗朗西斯。别忘了明天九点给我打电话。”

‘No, sir.’
'不，先生。'

The man shambled down the passage in his slippers.
那人穿着拖鞋，摇摇晃晃地走在过道上。

Dorian Gray threw his hat and coat upon the yellow marble table, and passed into the library. He walked up and down the room for a quarter of an hour, biting his lip, and thinking. Then he took the Blue Book down from one of the shelves, and began to turn over the leaves. ‘Alan Campbell, 152, Hertford Street, Mayfair.’ Yes; that was the man he wanted.
道连·格雷将帽子和外套扔到黄色大理石桌子上，然后走进了图书馆。他在房间里来回踱步了一刻钟，咬着嘴唇思考着。然后他从一个书架上取下《蓝皮书》，开始翻动书页。 “艾伦·坎贝尔，152，赫特福德街，梅菲尔。”是的；那就是他想要的人。

Chapter XII
第十二章

At nine o’clock the next morning his servant came in with a cup of chocolate on a tray, and opened the shutters. Dorian was sleeping quite peacefully, lying on his right side, with one hand underneath his cheek. He looked like a boy who had been tired out with play, or study.
第二天早上九点，他的仆人进来了，托盘上盛着一杯巧克力，打开了百叶窗。多里安睡得很安详，他右侧躺着，一只手放在脸颊下面。他看起来就像一个因玩耍或学习而疲惫不堪的男孩。

The man had to touch him twice on the shoulder before he woke, and as he opened his eyes a faint smile passed across his lips, as though he had been having some delightful dream. Yet he had not dreamed at all. His night had been untroubled by any images of pleasure or of pain. But youth smiles without any reason. It is one of its chiefest charms.
男人在他的肩膀上碰了两下，他才醒过来，睁开眼睛时，嘴角掠过一丝浅笑，仿佛做了一场美梦。然而他根本就没有做梦。他的夜晚没有受到任何快乐或痛苦的意象的困扰。但青春却毫无理由地微笑着。这是它最大的魅力之一。

He turned round, and, leaning on his elbow, began to drink his chocolate. The mellow November sun was streaming into the room. The sky was bright blue, and there was a genial warmth in the air. It was almost like a morning in May.
他转过身来，靠在胳膊肘上，开始喝巧克力。十一月柔和的阳光洒进房间。天空蔚蓝，空气中弥漫着温暖的气息。这几乎就像五月的一个早晨。

Gradually the events of the preceding night crept with silent bloodstained feet into his brain, and reconstructed themselves there with terrible distinctness. He winced at the memory of all that he had suffered, and for a moment the same curious feeling of loathing for Basil Hallward, that had made him kill him as he sat in the chair, came back to him, and he grew cold with passion. The dead man was still sitting there, too, and in the sunlight now. How horrible that was! Such hideous things were for the darkness, not for the day.
渐渐地，前一天晚上发生的事情随着沾满血迹的双脚无声无息地潜入他的大脑，并以可怕的清晰度重新呈现出来。想起自己所受的一切，他不禁皱起了眉头，有那么一刻，他对巴兹尔·霍华德那种奇怪的厌恶感又回来了，这种感觉曾让他在坐在椅子上时杀死了他，而他的激情又变得冷漠起来。 。死者也还坐在那里，而且现在在阳光下。那是多么可怕啊！这种可怕的东西是在黑暗中出现的，而不是在白天出现的。

He felt that if he brooded on what he had gone through he would sicken or grow mad. There were sins whose fascination was more in the memory than in the doing of them, strange triumphs that gratified the pride more than the passions, and gave to the intellect a quickened sense of joy, greater than any joy they brought, or could ever bring, to the senses. But this was not one of them. It was a thing to be driven out of the mind, to be drugged with poppies, to be strangled lest it might strangle one itself.
他觉得如果他沉思自己所经历的事情，他会感到恶心或发疯。有些罪孽的魅力更多的是在记忆中，而不是在实施中，奇怪的胜利更能满足骄傲而不是激情，并给智力带来一种快速的喜悦感，比它们带来的或可能带来的任何快乐都要大。 ，到感官上。但这不是其中之一。这是一件需要被赶出头脑的事情，需要被罂粟麻醉，需要被勒死，以免它会勒死自己。

He passed his hand across his forehead, and then got up hastily, and dressed himself with even more than his usual attention, giving a good deal of care to the selection of his necktie and scarf-pin, and changing his rings more than once.
他伸手抚过额头，然后急忙起身，穿得比平时更加​​用心，领带、围巾别针的挑选都非常用心，戒指也不止一次地换过。

He spent a long time over breakfast, tasting the various dishes, talking to his valet about some new liveries that he was thinking of getting made for the servants at Selby, and going through his correspondence. Over some of the letters he smiled. Three of them bored him. One he read several times over, and then tore up with a slight look of annoyance in his face. ‘That awful thing, a woman’s memory!’ as Lord Henry had once said.
他花了很长时间吃早餐，品尝各种菜肴，与他的男仆谈论他正在考虑为塞尔比的仆人制作的一些新制服，并检查他的信件。看着一些信，他微笑着。其中三个让他感到厌烦。其中一封他读了好几遍，然后脸上带着一丝恼怒地撕掉了。正如亨利勋爵曾经说过的那样，“女人的记忆真是太可怕了！”

When he had drunk his coffee, he sat down at the table, and wrote two letters. One he put in his pocket, the other he handed to the valet.
喝完咖啡后，他在桌边坐下，写了两封信。他把一张放进口袋，另一张递给服务员。

‘Take this round to 152, Hertford Street, Francis, and if Mr. Campbell is out of town, get his address.’
“绕这一圈到弗朗西斯赫特福德街 152 号，如果坎贝尔先生不在城里，请询问他的地址。”

As soon as he was alone, he lit a cigarette, and began sketching upon a piece of paper, drawing flowers, and bits of architecture, first, and then faces. Suddenly he remarked that every face that he drew seemed to have an extraordinary likeness to Basil Hallward. He frowned, and, getting up, went over to the bookcase and took out a volume at hazard. He was determined that he would not think about what had happened, till it became absolutely necessary to do so.
当他只剩下一个人的时候，他点了一支烟，开始在一张纸上画画，先画花朵，然后画一些建筑，然后是面孔。突然，他说他画的每一张脸似乎都与巴兹尔·霍尔沃德有着非凡的相似之处。他皱起眉头，站起身来，走到书柜前，随意地拿出了一本书。他决定，除非绝对有必要，否则他不会去想发生的事情。

When he had stretched himself on the sofa, he looked at the titlepage of the book. It was Gautier’s ‘Emaux et Camées,’ Charpentier’s Japanese-paper edition, with the Jacquemart etching. The binding was of citron-green leather with a design of gilt trellis-work and dotted pomegranates. It had been given to him by Adrian Singleton. As he turned over the pages his eye fell on the poem about the hand of Lacenaire, the cold yellow hand ‘du supplice encore mal lavée,’ with its downy red hairs and its ‘doigts de faune.’ He glanced at his own white taper fingers, and passed on, till he came to those lovely verses upon Venice:
当他在沙发上躺下时，他看着书的扉页。这是戈蒂埃的《Emaux et Camées》，夏彭蒂埃的日本纸版，带有雅克马尔的蚀刻版画。封面采用柠檬绿皮革制成，带有镀金格子图案和点缀石榴图案。它是阿德里安·辛格尔顿送给他的。当他翻阅书页时，他的目光落到了那首关于拉塞奈尔之手的诗上，那只冰冷的黄手“du suplice encore mal lavée”，有着柔软的红毛和“doigts de faune”。他看了一眼自己的白色锥体。手指，继续往前走，直到他听到威尼斯的那些可爱的诗句：

Sur une gamme chromatique,
Sur une gamme chromatique，

Le sein de perles ruisselant,
La Vénus de l’Adriatique
亚得里亚海的维纳斯

Sort de l’eau son corps rose et blanc.
排序 de l’eau son corps 玫瑰和白色。

Les dômes, sur l’azur des ondes
蓝色圆顶上的圆顶

Suivant la phrase au pur contour,
Suivant la 短语 au pur 轮廓，

S’enflent comme des gorges rondes
S'enflent comme des orges rondes

Que soulève un soupir d’amour.
Que Soulève un soupir d’amour。

L’esquif aborde et me dépose,
L’esquif aborde et me depose,

Jetant son amarre au pilier,
Jetant 儿子 amarre au pilier,

Devant une façade rose,
Devant une 外观上升，

Sur le marbre d’un escalier.
Sur le marbre d’un escalier。

How exquisite they were! As one read them, one seemed to be floating down the green water-ways of the pink and pearl city, lying in a black gondola with silver prow and trailing curtains. The mere lines looked to him like those straight lines of turquoise-blue that follow one as one pushes out to the Lido. The sudden flashes of color reminded him of the gleam of the opal-and-iris-throated birds that flutter round the tall honey-combed Campanile, or stalk, with such stately grace, through the dim arcades. Leaning back with halfclosed eyes, he kept saying over and over to himself,—
他们多么精致啊！当人们阅读它们时，人们似乎正沿着粉红色和珍珠色城市的绿色水道漂流，躺在一艘带有银色船头和拖曳窗帘的黑色贡多拉中。在他看来，这些简单的线条就像人们驶向丽都时所遵循的那些绿松石蓝色的直线。突然闪烁的色彩让他想起了蛋白石和虹膜喉鸟的光芒，它们在高大的蜂窝状钟楼周围振翅，或者说，在昏暗的拱廊中以如此庄严的优雅飞行。他向后靠去，半闭着眼睛，一遍又一遍地对自己说：

Devant une façade rose,
Devant une 外观上升，

Sur le marbre d’un escalier.
Sur le marbre d’un escalier。

The whole of Venice was in those two lines. He remembered the autumn that he had passed there, and a wonderful love that had stirred him to delightful fantastic follies. There was romance in every place. But Venice, like Oxford, had kept the background for romance, and background was everything, or almost everything. Basil had been with him part of the time, and had gone wild over Tintoret. Poor Basil! what a horrible way for a man to die!
整个威尼斯都在这两条线上。他记得他在那里度过的那个秋天，还有一种美妙的爱情激励他做出令人愉快的荒唐事。到处都弥漫着浪漫的气息。但威尼斯和牛津一样，保留了浪漫的背景，而背景就是一切，或者说几乎一切。巴兹尔曾经和他待过一段时间，并且对丁托雷非常着迷。可怜的巴兹尔！一个人的死法是多么可怕啊！

He sighed, and took up the book again, and tried to forget. He read of the swallows that fly in and out of the little café at Smyrna where the Hadjis sit counting their amber beads and the turbaned merchants smoke their long tasselled pipes and talk gravely to each other; of the Obelisk in the Place de la Concorde that weeps tears of granite in its lonely sunless exile, and longs to be back by the hot lotus-covered Nile, where there are Sphinxes, and rose-red ibises, and white vultures with gilded claws, and crocodiles, with small beryl eyes, that crawl over the green steaming mud; and of that curious statue that Gautier compares to a contralto voice, the ‘monstre charmant’ that couches in the porphyry-room of the Louvre. But after a time the book fell from his hand. He grew nervous, and a horrible fit of terror came over him. What if Alan Campbell should be out of England? Days would elapse before he could come back. Perhaps he might refuse to come. What could he do then? Every moment was of vital importance.
他叹了口气，再次拿起书本，试图忘记。他读到燕子在士麦那的小咖啡馆里飞进飞出，哈吉夫妇坐在咖啡馆里数着琥珀珠子，戴头巾的商人抽着长长的流苏烟斗，严肃地互相交谈。协和广场的方尖碑在孤独无光的流放中流下花岗岩的眼泪，渴望回到炎热的莲花覆盖的尼罗河边，那里有狮身人面像、玫瑰红的朱鹮和镀金爪子的白色秃鹰，还有长着绿柱石小眼睛的鳄鱼，它们在冒着热气的绿色泥浆上爬行；还有戈蒂埃将其比作女低音的那座奇怪的雕像，即卧在卢浮宫斑岩室中的“怪物魅力”。但过了一会儿，书从他手里掉了下来。他变得紧张起来，一阵可怕的恐惧袭上心头。如果艾伦·坎贝尔离开英格兰怎么办？几天过去了，他才能回来。也许他可能拒绝来。那他能做什么呢？每一刻都至关重要。

They had been great friends once, five years before,—almost inseparable, indeed. Then the intimacy had come suddenly to an end. When they met in society now, it was only Dorian Gray who smiled: Alan Campbell never did.
五年前，他们曾经是好朋友——事实上，几乎形影不离。然后亲密关系突然结束了。当他们现在在社会上见面时，只有道林·格雷微笑着：艾伦·坎贝尔从来没有微笑过。

He was an extremely clever young man, though he had no real appreciation of the visible arts, and whatever little sense of the beauty of poetry he possessed he had gained entirely from Dorian. His dominant intellectual passion was for science. At Cambridge he had spent a great deal of his time working in the Laboratory, and had taken a good class in the Natural Science tripos of his year. Indeed, he was still devoted to the study of chemistry, and had a laboratory of his own, in which he used to shut himself up all day long, greatly to the annoyance of his mother, who had set her heart on his standing for Parliament and had a vague idea that a chemist was a person who made up prescriptions. He was an excellent musician, however, as well, and played both the violin and the piano better than most amateurs. In fact, it was music that had first brought him and Dorian Gray together,—music and that indefinable attraction that Dorian seemed to be able to exercise whenever he wished, and indeed exercised often without being conscious of it. They had met at Lady Berkshire’s the night that Rubinstein played there, and after that used to be always seen together at the Opera, and wherever good music was going on. For eighteen months their intimacy lasted. Campbell was always either at Selby Royal or in Grosvenor Square. To him, as to many others, Dorian Gray was the type of everything that is wonderful and fascinating in life. Whether or not a quarrel had taken place between them no one ever knew. But suddenly people remarked that they scarcely spoke when they met, and that Campbell seemed always to go away early from any party at which Dorian Gray was present. He had changed, too,— was strangely melancholy at times, appeared almost to dislike hearing music of any passionate character, and would never himself play, giving as his excuse, when he was called upon, that he was so absorbed in science that he had no time left in which to practise. And this was certainly true. Every day he seemed to become more interested in biology, and his name appeared once or twice in some of the scientific reviews, in connection with certain curious experiments.
他是一个非常聪明的年轻人，尽管他对可见的艺术没有真正的鉴赏力，而他所拥有的一点点诗歌之美的感觉​​完全是从多里安那里获得的。他的主要智力热情是科学。在剑桥，他花了很多时间在实验室工作，并在当年的自然科学三项课中取得了很好的成绩。事实上，他仍然致力于化学研究，并拥有自己的实验室，他常常把自己整天关在里面，这让他的母亲非常恼火，她一心想让他竞选议会议员并模糊地认为药剂师是配制处方的人。然而，他也是一位出色的音乐家，小提琴和钢琴弹得比大多数业余爱好者都好。事实上，正是音乐首先让他和道林·格雷走到了一起——音乐和道林·格雷那种难以言表的吸引力，似乎只要他愿意，他就能随时展现出来，而且确实常常在不知不觉中展现出来。他们是在伯克希尔夫人家认识的，那天晚上鲁宾斯坦在那里演出，从那以后，他们经常一起出现在歌剧院以及任何有好音乐的地方。他们的亲密关系持续了十八个月。坎贝尔总是要么在塞尔比皇家，要么在格罗夫纳广场。对他和其他许多人来说，道林·格雷代表着生活中一切美好而迷人的事物。他们之间是否发生过争吵，没有人知道。但突然人们说，他们见面时几乎不说话，而且坎贝尔似乎总是早早地离开道林·格雷参加的任何聚会。 ”已经没有时间练习了。这确实是事实。他似乎对生物学越来越感兴趣，他的名字在一些科学评论中出现了一两次，与某些奇怪的实验有关。

This was the man that Dorian Gray was waiting for, pacing up and down the room, glancing every moment at the clock, and becoming horribly agitated as the minutes went by. At last the door opened, and his servant entered.
这就是道林·格雷正在等待的人，他在房间里来回踱步，每时每刻都在看时钟，随着时间的流逝，他变得非常焦躁。最后门开了，他的仆人走了进来。

‘Mr. Alan Campbell, sir.’
'先生。艾伦·坎贝尔，先生。

A sigh of relief broke from his parched lips, and the color came back to his cheeks.
他干涸的嘴唇发出一声松了一口气，脸颊恢复了血色。

‘Ask him to come in at once, Francis.’
“请他立即进来，弗朗西斯。”

The man bowed, and retired. In a few moments Alan Campbell walked in, looking very stern and rather pale, his pallor being intensified by his coal-black hair and dark eyebrows.
那人鞠了一躬，退了出去。过了一会儿，艾伦·坎贝尔走了进来，看上去非常严肃，脸色苍白，煤黑色的头发和黑色的眉毛使他的苍白更加严重。

‘Alan! this is kind of you. I thank you for coming.’
‘艾伦！你真是太好了。我感谢你的到来。

‘I had intended never to enter your house again, Gray. But you said it was a matter of life and death.’ His voice was hard and cold. He spoke with slow deliberation. There was a look of contempt in the steady searching gaze that he turned on Dorian. He kept his hands in the pockets of his Astrakhan coat, and appeared not to have noticed the gesture with which he had been greeted.
“我本来不想再进你家的，格雷。但你说这是生死攸关的问题。”他的声音严厉而冰冷。他说话时语气缓慢、深思熟虑。他转向多里安的目光中带着一丝蔑视。他双手插在阿斯特拉罕外套的口袋里，似乎没有注意到迎接他的手势。

‘It is a matter of life and death, Alan, and to more than one person. Sit down.’
“艾伦，这事关生死，而且事关不止一个人。坐下。'

Campbell took a chair by the table, and Dorian sat opposite to him. The two men’s eyes met. In Dorian’s there was infinite pity. He knew that what he was going to do was dreadful.
坎贝尔在桌边坐下了一把椅子，多里安坐在他对面。两个人的目光相遇了。多里安的心里充满了无限的怜悯。他知道他要做的事情是可怕的。

After a strained moment of silence, he leaned across and said, very quietly, but watching the effect of each word upon the face of the man he had sent for, ‘Alan, in a locked room at the top of this house, a room to which nobody but myself has access, a dead man is seated at a table. He has been dead ten hours now. Don’t stir, and don’t look at me like that. Who the man is, why he died, how he died, are matters that do not concern you. What you have to do is this—’
一阵紧张的沉默之后，他倾身过去，非常安静地说道，但同时注意着每个词在他派来的那个人脸上的效果，“艾伦，在这栋房子顶层的一间上锁的房间里，一个房间。”除了我自己之外，没有人可以进入，一个死人坐在一张桌子旁。他已经死了十个小时了。别动，也别用那样的眼神看着我。这个人是谁，为什么死，怎么死的，这些都与你无关。你要做的就是——”

‘Stop, Gray. I don’t want to know anything further. Whether what you have told me is true or not true, doesn’t concern me. I entirely decline to be mixed up in your life. Keep your horrible secrets to yourself. They don’t interest me any more.’
“停下来，格雷。我不想知道更多。不管你告诉我的是真是假，与我无关。我完全拒绝介入你的生活。把你可怕的秘密留给自己。我对它们不再感兴趣了。

‘Alan, they will have to interest you. This one will have to interest you. I am awfully sorry for you, Alan. But I can’t help myself. You are the one man who is able to save me. I am forced to bring you into the matter. I have no option. Alan, you are a scientist. You know about chemistry, and things of that kind. You have made experiments. What you have got to do is to destroy the thing that is up-stairs,—to destroy it so that not a vestige will be left of it. Nobody saw this person come into the house. Indeed, at the present moment he is supposed to be in Paris. He will not be missed for months. When he is missed, there must be no trace of him found here. You, Alan, you must change him, and everything that belongs to him, into a handful of ashes that I may scatter in the air.’
“艾伦，他们一定会让你感兴趣。您一定会对这个感兴趣。我为你感到非常抱歉，艾伦。但我无法控制自己。你是唯一一个能够拯救我的人。我被迫把你带入这件事。我别无选择。艾伦，你是一位科学家。你了解化学以及类似的事情。你已经做了实验。你要做的就是毁掉楼上的东西——毁掉它，不留任何痕迹。没有人看到这个人进屋。事实上，目前他应该在巴黎。几个月后人们都不会想念他。当他失踪的时候，这里一定找不到他的踪迹。你，艾伦，你必须把他和属于他的一切都变成一把灰烬，让我撒在空中。

‘You are mad, Dorian.’
“你疯了，多里安。”

‘Ah! I was waiting for you to call me Dorian.’
'啊！我一直在等你叫我多里安。”

‘You are mad, I tell you,—mad to imagine that I would raise a finger to help you, mad to make this monstrous confession. I will have nothing to do with this matter, whatever it is. Do you think I am going to peril my reputation for you? What is it to me what devil’s work you are up to?’
“你疯了，我告诉你，疯狂地想象我会举起一根手指来帮助你，疯狂地做出这个可怕的坦白。不管这件事是什么，我都不会参与其中。你认为我会为了你而拿自己的名誉冒险吗？你到底在搞什么鬼事，关我什么事？

‘It was a suicide, Alan.’
“这是自杀，艾伦。”

‘I am glad of that. But who drove him to it? You, I should fancy.’
‘我对此很高兴。但是谁驱使他这么做的呢？你，我应该喜欢。

‘Do you still refuse to do this, for me?’
“你仍然拒绝为我这样做吗？”

‘Of course I refuse. I will have absolutely nothing to do with it. I don’t care what shame comes on you. You deserve it all. I should not be sorry to see you disgraced, publicly disgraced. How dare you ask me, of all men in the world, to mix myself up in this horror? I should have thought you knew more about people’s characters. Your friend Lord Henry Wotton can’t have taught you much about psychology, whatever else he has taught you. Nothing will induce me to stir a step to help you. You have come to the wrong man. Go to some of your friends. Don’t come to me.’
‘我当然拒绝。我绝对不会与此有任何关系。我不在乎你会受到什么羞辱。你值得这一切。看到你丢脸，公开丢脸，我不应该感到难过。你怎么敢要求我，在世界上所有的人中，把自己卷入这种恐怖之中？我本以为你更了解人的性格。你的朋友亨利·沃顿勋爵不可能教给你太多关于心理学的知识，无论他教过你什么。没有什么会促使我采取行动来帮助你。你找错人了。去找你的一些朋友。别来找我。

‘Alan, it was murder. I killed him. You don’t know what he had made me suffer. Whatever my life is, he had more to do with the making or the marring of it than poor Harry has had. He may not have intended it, the result was the same.’
“艾伦，这是谋杀。我杀了他。你不知道他让我受了什么苦。不管我的生活是什么样的，他对我的生活的形成或破坏的影响比可怜的哈利更多。他可能不是故意的，结果是一样的。

‘Murder! Good God, Dorian, is that what you have come to? I shall not inform upon you. It is not my business. Besides, you are certain to be arrested, without my stirring in the matter. Nobody ever commits a murder without doing something stupid. But I will have nothing to do with it.’
'谋杀！天啊，多里安，你就是这样的吗？我不会通知你。这不关我的事。再说了，不用我插手，你肯定会被逮捕的。没有人会在不做蠢事的情况下犯下谋杀罪。但我不会参与其中。

‘All I ask of you is to perform a certain scientific experiment. You go to hospitals and dead-houses, and the horrors that you do there don’t affect you. If in some hideous dissecting-room or fetid laboratory you found this man lying on a leaden table with red gutters scooped out in it, you would simply look upon him as an admirable subject. You would not turn a hair. You would not believe that you were doing anything wrong. On the contrary, you would probably feel that you were benefiting the human race, or increasing the sum of knowledge in the world, or gratifying intellectual curiosity, or something of that kind. What I want you to do is simply what you have often done before. Indeed, to destroy a body must be less horrible than what you are accustomed to work at. And, remember, it is the only piece of evidence against me. If it is discovered, I am lost; and it is sure to be discovered unless you help me.’
“我对你的要求只是进行一项科学实验。你去医院和死者之家，在那里所做的恐怖不会影响你。如果在某个丑陋的解剖室或恶臭的实验室里，你发现这个人躺在一张铅制桌子上，桌子上有红色的排水沟，你只会把他视为一个令人钦佩的对象。你连一根头发也不会转动。你不会相信你做错了什么。相反，你可能会觉得你正在造福于人类，或者增加了世界上的知识总量，或者满足了求知欲，或者类似的事情。我要你做的只是你以前经常做的事情。事实上，毁坏一具尸体肯定没有你习惯做的事情那么可怕。而且，请记住，这是对我不利的唯一证据。如果被发现了，我就迷失了；除非你帮我，否则它肯定会被发现。”

‘I have no desire to help you. You forget that. I am simply indifferent to the whole thing. It has nothing to do with me.’
‘我无意帮助你。你忘了这一点。我只是对整件事漠不关心。这与我无关。

‘Alan, I entreat you. Think of the position I am in. Just before you came I almost fainted with terror. No! don’t think of that. Look at the matter purely from the scientific point of view. You don’t inquire where the dead things on which you experiment come from. Don’t inquire now. I have told you too much as it is. But I beg of you to do this. We were friends once, Alan.’
‘艾伦，我求你了。想想我现在的处境。就在你来之前，我差点吓得晕过去。不！别想那个。纯粹从科学的角度来看这个问题。你不会询问你所实验的死物来自哪里。现在不要询问。我已经告诉你太多了。但我请求你这样做。我们曾经是朋友，艾伦。”

‘Don’t speak about those days, Dorian: they are dead.’
“不要谈论那些日子，多里安：它们已经死了。”

‘The dead linger sometimes. The man up-stairs will not go away. He is sitting at the table with bowed head and outstretched arms. Alan! Alan! if you don’t come to my assistance I am ruined. Why, they will hang me, Alan! Don’t you understand? They will hang me for what I have done.’
'死者有时会徘徊。楼上的人不会走开。他坐在桌边，低着头，张开双臂。艾伦！艾伦！如果你不来帮助我，我就毁了。为什么，他们会绞死我，艾伦！你不明白吗？他们会因为我的所作所为而绞死我。

‘There is no good in prolonging this scene. I refuse absolutely to do anything in the matter. It is insane of you to ask me.’
‘延长这个场景是没有好处的。我绝对拒绝在这件事上做任何事。你问我真是疯了。

‘You refuse absolutely?’
“你绝对拒绝吗？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

The same look of pity came into Dorian’s eyes, then he stretched out his hand, took a piece of paper, and wrote something on it. He read it over twice, folded it carefully, and pushed it across the table. Having done this, he got up, and went over to the window.
多里安的眼中也浮现出同样的怜悯之色，然后他伸出手，拿起一张纸，在上面写下了一些东西。他读了两遍，小心翼翼地折叠起来，推到桌子对面。做完这些，他起身，走到窗边。

Campbell looked at him in surprise, and then took up the paper, and opened it. As he read it, his face became ghastly pale, and he fell back in his chair. A horrible sense of sickness came over him. He felt as if his heart was beating itself to death in some empty hollow.
坎贝尔惊讶地看着他，然后拿起那张纸，打开了。当他读完这封信时，他的脸色变得惨白，向后靠在椅子上。一种可怕的恶心感袭上他的心头。他感觉自己的心脏仿佛在某个空洞中跳动得要死。

After two or three minutes of terrible silence, Dorian turned round, and came and stood behind him, putting his hand upon his shoulder.
经过两三分钟可怕的沉默后，多里安转过身来，站在他身后，把手搭在他的肩膀上。

‘I am so sorry, Alan,’ he murmured, ‘but you leave me no alternative. I have a letter written already. Here it is. You see the address. If you don’t help me, I must send it. You know what the result will be. But you are going to help me. It is impossible for you to refuse now. I tried to spare you. You will do me the justice to admit that. You were stern, harsh, offensive. You treated me as no man has ever dared to treat me,—no living man, at any rate. I bore it all. Now it is for me to dictate terms.’
“我很抱歉，艾伦，”他低声说道，“但你让我别无选择。”我已经写了一封信。这里是。看到地址就知道了如果你不帮我，我就必须发送。你知道结果会是什么。但你会帮助我的。你现在不可能拒绝。我试图饶过你。你承认这一点就公平地对待我。你严厉、严厉、无礼。你对待我的态度是从来没有人敢对待我的——至少没有一个活着的人敢这样对待我。我承受了这一切。现在轮到我来决定条款了。”

Campbell buried his face in his hands, and a shudder passed through him.
坎贝尔把脸埋在双手中，浑身一阵颤抖。

‘Yes, it is my turn to dictate terms, Alan. You know what they are. The thing is quite simple. Come, don’t work yourself into this fever. The thing has to be done. Face it, and do it.’
“是的，现在轮到我来决定条款了，艾伦。你知道它们是什么。事情很简单。来吧，别让自己陷入这种狂热之中。事情必须要做。面对它，然后去做。

A groan broke from Campbell’s lips, and he shivered all over. The ticking of the clock on the mantel-piece seemed to him to be dividing time into separate atoms of agony, each of which was too terrible to be borne. He felt as if an iron ring was being slowly tightened round his forehead, and as if the disgrace with which he was threatened had already come upon him. The hand upon his shoulder weighed like a hand of lead. It was intolerable. It seemed to crush him.
坎贝尔嘴里发出一声呻吟，他浑身发抖。在他看来，壁炉架上时钟的滴答声似乎把时间分成了不同的痛苦原子，每一个原子都可怕得难以忍受。他感觉自己的额头上仿佛有一枚铁环慢慢地被勒紧，而他所面临的耻辱似乎已经降临到了他身上。放在他肩上的手像铅一样沉重。这是无法忍受的。这似乎压垮了他。

‘Come, Alan, you must decide at once.’
“来吧，艾伦，你必须立即做出决定。”

He hesitated a moment. ‘Is there a fire in the room up-stairs?’ he murmured.
他犹豫了一下。 “楼上的房间着火了吗？”他低声问道。

‘Yes, there is a gas-fire with asbestos.’
“是的，有石棉煤气炉。”

‘I will have to go home and get some things from the laboratory.’
“我得回家去实验室拿一些东西。”

‘No, Alan, you need not leave the house. Write on a sheet of notepaper what you want, and my servant will take a cab and bring the things back to you.’
“不，艾伦，你不需要离开家。把你想要的东西写在一张信纸上，我的仆人会叫出租车把东西还给你。

Campbell wrote a few lines, blotted them, and addressed an envelope to his assistant. Dorian took the note up and read it carefully. Then he rang the bell, and gave it to his valet, with orders to return as soon as possible, and to bring the things with him.
坎贝尔写了几行，擦掉，然后给他的助手写了一个信封。多里安拿起纸条，仔细阅读。然后他按响了门铃，交给了他的男仆，命令他尽快返回，并把东西带上。

When the hall door shut, Campbell started, and, having got up from the chair, went over to the chimney-piece. He was shivering with a sort of ague. For nearly twenty minutes, neither of the men spoke. A fly buzzed noisily about the room, and the ticking of the clock was like the beat of a hammer.
大厅门关上后，坎贝尔吓了一跳，从椅子上站起来，走到烟囱旁。他因疟疾而发抖。将近二十分钟的时间里，两个人都没有说话。一只苍蝇在房间里嗡嗡作响，时钟的滴答声就像锤子的敲击声。

As the chime struck one, Campbell turned around, and, looking at Dorian Gray, saw that his eyes were filled with tears. There was something in the purity and refinement of that sad face that seemed to enrage him. ‘You are infamous, absolutely infamous!’ he muttered.
当铃声响起时，坎贝尔转过身来，看着道林·格雷，发现他的眼里充满了泪水。那张悲伤的面孔纯洁而优雅，似乎激怒了他。 “你臭名昭著，绝对臭名昭著！”他嘀咕道。

‘Hush, Alan: you have saved my life,’ said Dorian.
“嘘，艾伦：你救了我的命，”多里安说。

‘Your life? Good heavens! what a life that is! You have gone from corruption to corruption, and now you have culminated in crime. In doing what I am going to do, what you force me to do, it is not of your life that I am thinking.’
'你的生命？我的妈呀！那是怎样的生活啊！你们从腐败走向腐败，现在你们已经达到了犯罪的顶峰。在做我要做的事、你强迫我做的事时，我所想的并不是你的生活。

‘Ah, Alan,’ murmured Dorian, with a sigh, ‘I wish you had a thousandth part of the pity for me that I have for you.’ He turned away, as he spoke, and stood looking out at the garden. Campbell made no answer.
“啊，艾伦，”多里安叹了口气，低声说，“我希望你对我的怜悯能有我对你的怜悯的千分之一。”说着，他转过身去，站在那儿望着花园。坎贝尔没有回答。

After about ten minutes a knock came to the door, and the servant entered, carrying a mahogany chest of chemicals, with a small electric battery set on top of it. He placed it on the table, and went out again, returning with a long coil of steel and platinum wire and two rather curiously-shaped iron clamps.
大约十分钟后，有人敲门，仆人进来了，手里提着一个桃花心木箱子，里面装着化学品，上面放着一个小电池。他把它放在桌子上，然后又出去了，回来时带着一长串钢丝和铂丝，还有两个形状相当奇怪的铁夹子。

‘Shall I leave the things here, sir?’ he asked Campbell.
“我可以把东西留在这里吗，先生？”他问坎贝尔。

‘Yes,’ said Dorian. ‘And I am afraid, Francis, that I have another errand for you. What is the name of the man at Richmond who supplies Selby with orchids?’
“是的，”多里安说。 “弗朗西斯，恐怕我还有另一件事要交给你。”里士满向塞尔比供应兰花的那个人叫什么名字？

‘Harden, sir.’
“哈登，长官。”

‘Yes,—Harden. You must go down to Richmond at once, see Harden personally, and tell him to send twice as many orchids as I ordered, and to have as few white ones as possible. In fact, I don’t want any white ones. It is a lovely day, Francis, and Richmond is a very pretty place, otherwise I wouldn’t bother you about it.’
“是的，——哈登。你必须立即去里士满，亲自见哈登，告诉他送来的兰花数量是我订购的两倍，并且白色的兰花尽可能少。事实上，我不想要任何白色的。这是美好的一天，弗朗西斯，里士满是一个非常漂亮的地方，否则我不会打扰你。”

‘No trouble, sir. At what time shall I be back?’
“没问题，先生。我什么时候回来？

Dorian looked at Campbell. ‘How long will your experiment take, Alan?’ he said, in a calm, indifferent voice. The presence of a third person in the room seemed to give him extraordinary courage.
多里安看着坎贝尔。 “你的实验需要多长时间，艾伦？”他用平静、冷漠的声音说道。房间里出现第三个人，似乎给了他非凡的勇气。

Campbell frowned, and bit his lip. ‘It will take about five hours,’ he answered.
坎贝尔皱起眉头，咬着嘴唇。 “大约需要五个小时，”他回答道。

‘It will be time enough, then, if you are back at half-past seven, Francis. Or stay: just leave my things out for dressing. You can have the evening to yourself. I am not dining at home, so I shall not want you.’
“那么，如果你七点半回来的话，时间就足够了，弗朗西斯。或者留下来：把我的东西留下来穿。您可以独处一晚。我不在家吃饭，所以我不需要你。”

‘Thank you, sir,’ said the man, leaving the room.
“谢谢您，先生。”那人说完就离开了房间。

‘Now, Alan, there is not a moment to be lost. How heavy this chest is! I’ll take it for you. You bring the other things.’ He spoke rapidly, and in an authoritative manner. Campbell felt dominated by him. They left the room together.
“现在，艾伦，一刻也不能浪费。”这胸膛有多重啊！我替你拿。你把其他东西带来。”他语速很快，语气很权威。坎贝尔感觉自己被他控制了。他们一起离开了房间。

When they reached the top landing, Dorian took out the key and turned it in the lock. Then he stopped, and a troubled look came into his eyes. He shuddered. ‘I don’t think I can go in, Alan,’ he murmured.
当他们到达顶层平台时，多里安拿出钥匙，插进锁里。然后他停了下来，眼中露出了不安的神色。他浑身发抖。 “我想我不能进去，艾伦，”他低声说道。

‘It is nothing to me. I don’t require you,’ said Campbell, coldly.
‘这对我来说没什么。我不需要你。”坎贝尔冷冷地说。

Dorian half opened the door. As he did so, he saw the face of the portrait grinning in the sunlight. On the floor in front of it the torn curtain was lying. He remembered that the night before, for the first time in his life, he had forgotten to hide it, when he crept out of the room.
多里安半开着门。当他这样做时，他看到肖像的脸在阳光下咧着嘴笑。门前的地板上躺着撕破的窗帘。他记得前一天晚上，当他蹑手蹑脚地走出房间时，他有生以来第一次忘记把它藏起来。

But what was that loathsome red dew that gleamed, wet and glistening, on one of the hands, as though the canvas had sweated blood? How horrible it was!—more horrible, it seemed to him for the moment, than the silent thing that he knew was stretched across the table, the thing whose grotesque misshapen shadow on the spotted carpet showed him that it had not stirred, but was still there, as he had left it.
但是，一只手上那颗令人厌恶的红色露珠，湿漉漉的，闪闪发光，仿佛画布上沾满了血迹，那是什么？多么可怕啊！——此刻，在他看来，这比他所知道的那个沉默的东西横亘在桌子上更可怕，那个东西在斑点地毯上的怪诞畸形的影子向他表明它并没有动，而是在动。仍然在那里，就像他离开时一样。

He opened the door a little wider, and walked quickly in, with halfclosed eyes and averted head, determined that he would not look even once upon the dead man. Then, stooping down, and taking up the goldand-purple hanging, he flung it over the picture.
他把门开大一点，快步走了进去，半闭着眼睛，侧过头，决不再看死者一眼。然后，他弯下腰，拿起金色和紫色的垂饰，把它扔到了画上。

He stopped, feeling afraid to turn round, and his eyes fixed themselves on the intricacies of the pattern before him. He heard Campbell bringing in the heavy chest, and the irons, and the other things that he had required for his dreadful work. He began to wonder if he and Basil Hallward had ever met, and, if so, what they had thought of each other.
他停了下来，不敢转身，眼睛盯着面前错综复杂的图案。他听到坎贝尔把沉重的箱子、熨斗和其他他完成这项可怕工作所需的东西搬了进来。他开始想知道他和巴兹尔·霍华德是否见过面，如果认识的话，他们对彼此的看法如何。

‘Leave me now,’ said Campbell.
“现在离开我，”坎贝尔说。

He turned and hurried out, just conscious that the dead man had been thrust back into the chair and was sitting up in it, with Campbell gazing into the glistening yellow face. As he was going downstairs he heard the key being turned in the lock.
他转身急忙出去，才意识到死者已被推回到椅子上，并在里面坐了起来，坎贝尔凝视着那张闪闪发光的黄色脸。当他下楼的时候，他听到钥匙在锁里转动的声音。

It was long after seven o’clock when Campbell came back into the library. He was pale, but absolutely calm. ‘I have done what you asked me to do,’ he muttered. ‘And now, good-by. Let us never see each other again.’
坎贝尔回到图书馆时已经七点多了。他脸色苍白，但绝对平静。 “我已经做了你让我做的事，”他低声说道。 ‘现在，再见。让我们再也见不到对方吧。

‘You have saved me from ruin, Alan. I cannot forget that,’ said Dorian, simply.
“你把我从毁灭中拯救出来，艾伦。我不能忘记这一点，”多里安简单地说。

As soon as Campbell had left, he went up-stairs. There was a horrible smell of chemicals in the room. But the thing that had been sitting at the table was gone.
坎贝尔一走，他就上楼了。房间里有一股难闻的化学品气味。但原本放在桌子上的东西却不见了。

Chapter XIII
第十三章

‘There is no good telling me you are going to be good, Dorian,’ cried Lord Henry, dipping his white fingers into a red coppwwwer bowl filled with rose-water. ‘You are quite perfect. Pray don’t change.’
“告诉我你会做好事是没有用的，多里安，”亨利勋爵喊​​道，将他白皙的手指浸入盛满玫瑰水的红色铜碗中。 ‘你真是太完美了。祈祷不要改变。

Dorian shook his head. ‘No, Harry, I have done too many dreadful things in my life. I am not going to do any more. I began my good actions yesterday.’
多里安摇了摇头。 “不，哈利，我一生中做过太多可怕的事情。我不会再做任何事了。我昨天开始了我的善行。”

‘Where were you yesterday?’
'你昨天在哪里？'

‘In the country, Harry. I was staying at a little inn by myself.’
“在乡下，哈利。我一个人住在一家小旅馆里。

‘My dear boy,’ said Lord Henry smiling, ‘anybody can be good in the country. There are no temptations there. That is the reason why people who live out of town are so uncivilized. There are only two ways, as you know, of becoming civilized. One is by being cultured, the other is by being corrupt. Country-people have no opportunity of being either, so they stagnate.’
“我亲爱的孩子，”亨利勋爵微笑着说道，“在这个国家，任何人都可以成为好人。”那里没有诱惑。这就是为什么住在城外的人如此不文明的原因。如你所知，要变得文明只有两种方法。一是有文化，二是腐败。乡下人也没有机会成为这两者，所以他们停滞不前。

‘Culture and corruption,’ murmured Dorian. ‘I have known something of both. It seems to me curious now that they should ever be found together. For I have a new ideal, Harry. I am going to alter. I think I have altered.’
“文化与腐败，”多里安低声说道。 “我对两者都有所了解。现在我觉得很好奇，他们竟然会被发现在一起。因为我有了新的理想，哈利。我要改变。我想我已经改变了。

‘You have not told me yet what your good action was. Or did you say you had done more than one?’
‘你还没告诉我你的善行是什么。或者你说你做了不止一件？

‘I can tell you, Harry. It is not a story I could tell to any one else. I spared somebody. It sounds vain, but you understand what I mean. She was quite beautiful, and wonderfully like Sibyl Vane. I think it was that which first attracted me to her. You remember Sibyl, don’t you? How long ago that seems! Well, Hetty was not one of our own class, of course. She was simply a girl in a village. But I really loved her. I am quite sure that I loved her. All during this wonderful May that we have been having, I used to run down and see her two or three times a week. Yesterday she met me in a little orchard. The apple-blossoms kept tumbling down on her hair, and she was laughing. We were to have gone away together this morning at dawn. Suddenly I determined to leave her as flower-like as I had found her.’
“我可以告诉你，哈利。这不是一个我可以告诉别人的故事。我饶恕了某人。听起来很虚无，但你明白我的意思。她非常漂亮，而且非常像西比尔·文。我认为这是她首先吸引我的地方。你还记得西比尔，不是吗？那似乎是多久以前的事了！嗯，当然，海蒂不是我们班的一员。她只是一个村里的女孩。但我真的很爱她。我非常确定我爱她。在我们度过的这个美好的五月里，我每周都会跑去看她两三次。昨天她在一个小果园里遇见了我。苹果花不断地落在她的头发上，她在笑。我们本来要在今天早上一起出发的。突然间，我决定让她像我遇见她时一样，像花朵一样离开。”

‘I should think the novelty of the emotion must have given you a thrill of real pleasure, Dorian,’ interrupted Lord Henry. ‘But I can finish your idyl for you. You gave her good advice, and broke her heart. That was the beginning of your reformation.’
“我认为这种新奇的情感一定给你带来了真正快乐的快感，多里安，”亨利勋爵打断道。 “但我可以为你完成你的田园诗。你给了她很好的建议，伤了她的心。这就是你改革的开始。

‘Harry, you are horrible! You mustn’t say these dreadful things. Hetty’s heart is not broken. Of course she cried, and all that. But there is no disgrace upon her. She can live, like Perdita, in her garden.’
‘哈利，你太可怕了！你不可以说这些可怕的话。海蒂的心并没有破碎。当然她哭了，诸如此类。但她身上没有任何耻辱。她可以像佩迪塔一样生活在她的花园里。

‘And weep over a faithless Florizel,’ said Lord Henry, laughing. ‘My dear Dorian, you have the most curious boyish moods. Do you think this girl will ever be really contented now with any one of her own rank? I suppose she will be married some day to a rough carter or a grinning ploughman. Well, having met you, and loved you, will teach her to despise her husband, and she will be wretched. From a moral point of view I really don’t think much of your great renunciation. Even as a beginning, it is poor. Besides, how do you know that Hetty isn’t floating at the present moment in some mill-pond, with water-lilies round her, like Ophelia?’
“为一个不忠的弗洛里泽尔哭泣，”亨利勋爵笑着说。 “我亲爱的多里安，你有着最好奇的孩子气。你认为这个女孩现在会对自己的地位感到真正满意吗？我想她有一天会嫁给一个粗鲁的卡特或一个咧着嘴笑的农夫。好吧，认识了你，爱了你，就会教她鄙视她的丈夫，她就会很可怜。从道德的角度来看，我真的不太看重你的伟大出家。即使作为一个开始，它也很糟糕。此外，你怎么知道海蒂现在不是像奥菲莉亚那样漂浮在某个磨坊池塘里，周围环绕着睡莲？

‘I can’t bear this, Harry! You mock at everything, and then suggest the most serious tragedies. I am sorry I told you now. I don’t care what you say to me, I know I was right in acting as I did. Poor Hetty! As I rode past the farm this morning, I saw her white face at the window, like a spray of jasmine. Don’t let me talk about it any more, and don’t try to persuade me that the first good action I have done for years, the first little bit of self-sacrifice I have ever known, is really a sort of sin. I want to be better. I am going to be better. Tell me something about yourself. What is going on in town? I have not been to the club for days.’
“我无法忍受这个，哈利！你嘲笑一切，然后提出最严重的悲剧。很抱歉我现在才告诉你。我不在乎你对我说什么，我知道我的做法是对的。可怜的海蒂！今天早上，当我骑车经过农场时，我看到窗外她那张苍白的脸，像一朵茉莉花。不要让我再谈论它，也不要试图说服我，多年来我所做的第一个善行，我所知道的第一个自我牺牲，实际上是一种罪恶。我想变得更好。我会变得更好。告诉我一些你的事吧。城里发生了什么事？我已经好几天没去俱乐部了。”

‘The people are still discussing poor Basil’s disappearance.’
“人们仍在讨论可怜的巴兹尔的失踪。”

‘I should have thought they had got tired of that by this time,’ said Dorian, pouring himself out some wine, and frowning slightly.
“我本以为他们现在已经厌倦了，”多里安一边说，一边给自己倒了一些酒，微微皱着眉头。

‘My dear boy, they have only been talking about it for six weeks, and the public are really not equal to the mental strain of having more than one topic every three months. They have been very fortunate lately, however. They have had my own divorce-case, and Alan Campbell’s suicide. Now they have got the mysterious disappearance of an artist. Scotland Yard still insists that the man in the gray ulster who left Victoria by the midnight train on the 7th of November was poor Basil, and the French police declare that Basil never arrived in Paris at all. I suppose in about a fortnight we will be told that he has been seen in San Francisco. It is an odd thing, but every one who disappears is said to be seen at San Francisco. It must be a delightful city, and possess all the attractions of the next world.’
‘我亲爱的孩子，他们只谈论了六个星期，公众确实无法承受每三个月就有一个以上话题的精神压力。不过，他们最近非常幸运。他们有我自己的离婚案，还有艾伦·坎贝尔的自杀案。现在他们得到了一位艺术家的神秘失踪。苏格兰场仍然坚持认为，11 月 7 日乘坐午夜火车离开维多利亚的灰色阿尔斯特衫男子就是可怜的巴兹尔，而法国警方则宣称巴兹尔根本没有抵达巴黎。我想大约两周后我们就会被告知有人在旧金山看到他。这很奇怪，但据说每一个失踪的人都在旧金山被发现。它一定是一座令人愉快的城市，拥有下一个世界的所有吸引力。”

‘What do you think has happened to Basil?’ asked Dorian, holding up his Burgundy against the light, and wondering how it was that he could discuss the matter so calmly.
“你认为巴兹尔出了什么事？”多里安问道，他在灯光下举起他的勃艮第葡萄酒，想知道他怎么能如此平静地讨论这件事。

‘I have not the slightest idea. If Basil chooses to hide himself, it is no business of mine. If he is dead, I don’t want to think about him. Death is the only thing that ever terrifies me. I hate it. One can survive everything nowadays except that. Death and vulgarity are the only two facts in the nineteenth century that one cannot explain away. Let us have our coffee in the music-room, Dorian. You must play Chopin to me. The man with whom my wife ran away played Chopin exquisitely. Poor Victoria! I was very fond of her. The house is rather lonely without her.’
‘我一点也不知道。如果巴兹尔选择隐藏自己，那不关我的事。如果他死了，我不想再想起他。死亡是唯一让我恐惧的事情。我恨它。如今，除了这一点之外，人们可以生存一切。死亡和粗俗是十九世纪唯一两个无法解释的事实。多里安，我们去音乐室喝咖啡吧。你必须给我弹奏肖邦。和我妻子私奔的那个男人演奏的肖邦演奏得非常出色。可怜的维多利亚！我非常喜欢她。没有她，这个房子相当孤独。

Dorian said nothing, but rose from the table, and, passing into the next room, sat down to the piano and let his fingers stray across the keys. After the coffee had been brought in, he stopped, and, looking over at Lord Henry, said, ‘Harry, did it ever occur to you that Basil was murdered?’
多里安什么也没说，只是从桌子上站起来，走进隔壁房间，坐在钢琴前，让手指在琴键上徘徊。咖啡送进来后，他停了下来，看着亨利勋爵，说道：“哈利，你有没有想过巴兹尔是被谋杀的？”

Lord Henry yawned. ‘Basil had no enemies, and always wore a Waterbury watch. Why should he be murdered? He was not clever enough to have enemies. Of course he had a wonderful genius for painting. But a man can paint like Velasquez and yet be as dull as possible. Basil was really rather dull. He only interested me once, and that was when he told me, years ago, that he had a wild adoration for you.’
亨利勋爵打了个哈欠。 “巴兹尔没有敌人，而且总是戴着一块沃特伯里手表。为什么他应该被谋杀？他不够聪明，不会有敌人。当然，他有惊人的绘画天赋。但一个人可以像委拉斯开兹一样画画，但又尽可能地平淡。巴兹尔实在是太迟钝了。他只让我感兴趣一次，那是几年前他告诉我他对你有一种狂热的崇拜。

‘I was very fond of Basil,’ said Dorian, with a sad look in his eyes. ‘But don’t people say that he was murdered?’
“我非常喜欢巴兹尔，”多里安说道，眼中带着悲伤。 “但是人们不是说他是被谋杀的吗？”

‘Oh, some of the papers do. It does not seem to be probable. I know there are dreadful places in Paris, but Basil was not the sort of man to have gone to them. He had no curiosity. It was his chief defect. Play me a nocturne, Dorian, and, as you play, tell me, in a low voice, how you have kept your youth. You must have some secret. I am only ten years older than you are, and I am wrinkled, and bald, and yellow. You are really wonderful, Dorian. You have never looked more charming than you do to-night. You remind me of the day I saw you first. You were rather cheeky, very shy, and absolutely extraordinary. You have changed, of course, but not in appearance. I wish you would tell me your secret. To get back my youth I would do anything in the world, except take exercise, get up early, or be respectable. Youth! There is nothing like it. It’s absurd to talk of the ignorance of youth. The only people whose opinions I listen to now with any respect are people much younger than myself. They seem in front of me. Life has revealed to them her last wonder. As for the aged, I always contradict the aged. I do it on principle. If you ask them their opinion on something that happened yesterday, they solemnly give you the opinions current in 1820, when people wore high stocks and knew absolutely nothing. How lovely that thing you are playing is! I wonder did Chopin write it at Majorca, with the sea weeping round the villa, and the salt spray dashing against the panes? It is marvelously romantic. What a blessing it is that there is one art left to us that is not imitative! Don’t stop. I want music to-night. It seems to me that you are the young Apollo, and that I am Marsyas listening to you. I have sorrows, Dorian, of my own, that even you know nothing of. The tragedy of old age is not that one is old, but that one is young. I am amazed sometimes at my own sincerity. Ah, Dorian, how happy you are! What an exquisite life you have had! You have drunk deeply of everything. You have crushed the grapes against your palate. Nothing has been hidden from you. But it has all been to you no more than the sound of music. It has not marred you. You are still the same.
“哦，有些报纸确实如此。这似乎不太可能。我知道巴黎有一些可怕的地方，但巴兹尔不是那种会去那里的人。他没有好奇心。这是他的主要缺点。多里安，给我弹一首夜曲，一边弹，一边低声告诉我，你是如何保持青春的。你一定有什么秘密。我只比你大十岁，满脸皱纹，秃顶，脸黄。你真的很棒，多里安。你从来没有像今晚这样显得如此迷人。你让我想起了我第一次见到你的那一天。你相当厚脸皮，非常害羞，而且绝对非凡。当然，你变了，但外表没有变。我希望你能告诉我你的秘密。为了找回青春，我愿意做任何事，除了锻炼、早起或受人尊敬。青年！没什么东西跟它一样了。谈论年轻人的无知是荒谬的。我现在唯一尊重地听取意见的人是比我年轻得多的人。他们似乎就在我面前。生活向他们揭示了她最后的奇迹。至于老人，我总是反驳老人。我是按原则做的。如果你问他们对昨天发生的事情的看法，他们会郑重地告诉你1820年流行的观点，当时人们戴着高高的股票，一无所知。你玩的那个东西多可爱啊！我想知道肖邦是在马略卡岛写下这首歌的吗？当时大海在别墅周围哭泣，盐雾冲刷着玻璃？这是非常浪漫的。能有一种不模仿的艺术留给我们，是多么幸运的事情啊！不要停下来。今晚我想要音乐。在我看来，你是年轻的阿波罗，而我是听你讲话的玛尔绪亚斯。多里安，我也有我自己的悲伤，连你也一无所知。 晚年的悲剧不在于人老了，而在于人还年轻。有时我对自己的真诚感到惊讶。啊，多里安，你多么幸福啊！你过着多么精致的生活啊！你已经深深地喝醉了一切。你已经把葡萄压碎了。没有什么事情瞒着你。但对你而言，这一切只不过是音乐之声。它并没有损害你。你还是一样。

‘I wonder what the rest of your life will be. Don’t spoil it by renunciations. At present you are a perfect type. Don’t make yourself incomplete. You are quite flawless now. You need not shake your head: you know you are. Besides, Dorian, don’t deceive yourself. Life is not governed by will or intention. Life is a question of nerves, and fibres, and slowly-built-up cells in which thought hides itself and passion has its dreams. You may fancy yourself safe, and think yourself strong. But a chance tone of color in a room or a morning sky, a particular perfume that you had once loved and that brings strange memories with it, a line from a forgotten poem that you had come across again, a cadence from a piece of music that you had ceased to play,—I tell you, Dorian, that it is on things like these that our lives depend. Browning writes about that somewhere; but our own senses will imagine them for us. There are moments when the odor of heliotrope passes suddenly across me, and I have to live the strangest year of my life over again.
‘我想知道你的余生会怎样。不要因放弃而破坏它。目前你是一个完美的类型。不要让自己变得不完整。你现在已经非常完美了。你不必摇头：你知道你就是这样。另外，多里安，别欺骗自己了。生命不受意志或意图的支配。生命是神经、纤维和慢慢形成的细胞的问题，思想隐藏在其中，激情拥有它的梦想。你可能认为自己很安全，并且认为自己很坚强。但是房间或早晨天空中偶然出现的色调，你曾经喜欢过的一种特殊的香水，它带来了奇怪的回忆，你再次遇到的一首被遗忘的诗中的一句歌词，一首音乐的节奏你已经停止演奏了——我告诉你，多里安，我们的生命依赖于这样的事情。布朗宁在某处写到了这一点；但我们自己的感官会为我们想象它们。有时，天芥菜的气味突然传遍我的全身，我不得不重新度过一生中最奇怪的一年。

‘I wish I could change places with you, Dorian. The world has cried out against us both, but it has always worshipped you. It always will worship you. You are the type of what the age is searching for, and what it is afraid it has found. I am so glad that you have never done anything, never carved a statue, or painted a picture, or produced anything outside of yourself! Life has been your art. You have set yourself to music. Your days have been your sonnets.’
“我希望能和你交换位置，多里安。世界曾大声疾呼反对我们俩，但它却一直崇拜你们。它永远会崇拜你。你是这个时代正在寻找的类型，也是它害怕发现的类型。我很高兴你从来没有做过任何事，从来没有雕刻过雕像，没有画过一幅画，或者生产过任何你以外的东西！生活一直是你的艺术。你已将自己置于音乐之中。你的日子就是你的十四行诗。

Dorian rose up from the piano, and passed his hand through his hair. ‘Yes, life has been exquisite,’ he murmured, ‘but I am not going to have the same life, Harry. And you must not say these extravagant things to me. You don’t know everything about me. I think that if you did, even you would turn from me. You laugh. Don’t laugh.’
多里安从钢琴上站起来，用手梳理头发。 “是的，生活很精致，”他低声说道，“但我不会再过同样的生活了，哈利。而且你不许对我说这些奢侈的话。你并不了解我的一切。我想如果你这样做了，连你也会离开我。你笑。别笑。

‘Why have you stopped playing, Dorian? Go back and play the nocturne over again. Look at that great honey-colored moon that hangs in the dusky air. She is waiting for you to charm her, and if you play she will come closer to the earth. You won’t? Let us go to the club, then. It has been a charming evening, and we must end it charmingly. There is some one at the club who wants immensely to know you,—young Lord Poole, Bournmouth’s eldest son. He has already copied your neckties, and has begged me to introduce him to you. He is quite delightful, and rather reminds me of you.’
“你为什么不再玩了，多里安？返回并重新演奏夜曲。看看那悬挂在昏暗空气中的蜂蜜色月亮。她正在等待你去迷惑她，如果你玩，她就会离地球更近。你不会吗？那么我们去俱乐部吧。这是一个迷人的夜晚，我们必须迷人地结束它。俱乐部里有一个人非常想了解你，那就是年轻的普尔勋爵，伯恩茅斯的长子。他已经复制了你的领带，并求我把他介绍给你。他很令人愉快，而且让我想起了你。”

‘I hope not,’ said Dorian, with a touch of pathos in his voice. ‘But I am tired to-night, Harry. I won’t go to the club. It is nearly eleven, and I want to go to bed early.’
“我希望不会，”多里安说道，声音里带着一丝悲伤。 “但是我今晚很累，哈利。我不会去俱乐部。已经快十一点了，我想早点睡觉。”

‘Do stay. You have never played so well as to-night. There was something in your touch that was wonderful. It had more expression than I had ever heard from it before.’
‘留下来吧。你从来没有像今晚打得这么好。你的触摸有一些美妙的东西。它的表达比我以前听到的要丰富。”

‘It is because I am going to be good,’ he answered, smiling. ‘I am a little changed already.’
“因为我会表现出色，”他微笑着回答。 “我已经有点改变了。”

‘Don’t change, Dorian; at any rate, don’t change to me. We must always be friends.’
“不要改变，多里安；无论如何，不​​要改变我。我们必须永远是朋友。

‘Yet you poisoned me with a book once. I should not forgive that. Harry, promise me that you will never lend that book to any one. It does harm.’
‘可是你曾经用一本书给我下了毒。我不应该原谅这一点。哈利，向我保证你永远不会把那本书借给任何人。它确实有害。

‘My dear boy, you are really beginning to moralize. You will soon be going about warning people against all the sins of which you have grown tired. You are much too delightful to do that. Besides, it is no use. You and I are what we are, and will be what we will be. Come round tomorrow. I am going to ride at eleven, and we might go together. The Park is quite lovely now. I don’t think there have been such lilacs since the year I met you.’
‘我亲爱的孩子，你真的开始说教了。你很快就会开始警告人们不要犯下你已经厌倦的所有罪恶。你太高兴了，不肯这样做。除此之外，没有什么用。你和我就是我们现在的样子，也将成为我们将来的样子。明天过来吧。我打算十一点去骑马，我们可以一起去。公园现在很漂亮。我想自从我遇见你那年起，就再没有出现过这样的丁香花了。”

‘Very well. I will be here at eleven,’ said Dorian. ‘Good-night, Harry.’ As he reached the door he hesitated for a moment, as if he had something more to say. Then he sighed and went out.
'很好。我会十一点到这里，”多里安说。 “晚安，哈利。”当他走到门口时，他犹豫了一会儿，好像还有什么话要说。然后他叹了口气，走了出去。

It was a lovely night, so warm that he threw his coat over his arm, and did not even put his silk scarf round his throat. As he strolled home, smoking his cigarette, two young men in evening dress passed him. He heard one of them whisper to the other, ‘That is Dorian Gray.’ He remembered how pleased he used to be when he was pointed out, or stared at, or talked about. He was tired of hearing his own name now. Half the charm of the little village where he had been so often lately was that no one knew who he was. He had told the girl whom he had made love him that he was poor, and she had believed him. He had told her once that he was wicked, and she had laughed at him, and told him that wicked people were always very old and very ugly. What a laugh she had!—just like a thrush singing. And how pretty she had been in her cotton dresses and her large hats! She knew nothing, but she had everything that he had lost.
这是一个美好的夜晚，温暖得他把外套披在胳膊上，甚至没有把丝巾围在脖子上。当他一边抽烟一边漫步回家时，两个穿着晚礼服的年轻人从他身边经过。他听到其中一个人对另一个人耳语：“那是道林·格雷。”他记得当他被指出、盯着、或谈论时，他是多么高兴。他现在已经厌倦了听到自己的名字。他最近常去的那个小村庄的一半魅力在于没人知道他是谁。他告诉他所爱的女孩他很穷，她相信了他。有一次他告诉她他很邪恶，她嘲笑他，并告诉他邪恶的人总是很老很丑。她笑得多么开心啊！——就像画眉鸟在唱歌一样。她穿着棉质连衣裙，戴着大帽子，多么漂亮啊！她什么都不知道，但她却拥有他失去的一切。

When he reached home, he found his servant waiting up for him. He sent him to bed, and threw himself down on the sofa in the library, and began to think over some of the things that Lord Henry had said to him.
当他回到家时，他发现仆人正在等他。他送他上床睡觉，然后倒在图书馆的沙发上，开始思考亨利勋爵对他说过的一些话。

Was it really true that one could never change? He felt a wild longing for the unstained purity of his boyhood,—his rose-white boyhood, as Lord Henry had once called it. He knew that he had tarnished himself, filled his mind with corruption, and given horror to his fancy; that he had been an evil influence to others, and had experienced a terrible joy in being so; and that of the lives that had crossed his own it had been the fairest and the most full of promise that he had brought to shame. But was it all irretrievable? Was there no hope for him?
人真的永远无法改变吗？他对他的童年的纯洁无瑕感到一种疯狂的渴望——他的玫瑰白色的童年，正如亨利勋爵曾经所说的那样。他知道他玷污了自己，让他的思想充满了腐败，让他的幻想变得恐怖。他对别人产生了邪恶的影响，并因此而体验到了可怕的快乐；在他自己的一生中，这是最公平、最充满希望的，但他却让他蒙羞了。但这一切就已经无法挽回了吗？他就没有希望了吗？

It was better not to think of the past. Nothing could alter that. It was of himself, and of his own future, that he had to think. Alan Campbell had shot himself one night in his laboratory, but had not revealed the secret that he had been forced to know. The excitement, such as it was, over Basil Hallward’s disappearance would soon pass away. It was already waning. He was perfectly safe there. Nor, indeed, was it the death of Basil Hallward that weighed most upon his mind. It was the living death of his own soul that troubled him. Basil had painted the portrait that had marred his life. He could not forgive him that. It was the portrait that had done everything. Basil had said things to him that were unbearable, and that he had yet borne with patience. The murder had been simply the madness of a moment. As for Alan Campbell, his suicide had been his own act. He had chosen to do it. It was nothing to him.
过去的事最好不要想。没有什么可以改变这一点。他必须考虑的是他自己，以及他自己的未来。一天晚上，艾伦·坎贝尔在实验室开枪自杀，但没有透露他被迫知道的秘密。巴兹尔·霍华德失踪带来的兴奋很快就会过去。它已经减弱了。他在那里非常安全。事实上，最让他心神沉重的也不是巴兹尔·霍尔沃德的死。困扰他的是他自己灵魂的生死存亡。巴兹尔画的这幅肖像毁了他的生活。他无法原谅他。正是这幅肖像完成了一切。巴兹尔对他说了一些难以忍受的话，但他还是耐心地忍受了。这起谋杀案只是一时的疯狂而已。至于艾伦·坎贝尔，他的自杀是他自己的行为。他选择这么做。这对他来说不算什么。

A new life! That was what he wanted. That was what he was waiting for. Surely he had begun it already. He had spared one innocent thing, at any rate. He would never again tempt innocence. He would be good.
新生活！这就是他想要的。这就是他所等待的。他肯定已经开始了。无论如何，他饶恕了一件无辜的事情。他再也不会诱惑无辜者了。他会很好的。

As he thought of Hetty Merton, he began to wonder if the portrait in the locked room had changed. Surely it was not still so horrible as it had been? Perhaps if his life became pure, he would be able to expel every sign of evil passion from the face. Perhaps the signs of evil had already gone away. He would go and look.
当他想到海蒂·默顿时，他开始怀疑锁着的房间里的肖像是否已经改变了。肯定还没有以前那么可怕吧？或许，如果他的生活变得纯洁，他就能从脸上除去一切邪恶的激情。也许邪恶的迹象已经消失了。他会去看看。

He took the lamp from the table and crept up-stairs. As he unlocked the door, a smile of joy flitted across his young face and lingered for a moment about his lips. Yes, he would be good, and the hideous thing that he had hidden away would no longer be a terror to him. He felt as if the load had been lifted from him already.
他从桌上拿起灯，蹑手蹑脚地上楼。当他打开门时，一抹喜悦的微笑掠过他年轻的脸上，并在他的嘴唇上停留了一会儿。是的，他会很好的，他藏起来的那个可怕的东西将不再让他感到恐惧。他感觉好像身上的担子已经被卸下了。

He went in quietly, locking the door behind him, as was his custom, and dragged the purple hanging from the portrait. A cry of pain and indignation broke from him. He could see no change, unless that in the eyes there was a look of cunning, and in the mouth the curved wrinkle of the hypocrite. The thing was still loathsome,—more loathsome, if possible, than before,—and the scarlet dew that spotted the hand seemed brighter, and more like blood newly spilt.
他悄悄地走进去，按照他的习惯锁上门，然后拖走了肖像上悬挂的紫色。他发出一声痛苦而愤怒的叫喊。他看不出有任何变化，除非眼睛里流露出狡诈的神情，嘴里流露出伪善者的弯曲皱纹。那东西仍然令人厌恶——如果可能的话，比以前更令人厌恶——而沾在手上的猩红露珠似乎更明亮，更像是新喷出的鲜血。

Had it been merely vanity that had made him do his one good deed? Or the desire of a new sensation, as Lord Henry had hinted, with his mocking laugh? Or that passion to act a part that sometimes makes us do things finer than we are ourselves? Or, perhaps, all these?
难道仅仅是虚荣心促使他做了一件好事吗？或者正如亨利勋爵嘲笑的笑声所暗示的那样，渴望一种新的感觉？或者是那种扮演角色的热情有时会让我们把事情做得比我们自己更好？或者，也许，所有这些？

Why was the red stain larger than it had been? It seemed to have crept like a horrible disease over the wrinkled fingers. There was blood on the painted feet, as though the thing had dripped,—blood even on the hand that had not held the knife.
为什么红色污点比原来更大了？它似乎像一种可怕的疾病一样爬上了布满皱纹的手指。画好的脚上有血，就好像那东西滴下来一样，甚至没有拿刀的手上也有血。

Confess? Did it mean that he was to confess? To give himself up, and be put to death? He laughed. He felt that the idea was monstrous. Besides, who would believe him, even if he did confess? There was no trace of the murdered man anywhere. Everything belonging to him had been destroyed. He himself had burned what had been below-stairs. The world would simply say he was mad. They would shut him up if he persisted in his story.
承认？这是要承认的意思吗？自首并被处死？他笑了。他觉得这个想法太可怕了。再说了，就算他承认了，谁会相信他呢？到处都没有被谋杀者的踪迹。属于他的一切都被毁掉了。他本人烧毁了楼下的东西。全世界都会说他疯了。如果他坚持讲他的故事，他们就会让他闭嘴。

Yet it was his duty to confess, to suffer public shame, and to make public atonement. There was a God who called upon men to tell their sins to earth as well as to heaven. Nothing that he could do would cleanse him till he had told his own sin. His sin? He shrugged his shoulders. The death of Basil Hallward seemed very little to him. He was thinking of Hetty Merton.
然而，他有责任认罪、承受公开羞辱、公开赎罪。有一位上帝号召人们向天上和地上诉说他们的罪孽。在他说出自己的罪之前，他所做的一切都无法净化他。他的罪孽？他耸耸肩。巴兹尔·霍尔沃德的死对他来说似乎微不足道。他想到了海蒂·默顿。

It was an unjust mirror, this mirror of his soul that he was looking at. Vanity? Curiosity? Hypocrisy? Had there been nothing more in his renunciation than that? There had been something more. At least he thought so. But who could tell?
这是一面不公正的镜子，他所看到的这面他灵魂的镜子。虚荣？好奇心？虚伪？他的放弃难道就仅此而已吗？还有更多的事情。至少他是这么认为的。但谁能说得清呢？

And this murder,—was it to dog him all his life? Was he never to get rid of the past? Was he really to confess? No. There was only one bit of evidence left against him. The picture itself,—that was evidence.
而这桩谋杀案——是为了追随他一生吗？难道他就永远无法摆脱过去吗？他真的要坦白吗？不，对他不利的证据只剩下一点了。照片本身——那就是证据。

He would destroy it. Why had he kept it so long? It had given him pleasure once to watch it changing and growing old. Of late he had felt no such pleasure. It had kept him awake at night. When he had been away, he had been filled with terror lest other eyes should look upon it. It had brought melancholy across his passions. Its mere memory had marred many moments of joy. It had been like conscience to him. Yes, it had been conscience. He would destroy it.
他会毁掉它。他为什么保留这么久？曾经他很高兴看到它的变化和变老。最近他再也没有感受到这样的快乐了。这让他彻夜难眠。当他离开时，他心里充满了恐惧，唯恐被其他人看到。这给他的激情带来了忧郁。它的记忆已经破坏了许多欢乐的时刻。这对他来说就像良心一样。是的，这是良心。他会毁掉它。

He looked round, and saw the knife that had stabbed Basil Hallward. He had cleaned it many times, till there was no stain left upon it. It was bright, and glistened. As it had killed the painter, so it would kill the painter’s work, and all that that meant. It would kill the past, and when that was dead he would be free. He seized it, and stabbed the canvas with it, ripping the thing right up from top to bottom.
他环顾四周，看到了刺伤巴兹尔·霍尔沃德的刀。他已经清洗过很多次了，直到上面没有留下任何污点。它很明亮，闪闪发光。正如它杀死了画家一样，它也会杀死画家的作品，以及这一切的意义。它会杀死过去，当过去消失后，他就会自由。他抓住它，用它刺破画布，把它从上到下撕碎。

There was a cry heard, and a crash. The cry was so horrible in its agony that the frightened servants woke, and crept out of their rooms. Two gentlemen, who were passing in the Square below, stopped, and looked up at the great house. They walked on till they met a policeman, and brought him back. The man rang the bell several times, but there was no answer. The house was all dark, except for a light in one of the top windows. After a time, he went away, and stood in the portico of the next house and watched.
听到一声叫喊，然后是一声撞击声。哭声太痛苦了，吓得仆人们都惊醒了，纷纷溜出了自己的房间。两位绅士正经过下面的广场，停下来，抬头看着那座大房子。他们继续走，直到遇到一名警察，并将他带了回来。该男子按了几次门铃，但无人应答。房子里一片漆黑，除了顶楼的一扇窗户里有一盏灯。过了一会儿，他走开了，站在隔壁房子的门廊上观看。

‘Whose house is that, constable?’ asked the elder of the two gentlemen.
“警官，那是谁的房子？”两位先生中年长的问道。

‘Mr. Dorian Gray’s, sir,’ answered the policeman.
'先生。多里安·格雷的，先生。”警察回答道。

They looked at each other, as they walked away, and sneered. One of them was Sir Henry Ashton’s uncle.
当他们走开时，他们互相看了一眼，同时冷笑着。其中之一是亨利·阿什顿爵士的叔叔。

Inside, in the servants’ part of the house, the half-clad domestics were talking in low whispers to each other. Old Mrs. Leaf was crying, and wringing her hands. Francis was as pale as death.
屋内的仆人区，半裸的仆人正在低声交谈。老利夫太太一边哭一边绞着双手。弗朗西斯脸色苍白得像死人一样。

After about a quarter of an hour, he got the coachman and one of the footmen and crept up-stairs. They knocked, but there was no reply. They called out. Everything was still. Finally, after vainly trying to force the door, they got on the roof, and dropped down on to the balcony. The windows yielded easily: the bolts were old.
大约一刻钟后，他找到了车夫和一名男仆，蹑手蹑脚地上了楼。他们敲门，但没有回应。他们大声喊道。一切都静止了。最后，在尝试撬门失败后，他们爬上了屋顶，跳到了阳台上。窗户很容易变形：螺栓很旧。

When they entered, they found hanging upon the wall a splendid portrait of their master as they had last seen him, in all the wonder of his exquisite youth and beauty. Lying on the floor was a dead man, in evening dress, with a knife in his heart. He was withered, wrinkled, and loathsome of visage. It was not till they had examined the rings that they recognized who it was.
当他们进去时，他们发现墙上挂着一幅他们主人最后一次见到他时的辉煌肖像，他的青春和美丽令人惊叹。地板上躺着一个死者，穿着晚礼服，心脏插着一把刀。他面容枯槁，满脸皱纹，面容令人厌恶。直到检查了戒指后，他们才认出那人是谁。