
Dubliners
都柏林人

By James Joyce
詹姆斯·乔伊斯

The Sisters
姐妹

THERE was no hope for him this time: it was the third stroke. Night after night I had passed the house (it was vacation time) and studied the lighted square of window: and night after night I had found it lighted in the same way, faintly and evenly. If he was dead, I thought, I would see the reflection of candles on the darkened blind for I knew that two candles must be set at the head of a corpse. He had often said to me: ‘I am not long for this world,’ and I had thought his words idle. Now I knew they were true. Every night as I gazed up at the window I said softly to myself the word paralysis. It had always sounded strangely in my ears, like the word gnomon in the Euclid and the word simony in the Catechism. But now it sounded to me like the name of some maleficent and sinful being. It filled me with fear, and yet I longed to be nearer to it and to look upon its deadly work.
这次他已经没有希望了：这是第三次中风。夜复一夜，我经过那栋房子（当时正值假期），研究着窗户上亮着灯的地方：夜复一夜，我发现它以同样的方式亮着，微弱而均匀。我想，如果他死了，我就会在黑暗的百叶窗上看到蜡烛的倒影，因为我知道尸体的头上必须放着两根蜡烛。他经常对我说：“我对这个世界并不渴望”，而我却认为他的话毫无意义。现在我知道他们是真的。每天晚上，当我抬头望着窗户时，我都会轻声对自己说“瘫痪”这个词。它在我耳中听起来总是很奇怪，就像《欧几里得经》中的“晷针”一词和《教义问答》中的“圣职教义”一词一样。但现在对我来说，它听起来像是某个邪恶而有罪的存在的名字。它让我充满恐惧，但我却渴望靠近它，亲眼目睹它的致命作用。

Old Cotter was sitting at the fire, smoking, when I came downstairs to supper. While my aunt was ladling out my stirabout he said, as if returning to some former remark of his:
当我下楼吃晚饭时，老科特正坐在火边抽烟。当我姨妈舀出我的搅拌棒时，他说道，仿佛又回到了他以前说过的一句话：

‘No, I wouldn’t say he was exactly... but there was something queer... there was something uncanny about him. I’ll tell you my opinion....’
“不，我不会说他确实是……但有一些奇怪的东西……他有一些不可思议的东西。我来告诉你我的看法……”

He began to puff at his pipe, no doubt arranging his opinion in his mind. Tiresome old fool! When we knew him first he used to be rather interesting, talking of faints and worms; but I soon grew tired of him and his endless stories about the distillery.
他开始抽着烟斗，无疑是在心里整理自己的看法。令人厌烦的老傻瓜！当我们第一次认识他时，他常常很有趣，谈论晕厥和蠕虫。但我很快就厌倦了他和他没完没了的关于酿酒厂的故事。

‘I have my own theory about it,’ he said. ‘I think it was one of those ... peculiar cases .... But it’s hard to say....’
“我对此有自己的理论，”他说。 “我认为这是其中之一......特殊案例......但很难说......”

He began to puff again at his pipe without giving us his theory. My uncle saw me staring and said to me:
他又开始抽着烟斗，没有告诉我们他的理论。舅舅看到我盯着我看，就对我说：

‘Well, so your old friend is gone, you’ll be sorry to hear.’
“好吧，所以你的老朋友走了，你会很难过的。”

‘Who?’ said I.
“谁？”我说。

‘Father Flynn.’
“弗林神父。”

‘Is he dead?’
“他死了吗？”

‘Mr. Cotter here has just told us. He was passing by the house.’
'先生。科特刚刚告诉我们了。他正路过那所房子。”

I knew that I was under observation so I continued eating as if the news had not interested me. My uncle explained to old Cotter.
我知道我正在接受观察，所以我继续吃东西，好像这个消息对我不感兴趣。我叔叔向老科特解释道。

‘The youngster and he were great friends. The old chap taught him a great deal, mind you; and they say he had a great wish for him.’
“这个年轻人和他是好朋友。请注意，这位老伙计教会了他很多东西；他们说他对他有一个很大的愿望。

‘God have mercy on his soul,’ said my aunt piously.
“愿上帝怜悯他的灵魂。”姨妈虔诚地说。

Old Cotter looked at me for a while. I felt that his little beady black eyes were examining me but I would not satisfy him by looking up from my plate. He returned to his pipe and finally spat rudely into the grate.
老科特看了我一会儿。我感觉到他那双黑色的小眼睛正在审视我，但我不会从盘子上抬起头来让他满意。他又回到烟斗旁，最后粗鲁地向炉排里吐了一口口水。

‘I wouldn’t like children of mine,’ he said, ‘to have too much to say to a man like that.’
“我不喜欢我的孩子，”他说，“对这样的人有太多话要说。”

‘How do you mean, Mr. Cotter?’ asked my aunt.
“你这是什么意思，科特先生？”姨妈问。

‘What I mean is,’ said old Cotter, ‘it’s bad for children. My idea is: let a young lad run about and play with young lads of his own age and not be... Am I right, Jack?’
“我的意思是，”老科特说，“这对孩子们不好。”我的想法是：让一个小伙子到处跑，和同龄的小伙子一起玩，而不是……我说得对吗，杰克？

‘That’s my principle, too,’ said my uncle. ‘Let him learn to box his corner. That’s what I’m always saying to that Rosicrucian there: take exercise. Why, when I was a nipper every morning of my life I had a cold bath, winter and summer. And that’s what stands to me now. Education is all very fine and large.... Mr. Cotter might take a pick of that leg mutton,’ he added to my aunt.
“这也是我的原则，”叔叔说。 “让他学会守住自己的角落。这就是我总是对那里的玫瑰十字会说的话：锻炼身体。为什么，当我还是个小孩子的时候，无论冬天还是夏天，我每天早上都会洗冷水澡。这就是我现在的看法。教育是非常好的和广泛的……科特先生可能会选择那块羊腿肉，”他对我姨妈补充道。

‘No, no, not for me,’ said old Cotter.
“不，不，不适合我，”老科特说。

My aunt brought the dish from the safe and put it on the table.
阿姨从保险箱里把菜拿出来放在桌子上。

‘But why do you think it’s not good for children, Mr. Cotter?’ she asked.
“但是你为什么认为这对孩子不好呢，科特先生？”她问道。

‘It’s bad for children,’ said old Cotter, ‘because their mind are so impressionable. When children see things like that, you know, it has an effect....’
“这对孩子们不好，”老科特说，“因为他们的思想太容易受到影响。当孩子们看到这样的事情时，你知道，它会产生影响……”

I crammed my mouth with stirabout for fear I might give utterance to my anger. Tiresome old red-nosed imbecile!
我用搅拌棒塞满了嘴，生怕我会说出我的愤怒。令人厌烦的红鼻子老蠢货！

It was late when I fell asleep. Though I was angry with old Cotter for alluding to me as a child, I puzzled my head to extract meaning from his unfinished sentences. In the dark of my room I imagined that I saw again the heavy grey face of the paralytic. I drew the blankets over my head and tried to think of Christmas. But the grey face still followed me. It murmured, and I understood that it desired to confess something. I felt my soul receding into some pleasant and vicious region; and there again I found it waiting for me. It began to confess to me in a murmuring voice and I wondered why it smiled continually and why the lips were so moist with spittle. But then I remembered that it had died of paralysis and I felt that I too was smiling feebly as if to absolve the simoniac of his sin.
等我睡着的时候已经很晚了。尽管我对老科特暗指我还是个孩子而感到愤怒，但我还是绞尽脑汁地想从他未说完的句子中找出含义。在黑暗的房间里，我想象自己再次看到了瘫痪者那张沉重的灰色脸。我把毯子盖在头上，努力回想圣诞节。但那张灰色的脸仍然跟着我。它低声说道，我明白它想要坦白什么。我感到我的灵魂正在退入某个愉快而邪恶的领域；我再次发现它在等我。它开始用低声的声音向我忏悔，我想知道它为什么一直微笑，为什么嘴唇上沾满了唾沫。但后来我想起它已经瘫痪而死，我觉得我也在虚弱地微笑，仿佛要为圣西蒙赦免他的罪孽。

The next morning after breakfast I went down to look at the little house in Great Britain Street. It was an unassuming shop, registered under the vague name of Drapery . The drapery consisted mainly of children’s bootees and umbrellas; and on ordinary days a notice used to hang in the window, saying: Umbrellas Re-covered . No notice was visible now for the shutters were up. A crape bouquet was tied to the doorknocker with ribbon. Two poor women and a telegram boy were reading the card pinned on the crape. I also approached and read:
第二天早上吃完早饭，我就下楼去看英国街的那座小房子。这是一家不起眼的商店，注册的名字很模糊，叫“Drapery”。窗帘主要由儿童靴子和雨伞组成。平日里，窗户上挂着一张告示，上面写着：雨伞已重新遮盖。现在看不到任何通知，因为百叶窗已经打开了。门环上用丝带系着一束黑纱花。两个可怜的女人和一个报童正在读挂在黑纱上的卡片。我也走近并阅读：

July 1st, 1895
1895 年 7 月 1 日

The Rev. James Flynn (formerly of S. Catherine’s Church, Meath Street), aged sixty-five years.
詹姆斯·弗林牧师（原米斯街圣凯瑟琳教堂成员），现年六十五岁。

R. I. P.
R.I.P.

The reading of the card persuaded me that he was dead and I was disturbed to find myself at check. Had he not been dead I would have gone into the little dark room behind the shop to find him sitting in his arm-chair by the fire, nearly smothered in his great-coat. Perhaps my aunt would have given me a packet of High Toast for him and this present would have roused him from his stupefied doze. It was always I who emptied the packet into his black snuff-box for his hands trembled too much to allow him to do this without spilling half the snuff about the floor. Even as he raised his large trembling hand to his nose little clouds of smoke dribbled through his fingers over the front of his coat. It may have been these constant showers of snuff which gave his ancient priestly garments their green faded look for the red handkerchief, blackened, as it always was, with the snuff-stains of a week, with which he tried to brush away the fallen grains, was quite inefficacious.
读到卡片后，我确信他已经死了，我很不安地发现自己受到了控制。如果他没有死，我就会走进商店后面的小黑屋，发现他坐在火边的扶手椅上，几乎被大衣闷住了。也许我姨妈会给我一包高吐司给他，这个礼物会让他从昏昏欲睡的状态中醒来。总是我把鼻烟盒里的东西倒进他的黑色鼻烟盒里，因为他的手颤抖得厉害，让他在不把一半鼻烟洒在地板上的情况下做到这一点。即使当他将颤抖的大手举到鼻子时，一小团烟雾也通过他的手指滴到了外套的前面。也许正是这些持续不断的鼻烟雨，让他古老的牧师服装呈现出绿色褪色的样子，而红色手帕则像往常一样，被一周的鼻烟污渍熏黑了，他试图用它擦掉掉下来的颗粒。 ，效率很低。

I wished to go in and look at him but I had not the courage to knock. I walked away slowly along the sunny side of the street, reading all the theatrical advertisements in the shop-windows as I went. I found it strange that neither I nor the day seemed in a mourning mood and I felt even annoyed at discovering in myself a sensation of freedom as if I had been freed from something by his death. I wondered at this for, as my uncle had said the night before, he had taught me a great deal. He had studied in the Irish college in Rome and he had taught me to pronounce Latin properly. He had told me stories about the catacombs and about Napoleon Bonaparte, and he had explained to me the meaning of the different ceremonies of the Mass and of the different vestments worn by the priest. Sometimes he had amused himself by putting difficult questions to me, asking me what one should do in certain circumstances or whether such and such sins were mortal or venial or only imperfections. His questions showed me how complex and mysterious were certain institutions of the Church which I had always regarded as the simplest acts. The duties of the priest towards the Eucharist and towards the secrecy of the confessional seemed so grave to me that I wondered how anybody had ever found in himself the courage to undertake them; and I was not surprised when he told me that the fathers of the Church had written books as thick as the Post Office Directory and as closely printed as the law notices in the newspaper, elucidating all these intricate questions. Often when I thought of this I could make no answer or only a very foolish and halting one upon which he used to smile and nod his head twice or thrice. Sometimes he used to put me through the responses of the Mass which he had made me learn by heart; and, as I pattered, he used to smile pensively and nod his head, now and then pushing huge pinches of snuff up each nostril alternately. When he smiled he used to uncover his big discoloured teeth and let his tongue lie upon his lower lip—a habit which had made me feel uneasy in the beginning of our acquaintance before I knew him well.
我想进去看看他，但我没有勇气敲门。我沿着街道阳光明媚的一侧慢慢走开，边走​​边阅读商店橱窗里所有的戏剧广告。我觉得很奇怪，无论是我还是那天，都没有一种哀悼的心情，我什至因为在自己身上发现一种自由的感觉而感到恼火，仿佛我因他的死而从某种东西中解放了出来。我对此感到好奇，因为正如我叔叔前一天晚上所说的那样，他教会了我很多东西。他曾在罗马的爱尔兰学院学习，他教我正确发音拉丁语。他给我讲了有关地下墓穴和拿破仑·波拿巴的故事，还向我解释了弥撒的不同仪式以及神父所穿的不同法衣的含义。有时他会向我提出一些棘手的问题来取乐，问我在某些情况下应该做什么，或者这样那样的罪是否是致命的、轻微的或只是不完美的。他的问题向我展示了教会的某些机构是多么复杂和神秘，而我一直认为这些机构是最简单的行为。神父对圣体圣事和忏悔室保密的责任对我来说是如此重大，以至于我想知道如何有人有勇气承担这些责任；当他告诉我，教会的教父们写了像《邮局指南》一样厚的书，和报纸上的法律公告一样印刷得密密麻麻的书来阐明所有这些复杂的问题时，我并不感到惊讶。当我想到这一点时，我常常无法回答，或者只能做出非常愚蠢和犹豫的回答，而他常常微笑着点头两三次。 有时，他常常让我记住他让我背下来的弥撒的反应。当我喋喋不休时，他常常若有所思地微笑着点点头，时不时地把一大撮鼻烟交替地塞进每个鼻孔。当他微笑时，他常常露出变色的大牙齿，并把舌头放在下唇上——这个习惯让我在我们刚认识的时候感到不安，在我还没有熟悉他之前。

As I walked along in the sun I remembered old Cotter’s words and tried to remember what had happened afterwards in the dream. I remembered that I had noticed long velvet curtains and a swinging lamp of antique fashion. I felt that I had been very far away, in some land where the customs were strange—in Persia, I thought.... But I could not remember the end of the dream.
当我在阳光下行走时，我想起了老科特的话，并试图回忆起梦中后来发生的事情。我记得我注意到了长长的天鹅绒窗帘和一盏古董时尚的摇摆灯。我感觉自己已经到了很远的地方，在某个风俗习惯很奇怪的地方——我想是在波斯……但我不记得梦的结局。

In the evening my aunt took me with her to visit the house of mourning. It was after sunset; but the window-panes of the houses that looked to the west reflected the tawny gold of a great bank of clouds. Nannie received us in the hall; and, as it would have been unseemly to have shouted at her, my aunt shook hands with her for all. The old woman pointed upwards interrogatively and, on my aunt’s nodding, proceeded to toil up the narrow staircase before us, her bowed head being scarcely above the level of the banister-rail. At the first landing she stopped and beckoned us forward encouragingly towards the open door of the dead-room. My aunt went in and the old woman, seeing that I hesitated to enter, began to beckon to me again repeatedly with her hand.
晚上，姨妈带我去灵堂参观。那是在日落之后。但是朝西的房屋的窗玻璃反射着一大片黄褐色的金色云层。保姆在大厅里接待了我们。而且，因为对她大喊大叫是不体面的，姨妈还是和她握手了。老妇人疑惑地指着上方，在姨妈点点头后，她开始费力地爬上我们面前的狭窄楼梯，她低着的头几乎不高于栏杆栏杆的高度。在第一个楼梯平台上，她停了下来，鼓励我们朝死室敞开的门走去。姨妈进去了，老太婆见我犹豫要不要进去，又开始不断地向我招手。

I went in on tiptoe. The room through the lace end of the blind was suffused with dusky golden light amid which the candles looked like pale thin flames. He had been coffined. Nannie gave the lead and we three knelt down at the foot of the bed. I pretended to pray but I could not gather my thoughts because the old woman’s mutterings distracted me. I noticed how clumsily her skirt was hooked at the back and how the heels of her cloth boots were trodden down all to one side. The fancy came to me that the old priest was smiling as he lay there in his coffin.
我踮着脚尖进去了。透过百叶窗的花边末端，房间里弥漫着昏暗的金色光芒，蜡烛在其中看起来像苍白的、细细的火焰。他已经被关进棺材了。保姆带头，我们三人跪在床尾。我假装在祈祷，但我无法集中注意力，因为老妇人的嘀咕声分散了我的注意力。我注意到她的裙子是多么笨拙地钩在后面，布靴的后跟是如何被踩到一侧的。我突然想到，老牧师躺在棺材里时正在微笑。

But no. When we rose and went up to the head of the bed I saw that he was not smiling. There he lay, solemn and copious, vested as for the altar, his large hands loosely retaining a chalice. His face was very truculent, grey and massive, with black cavernous nostrils and circled by a scanty white fur. There was a heavy odour in the room—the flowers.
但不是。当我们站起来走到床头时，我看到他没有微笑。他躺在那里，庄严而丰富，像祭坛一样穿着背心，他的大手松松地拿着一个圣杯。他的脸非常凶猛，灰色而巨大，有黑色的海绵状鼻孔，周围覆盖着稀疏的白色皮毛。房间里有一股很重的气味——花香。

We crossed ourselves and came away. In the little room downstairs we found Eliza seated in his arm-chair in state. I groped my way towards my usual chair in the corner while Nannie went to the sideboard and brought out a decanter of sherry and some wine-glasses. She set these on the table and invited us to take a little glass of wine. Then, at her sister’s bidding, she filled out the sherry into the glasses and passed them to us. She pressed me to take some cream crackers also but I declined because I thought I would make too much noise eating them. She seemed to be somewhat disappointed at my refusal and went over quietly to the sofa where she sat down behind her sister. No one spoke: we all gazed at the empty fireplace.
我们画了十字然后离开了。在楼下的小房间里，我们发现伊丽莎威严地坐在他的扶手椅上。我摸索着走向角落里我常用的椅子，保姆走到餐具柜前，拿出一瓶雪利酒和一些酒杯。她把这些放在桌子上，并邀请我们喝一点酒。然后，按照她姐姐的吩咐，她把雪利酒倒入玻璃杯中，递给我们。她还催促我拿一些奶油饼干，但我拒绝了，因为我觉得吃它们会发出太大的声音。她似乎对我的拒绝有些失望，悄悄走到姐姐身后的沙发旁坐下。没有人说话：我们都凝视着空荡荡的壁炉。

My aunt waited until Eliza sighed and then said:
姨妈等到伊丽莎叹了口气才说道：

‘Ah, well, he’s gone to a better world.’
“啊，好吧，他去了一个更好的世界。”

Eliza sighed again and bowed her head in assent. My aunt fingered the stem of her wine-glass before sipping a little.
艾丽莎再次叹了口气，低下头表示同意。我姨妈用手指摸了摸酒杯的杯脚，然后抿了一小口。

‘Did he... peacefully?’ she asked.
“他……很平静吗？”她问道。

‘Oh, quite peacefully, ma’am,’ said Eliza. ‘You couldn’t tell when the breath went out of him. He had a beautiful death, God be praised.’
“哦，很平静，女士，”伊丽莎说。 “你不知道他什么时候断气的。他死得很美好，赞美上帝。”

‘And everything...?’
'和所有...？'

‘Father O’Rourke was in with him a Tuesday and anointed him and prepared him and all.’
“周二，奥罗克神父和他在一起，为他涂油，为他做好准备。”

‘He knew then?’
“他当时就知道了？”

‘He was quite resigned.’
“他很听天由命。”

‘He looks quite resigned,’ said my aunt.
“他看起来很听天由命，”我姨妈说。

‘That’s what the woman we had in to wash him said. She said he just looked as if he was asleep, he looked that peaceful and resigned. No one would think he’d make such a beautiful corpse.’
“我们帮他洗澡的那个女人就是这么说的。她说他看起来就像睡着了一样，看起来那么平静和顺从。没有人会想到他会制造出如此美丽的尸体。

‘Yes, indeed,’ said my aunt.
“是的，确实如此，”姨妈说。

She sipped a little more from her glass and said:
她又喝了一口杯子，说道：

‘Well, Miss Flynn, at any rate it must be a great comfort for you to know that you did all you could for him. You were both very kind to him, I must say.’
“好吧，弗林小姐，无论如何，知道你为他做了一切，这对你来说一定是一种极大的安慰。我必须说，你们对他都很好。

Eliza smoothed her dress over her knees.
伊丽莎把裙子抚平到膝盖上。

‘Ah, poor James!’ she said. ‘God knows we done all we could, as poor as we are—we wouldn’t see him want anything while he was in it.’
“啊，可怜的詹姆斯！”她说。 “上帝知道我们已经尽力了，尽管我们很穷，但当他身处其中时，我们不会看到他想要任何东西。”

Nannie had leaned her head against the sofa-pillow and seemed about to fall asleep.
保姆把头靠在沙发枕头上，看上去就要睡着了。

‘There’s poor Nannie,’ said Eliza, looking at her, ‘she’s wore out. All the work we had, she and me, getting in the woman to wash him and then laying him out and then the coffin and then arranging about the Mass in the chapel. Only for Father O’Rourke I don’t know what we’d done at all. It was him brought us all them flowers and them two candlesticks out of the chapel and wrote out the notice for the Freeman’s General and took charge of all the papers for the cemetery and poor James’s insurance.’
“可怜的保姆，”伊丽莎看着她说，“她累坏了。”我们所有的工作，她和我，让女人给他洗澡，然后把他放在外面，然后棺材，然后在教堂里安排弥撒。只是对于奥罗克神父，我根本不知道我们做了什么。是他从教堂给我们所有人带来了鲜花和两个烛台，为自由民将军写了通知，并负责了墓地和可怜的詹姆斯保险的所有文件。

‘Wasn’t that good of him?’ said my aunt
“他不是很好吗？”我姨妈说。

Eliza closed her eyes and shook her head slowly.
伊丽莎闭上眼睛，慢慢地摇了摇头。

‘Ah, there’s no friends like the old friends,’ she said, ‘when all is said and done, no friends that a body can trust.’
“啊，没有像老朋友那样的朋友了，”她说，“归根结底，没有一个人可以信任的朋友。”

‘Indeed, that’s true,’ said my aunt. ‘And I’m sure now that he’s gone to his eternal reward he won’t forget you and all your kindness to him.’
“确实，确实如此，”姨妈说。 “我现在确信，他已经得到了永恒的奖赏，他不会忘记你和你对他的所有善意。”

‘Ah, poor James!’ said Eliza. ‘He was no great trouble to us. You wouldn’t hear him in the house any more than now. Still, I know he’s gone and all to that....’
“啊，可怜的詹姆斯！”伊丽莎说。 “他对我们来说并不是什么大麻烦。和现在一样，你在屋子里再也听不到他的声音了。不过，我知道他已经走了，一切都是如此……”

‘It’s when it’s all over that you’ll miss him,’ said my aunt.
“当一切都结束的时候，你就会想念他的，”我姨妈说。

‘I know that,’ said Eliza. ‘I won’t be bringing him in his cup of beef-tea any me, nor you, ma’am, sending him his snuff. Ah, poor James!’
“我知道，”伊丽莎说。 “我不会给他端一杯牛肉茶，女士，你也不会给他送鼻烟。”啊，可怜的詹姆斯！”

She stopped, as if she were communing with the past and then said shrewdly:
她停了下来，仿佛在诉说着往事，然后精明地说：

‘Mind you, I noticed there was something queer coming over him latterly. Whenever I’d bring in his soup to him there I’d find him with his breviary fallen to the floor, lying back in the chair and his mouth open.’
“请注意，我注意到他最近有点奇怪。每当我把他的汤端给他时，我都会发现他的祈祷书掉在地板上，躺在椅子上，张着嘴。

She laid a finger against her nose and frowned: then she continued:
她用手指抵着鼻子，皱起眉头，接着说道：

‘But still and all he kept on saying that before the summer was over he’d go out for a drive one fine day just to see the old house again where we were all born down in Irishtown and take me and Nannie with him. If we could only get one of them new-fangled carriages that makes no noise that Father O’Rourke told him about, them with the rheumatic wheels, for the day cheap—he said, at Johnny Rush’s over the way there and drive out the three of us together of a Sunday evening. He had his mind set on that.... Poor James!’
“但他仍然一直说，在夏天结束之前，他会在一个晴朗的日子开车出去兜风，只是为了再次看看我们都出生在爱尔兰镇的老房子，并带上我和保姆一起去。如果我们能买到一辆奥罗克神父告诉过他的那种新型马车，不会发出任何噪音，而且带有风湿轮子，只要便宜一天就好了——他说，在路那边的约翰尼·拉什店里，然后把车开出去。周日晚上我们三个人在一起。他一心只想着……可怜的詹姆斯！

‘The Lord have mercy on his soul!’ said my aunt.
“愿上帝怜悯他的灵魂！”姨妈说。

Eliza took out her handkerchief and wiped her eyes with it. Then she put it back again in her pocket and gazed into the empty grate for some time without speaking.
伊丽莎拿出手帕擦了擦眼睛。然后她又把它放回口袋，凝视着空荡荡的炉栅好一会儿，没有说话。

‘He was too scrupulous always,’ she said. ‘The duties of the priesthood was too much for him. And then his life was, you might say, crossed.’
“他总是太谨慎了，”她说。 “祭司的职责对他来说太过沉重了。然后你可能会说，他的人生发生了转折。

‘Yes,’ said my aunt. ‘He was a disappointed man. You could see that.’
“是的，”姨妈说。 ‘他是一个失望的人。你可以看到这一点。

A silence took possession of the little room and, under cover of it, I approached the table and tasted my sherry and then returned quietly to my chair in the comer. Eliza seemed to have fallen into a deep revery. We waited respectfully for her to break the silence: and after a long pause she said slowly:
小房间里一片寂静，在寂静的掩护下，我走近桌子，品尝了我的雪利酒，然后静静地回到角落里的椅子上。伊丽莎似乎陷入了深深的沉思。我们恭敬地等待她打破沉默：停顿了很长一段时间后，她慢慢地说：

‘It was that chalice he broke.... That was the beginning of it. Of course, they say it was all right, that it contained nothing, I mean. But still.... They say it was the boy’s fault. But poor James was so nervous, God be merciful to him!’
“他打碎的是那个圣杯……这就是事情的开始。”当然，他们说没关系，我是说里面什么也没有。但仍然......他们说这是男孩的错。但可怜的詹姆斯太紧张了，上帝怜悯他！”

‘And was that it?’ said my aunt. ‘I heard something....’
“是这样吗？”姨妈说。 “我听到了什么……”

Eliza nodded.
伊丽莎点点头。

‘That affected his mind,’ she said. ‘After that he began to mope by himself, talking to no one and wandering about by himself. So one night he was wanted for to go on a call and they couldn’t find him anywhere. They looked high up and low down; and still they couldn’t see a sight of him anywhere. So then the clerk suggested to try the chapel. So then they got the keys and opened the chapel and the clerk and Father O’Rourke and another priest that was there brought in a light for to look for him.... And what do you think but there he was, sitting up by himself in the dark in his confession-box, wideawake and laughing-like softly to himself?’
“这影响了他的思想，”她说。从那以后，他就开始闷闷不乐，不跟任何人说话，一个人到处闲逛。因此，有一天晚上，有人要他去打电话，但他们却找不到他。他们高高在上，低下看去；但他们仍然看不到他的踪影。于是店员建议去教堂试试。然后他们拿到了钥匙，打开了教堂，书记员、奥罗克神父和另一位在那里的牧师带了灯来寻找他……你觉得怎么样，但他就在那里，坐在旁边他自己在黑暗的忏悔室里，完全清醒，轻柔地自言自语？

She stopped suddenly as if to listen. I too listened; but there was no sound in the house: and I knew that the old priest was lying still in his coffin as we had seen him, solemn and truculent in death, an idle chalice on his breast.
她突然停了下来，像是在倾听。我也听了；但屋子里没有任何声音：我知道老牧师一动不动地躺在棺材里，就像我们看到的那样，死时庄严而好斗，胸前放着一个闲置的圣杯。

Eliza resumed:
伊丽莎继续说道：

‘Wide-awake and laughing-like to himself.... So then, of course, when they saw that, that made them think that there was something gone wrong with him....’
“他完全清醒，大笑起来……所以，当然，当他们看到这一点时，他们就认为他出了什么问题……”

An Encounter
一次邂逅

IT WAS Joe Dillon who introduced the Wild West to us. He had a little library made up of old numbers of The Union Jack , Pluck and The Halfpenny Marvel . Every evening after school we met in his back garden and arranged Indian battles. He and his fat young brother Leo, the idler, held the loft of the stable while we tried to carry it by storm; or we fought a pitched battle on the grass. But, however well we fought, we never won siege or battle and all our bouts ended with Joe Dillon’s war dance of victory. His parents went to eighto’clock mass every morning in Gardiner Street and the peaceful odour of Mrs. Dillon was prevalent in the hall of the house. But he played too fiercely for us who were younger and more timid. He looked like some kind of an Indian when he capered round the garden, an old tea-cosy on his head, beating a tin with his fist and yelling:
乔·狄龙向我们介绍了狂野西部。他有一个小图书馆，里面有《英国国旗》、《普拉克》和《半便士奇迹》的旧号码。每天晚上放学后，我们都会在他的后花园见面，安排印第安人的战斗。他和他的胖弟弟利奥（Leo）是个闲人，他们守着马厩的阁楼，而我们则试图用暴风雨来摧毁它。或者我们在草地上激战。但是，无论我们打得多么出色，我们都从未赢得围攻或战斗，我们所有的战斗都以乔·狄龙的胜利战舞结束。他的父母每天早上都去加德纳街参加八点钟的弥撒，房子的大厅里弥漫着狄龙夫人的宁静气味。但对于我们这些年纪小、胆小的人来说，他打得太凶了。当他在花园里蹦蹦跳跳时，他看上去就像个印第安人，头上顶着一个旧茶壶，用拳头敲打着一个罐头，大喊道：

‘Ya! yaka, yaka, yaka!’
‘呀！呀卡，呀卡，呀卡！’

Everyone was incredulous when it was reported that he had a vocation for the priesthood. Nevertheless it was true.
当有报道称他的职业是牧师时，每个人都难以置信。尽管如此，这确实是事实。

A spirit of unruliness diffused itself among us and, under its influence, differences of culture and constitution were waived. We banded ourselves together, some boldly, some in jest and some almost in fear: and of the number of these latter, the reluctant Indians who were afraid to seem studious or lacking in robustness, I was one. The adventures related in the literature of the Wild West were remote from my nature but, at least, they opened doors of escape. I liked better some American detective stories which were traversed from time to time by unkempt fierce and beautiful girls. Though there was nothing wrong in these stories and though their intention was sometimes literary they were circulated secretly at school. One day when Father Butler was hearing the four pages of Roman History clumsy Leo Dillon was discovered with a copy of The Halfpenny Marvel .
一种不守规矩的精神在我们中间蔓延，在它的影响下，文化和体质的差异被放弃了。我们团结在一起，有的大胆，有的开玩笑，有的几乎充满恐惧：而在后者的数量中，这些不情愿的印度人害怕显得勤奋或缺乏稳健，我就是其中之一。狂野西部文学中的冒险与我的本性相去甚远，但至少它们打开了逃生之门。我更喜欢一些美国侦探小说，里面时不时会出现不修边幅的凶猛美丽的女孩。尽管这些故事并没有什么问题，尽管它们的意图有时是文学性的，但它们还是在学校里秘密流传。有一天，当巴特勒神父在听四页的罗马历史时，笨手笨脚的利奥·狄龙被发现拿着一本《半便士奇迹》。

‘This page or this page? This page Now, Dillon, up! ‘Hardly had the day’ ... Go on! What day? ‘Hardly had the day dawned’ ... Have you studied it? What have you there in your pocket?’
‘这一页还是这一页？此页 现在，狄龙，起来！ “这一天几乎没有过”……继续吧！什么日子？ “天刚亮”……你研究过吗？你口袋里有什么？

Everyone’s heart palpitated as Leo Dillon handed up the paper and everyone assumed an innocent face. Father Butler turned over the pages, frowning.
当里奥·狄龙递出试卷时，所有人的心都一颤，脸上都露出了无辜的表情。巴特勒神父皱着眉头翻着书页。

‘What is this rubbish?’ he said. ‘The Apache Chief! Is this what you read instead of studying your Roman History? Let me not find any more of this wretched stuff in this college. The man who wrote it, I suppose, was some wretched fellow who writes these things for a drink. I’m surprised at boys like you, educated, reading such stuff. I could understand it if you were ... National School boys. Now, Dillon, I advise you strongly, get at your work or...’
“这是什么垃圾？”他说。 “阿帕奇酋长！这是你读的而不是研究罗马历史的内容吗？让我不要在这所大学里再发现这种恶心的事情了。我想，写这篇文章的人是个为了喝酒而写这些东西的可怜虫。我对像你这样受过教育、读了这样的东西的男孩感到惊讶。如果你是……国立学校的男生，我就能理解。现在，狄龙，我强烈建议你，开始工作，否则……”

This rebuke during the sober hours of school paled much of the glory of the Wild West for me and the confused puffy face of Leo Dillon awakened one of my consciences. But when the restraining influence of the school was at a distance I began to hunger again for wild sensations, for the escape which those chronicles of disorder alone seemed to offer me. The mimic warfare of the evening became at last as wearisome to me as the routine of school in the morning because I wanted real adventures to happen to myself. But real adventures, I reflected, do not happen to people who remain at home: they must be sought abroad.
对我来说，在学校清醒的时间里的这种斥责使狂野西部的荣耀黯然失色，而利奥·狄龙那张困惑浮肿的脸唤醒了我的良心。但当学校的束缚影响远离我时，我又开始渴望狂野的感觉，渴望那些混乱的编年史似乎能为我提供的逃避。晚上的模拟战争最终让我感到厌倦，就像早上学校的例行公事一样，因为我希望真正的冒险发生在自己身上。但我想，真正的冒险不会发生在呆在家里的人身上：他们必须到国外去寻找。

The summer holidays were near at hand when I made up my mind to break out of the weariness of schoollife for one day at least. With Leo Dillon and a boy named Mahony I planned a day’s miching. Each of us saved up sixpence. We were to meet at ten in the morning on the Canal Bridge. Mahony’s big sister was to write an excuse for him and Leo Dillon was to tell his brother to say he was sick. We arranged to go along the Wharf Road until we came to the ships, then to cross in the ferryboat and walk out to see the Pigeon House. Leo Dillon was afraid we might meet Father Butler or someone out of the college; but Mahony asked, very sensibly, what would Father Butler be doing out at the Pigeon House. We were reassured: and I brought the first stage of the plot to an end by collecting sixpence from the other two, at the same time showing them my own sixpence. When we were making the last arrangements on the eve we were all vaguely excited. We shook hands, laughing, and Mahony said:
暑假即将来临，我决定至少有一天要摆脱学校生活的疲倦。我和利奥·狄龙以及一个名叫马霍尼的男孩一起计划了一天的米奇之旅。我们每人存了六便士。我们定于早上十点在运河桥见面。马霍尼的姐姐要为他写一个借口，利奥·狄龙要告诉他的兄弟说他病了。我们安排沿着码头路一直走到船边，然后坐渡船出去，就可以看到鸽子屋了。利奥·狄龙担心我们可能会遇到巴特勒神父或学院外的人；但马霍尼非常明智地问，巴特勒神父会去鸽子屋做什么。我们放心了：我从另外两个人那里收集了六便士，同时向他们展示了我自己的六便士，从而结束了情节的第一阶段。当我们在前夜做最后的安排时，我们都隐约感到兴奋。我们笑着握手，马霍尼说：

‘Till tomorrow, mates!’
“明天见，伙计们！”

That night I slept badly. In the morning I was firstcomer to the bridge as I lived nearest. I hid my books in the long grass near the ashpit at the end of the garden where nobody ever came and hurried along the canal bank. It was a mild sunny morning in the first week of June. I sat up on the coping of the bridge admiring my frail canvas shoes which I had diligently pipeclayed overnight and watching the docile horses pulling a tramload of business people up the hill. All the branches of the tall trees which lined the mall were gay with little light green leaves and the sunlight slanted through them on to the water. The granite stone of the bridge was beginning to be warm and I began to pat it with my hands in time to an air in my head. I was very happy.
那天晚上我睡得很不好。早上我是第一个来到桥的，因为我住得最近。我把书藏在花园尽头灰坑附近的长草丛里，那里从来没有人来过，然后沿着运河岸匆匆而行。这是六月第一周一个温和阳光明媚的早晨。我坐在桥顶上，欣赏着我连夜辛辛苦苦用粘土铺成的脆弱帆布鞋，看着温顺的马儿拉着一车商人上山。商场两旁的所有高大树木的树枝都长满了浅绿色的小叶子，阳光透过它们斜射到水面上。桥上的花岗岩开始变暖，我开始用手拍打它，及时让我的头脑中充满空气。我很高兴。

When I had been sitting there for five or ten minutes I saw Mahony’s grey suit approaching. He came up the hill, smiling, and clambered up beside me on the bridge. While we were waiting he brought out the catapult which bulged from his inner pocket and explained some improvements which he had made in it. I asked him why he had brought it and he told me he had brought it to have some gas with the birds. Mahony used slang freely, and spoke of Father Butler as Old Bunser. We waited on for a quarter of an hour more but still there was no sign of Leo Dillon. Mahony, at last, jumped down and said:
当我在那里坐了五到十分钟后，我看到马霍尼的灰色西装走近了。他微笑着上了山，爬上桥，站在我身边。当我们等待时，他拿出从内兜里凸出的弹射器，并解释了他对弹射器所做的一些改进。我问他为什么带它来，他告诉我他带它来是为了给鸟儿喝点气。马霍尼随意使用俚语，称巴特勒神父为“老本瑟”。我们又等了一刻钟，但仍然没有里奥·狄龙的踪影。马霍尼终于跳了下来，说道：

‘Come along. I knew Fatty’d funk it.’
'一起来。我知道胖子会害怕的。

‘And his sixpence...?’ I said.
“那他的六便士……？”我说。

‘That’s forfeit,’ said Mahony. ‘And so much the better for us—a bob and a tanner instead of a bob.’
“那就是放弃，”马霍尼说。 “这对我们来说更好——一个鲍勃和一个制革商而不是一个鲍勃。”

We walked along the North Strand Road till we came to the Vitriol Works and then turned to the right along the Wharf Road. Mahony began to play the Indian as soon as we were out of public sight. He chased a crowd of ragged girls, brandishing his unloaded catapult and, when two ragged boys began, out of chivalry, to fling stones at us, he proposed that we should charge them. I objected that the boys were too small and so we walked on, the ragged troop screaming after us: ‘Swaddlers! Swaddlers!’ thinking that we were Protestants because Mahony, who was dark-complexioned, wore the silver badge of a cricket club in his cap. When we came to the Smoothing Iron we arranged a siege; but it was a failure because you must have at least three. We revenged ourselves on Leo Dillon by saying what a funk he was and guessing how many he would get at three o’clock from Mr. Ryan.
我们沿着North Strand Road一直走到Vitriol Works，然后向右转沿着Wharf Road。我们一离开公众视线，马霍尼就开始扮演印第安人的角色。他挥舞着卸下的弹弓追赶一群衣衫褴褛的女孩，当两个衣衫褴褛的男孩出于骑士精神开始向我们扔石头时，他提议我们应该向他们冲锋。我反对说男孩们太小了，所以我们继续前行，衣衫褴褛的队伍在我们身后尖叫：‘襁褓！襁褓！”以为我们是新教徒，因为肤色黝黑的马霍尼帽子上戴着板球俱乐部的银色徽章。当我们到达磨铁场时，我们安排了一场围攻。但这是失败的，因为你必须至少有三个。我们对利奥·狄龙进行了报复，说他真是个胆小鬼，并猜测他会在三点钟从瑞安先生那里得到多少。

We came then near the river. We spent a long time walking about the noisy streets flanked by high stone walls, watching the working of cranes and engines and often being shouted at for our immobility by the drivers of groaning carts. It was noon when we reached the quays and as all the labourers seemed to be eating their lunches, we bought two big currant buns and sat down to eat them on some metal piping beside the river. We pleased ourselves with the spectacle of Dublin’s commerce—the barges signalled from far away by their curls of woolly smoke, the brown fishing fleet beyond Ringsend, the big white sailingvessel which was being discharged on the opposite quay. Mahony said it would be right skit to run away to sea on one of those big ships and even I, looking at the high masts, saw, or imagined, the geography which had been scantily dosed to me at school gradually taking substance under my eyes. School and home seemed to recede from us and their influences upon us seemed to wane.
然后我们来到了河边。我们花了很长时间在两侧是高高的石墙的喧闹街道上行走，看着起重机和发动机的工作，并经常因为我们一动不动而被呻吟着的车夫大喊大叫。到达码头时已是中午，所有的工人似乎都在吃午饭，我们买了两个大醋栗面包，坐在河边的金属管道上吃。我们对都柏林的商业奇观感到满意——驳船从远处冒着袅袅的烟雾，在林森德之外的棕色渔船，在对面码头卸货的白色大帆船。马霍尼说，乘坐其中一艘大船出海是正确的小品，甚至我，看着高高的桅杆，看到或想象到，在学校里很少向我介绍的地理逐渐在我的眼前变得充实起来。学校和家庭似乎离我们越来越远，它们对我们的影响也似乎减弱了。

We crossed the Liffey in the ferryboat, paying our toll to be transported in the company of two labourers and a little Jew with a bag. We were serious to the point of solemnity, but once during the short voyage our eyes met and we laughed. When we landed we watched the discharging of the graceful threemaster which we had observed from the other quay. Some bystander said that she was a Norwegian vessel. I went to the stern and tried to decipher the legend upon it but, failing to do so, I came back and examined the foreign sailors to see had any of them green eyes for I had some confused notion.... The sailors’ eyes were blue and grey and even black. The only sailor whose eyes could have been called green was a tall man who amused the crowd on the quay by calling out cheerfully every time the planks fell:
我们乘坐渡船渡过利菲河，支付了路费，在两名工人和一个提着袋子的小犹太人的陪伴下。我们严肃到了庄严的地步，但在短暂的航程中，有一次我们四目相对，大笑起来。当我们登陆时，我们看到了我们在另一个码头观察到的优雅的三桅船卸货。有旁观者称，这是一艘挪威船只。我走到船尾，试图破译上面的传说，但没有成功，我回来检查了外国水手，看看他们中是否有人有绿色的眼睛，因为我有一些困惑的想法……水手的眼睛是蓝色和灰色的，甚至是黑色的。唯一一个眼睛可以被称为绿色的水手是一个高个子男人，每当木板倒下时，他都会高兴地喊道，逗乐码头上的人群：

‘All right! All right!’
'好的！好的！'

When we were tired of this sight we wandered slowly into Ringsend. The day had grown sultry, and in the windows of the grocers’ shops musty biscuits lay bleaching. We bought some biscuits and chocolate which we ate sedulously as we wandered through the squalid streets where the families of the fishermen live. We could find no dairy and so we went into a huckster’s shop and bought a bottle of raspberry lemonade each. Refreshed by this, Mahony chased a cat down a lane, but the cat escaped into a wide field. We both felt rather tired and when we reached the field we made at once for a sloping bank over the ridge of which we could see the Dodder.
当我们厌倦了这种景象时，我们慢慢漫步到灵森德。天变得闷热起来，杂货店的橱窗里放着发霉的饼干，已经褪色。我们买了一些饼干和巧克力，一边认真地吃着，一边漫步在渔民家庭居住的肮脏街道上。我们找不到乳制品，所以我们走进一家小贩的商店，每人买了一瓶覆盆子柠檬水。马霍尼精神焕发，沿着一条小巷追赶一只猫，但那只猫逃到了一片宽阔的田野里。我们都感到相当疲倦，当我们到达田野时，我们立即走向山脊上的一个斜坡，从那里我们可以看到菟丝子。

It was too late and we were too tired to carry out our project of visiting the Pigeon House. We had to be home before four o’clock lest our adventure should be discovered. Mahony looked regretfully at his catapult and I had to suggest going home by train before he regained any cheerfulness. The sun went in behind some clouds and left us to our jaded thoughts and the crumbs of our provisions.
时间已经太晚了，我们也太累了，无法进行参观鸽子馆的计划。我们必须在四点之前回家，以免我们的冒险被发现。马霍尼遗憾地看着他的弹射器，我不得不建议他乘火车回家，然后他才恢复快乐。太阳躲进云层后面，留下我们疲惫的思绪和食物的残渣。

There was nobody but ourselves in the field. When we had lain on the bank for some time without speaking I saw a man approaching from the far end of the field. I watched him lazily as I chewed one of those green stems on which girls tell fortunes. He came along by the bank slowly. He walked with one hand upon his hip and in the other hand he held a stick with which he tapped the turf lightly. He was shabbily dressed in a suit of greenish-black and wore what we used to call a jerry hat with a high crown. He seemed to be fairly old for his moustache was ashen-grey. When he passed at our feet he glanced up at us quickly and then continued his way. We followed him with our eyes and saw that when he had gone on for perhaps fifty paces he turned about and began to retrace his steps. He walked towards us very slowly, always tapping the ground with his stick, so slowly that I thought he was looking for something in the grass.
田野里除了我们自己没有其他人。当我们在岸边躺了一段时间没有说话时，我看到一个男人从田野的尽头走来。我懒洋洋地看着他，嚼着一根女孩们用来算命的绿色茎。他慢慢地走过河岸。他走路时一只手放在臀部，另一只手拿着一根棍子，轻轻地敲打着草皮。他穿着破旧的黑绿色西装，戴着一顶我们常说的高冠杰利帽。他的胡子呈灰灰色，看上去年纪相当大。当他经过我们脚边时，他迅速抬头看了我们一眼，然后继续前行。我们的目光跟着他，看到他走了大约五十步后，他转身开始原路返回。他非常缓慢地向我们走来，总是用棍子敲击地面，速度如此缓慢，我以为他在草丛中寻找什么东西。

He stopped when he came level with us and bade us goodday. We answered him and he sat down beside us on the slope slowly and with great care. He began to talk of the weather, saying that it would be a very hot summer and adding that the seasons had changed gready since he was a boy—a long time ago. He said that the happiest time of one’s life was undoubtedly one’s schoolboy days and that he would give anything to be young again. While he expressed these sentiments which bored us a little we kept silent. Then he began to talk of school and of books. He asked us whether we had read the poetry of Thomas Moore or the works of Sir Walter Scott and Lord Lytton. I pretended that I had read every book he mentioned so that in the end he said:
当他来到我们身边时，他停了下来，向我们道了声再见。我们回答了他，他在斜坡上慢慢地、非常小心地坐在我们旁边。他开始谈论天气，说这将是一个非常炎热的夏天，并补充说，从他还是个孩子的时候起——很久以前，季节已经发生了巨大的变化。他说，人生最幸福的时光无疑是学生时代，为了重获青春，他愿意付出一切。当他表达这些让我们有点厌烦的情绪时，我们保持沉默。然后他开始谈论学校和书籍。他问我们是否读过托马斯·摩尔的诗歌或沃尔特·斯科特爵士和利顿勋爵的作品。我假装我读过他提到的每一本书，所以最后他说：

‘Ah, I can see you are a bookworm like myself. Now,’ he added, pointing to Mahony who was regarding us with open eyes, ‘he is different; he goes in for games.’
‘啊，我看得出你和我一样是个书呆子。现在，”他指着张开眼睛看着我们的马霍尼补充道，“他不一样了；他是一个不一样的人。”他参加比赛。”

He said he had all Sir Walter Scott’s works and all Lord Lytton’s works at home and never tired of reading them. ‘Of course,’ he said, ‘there were some of Lord Lytton’s works which boys couldn’t read.’ Mahony asked why couldn’t boys read them—a question which agitated and pained me because I was afraid the man would think I was as stupid as Mahony. The man, however, only smiled. I saw that he had great gaps in his mouth between his yellow teeth. Then he asked us which of us had the most sweethearts. Mahony mentioned lightly that he had three totties. The man asked me how many I had. I answered that I had none. He did not believe me and said he was sure I must have one. I was silent.
他说他家里有沃尔特·斯科特爵士和利顿勋爵的所有作品，而且读起来乐此不疲。 “当然，”他说，“利顿勋爵的有些作品是男孩子无法阅读的。”马霍尼问为什么男孩子不能读这些作品——这个问题让我感到不安和痛苦，因为我担心那个人会认为我和马霍尼一样愚蠢。然而，男人却只是笑了笑。我看到他嘴里的黄色牙齿之间有很大的缝隙。然后他问我们谁的情人最多。马霍尼轻描淡写地提到他有三个孩子。那人问我有多少。我回答说我没有。他不相信我，并说他确信我一定有一个。我沉默了。

‘Tell us,’ said Mahony pertly to the man, ‘how many have you yourself?’
“告诉我们，”马霍尼傲慢地对那个人说，“你自己有多少个？”

The man smiled as before and said that when he was our age he had lots of sweethearts.
男人一如既往地微笑着说，他在我们这个年纪的时候，有很多情人。

‘Every boy,’ he said, ‘has a little sweetheart.’
“每个男孩，”他说，“都有一个小情人。”

His attitude on this point struck me as strangely liberal in a man of his age. In my heart I thought that what he said about boys and sweethearts was reasonable. But I disliked the words in his mouth and I wondered why he shivered once or twice as if he feared something or felt a sudden chill. As he proceeded I noticed that his accent was good. He began to speak to us about girls, saying what nice soft hair they had and how soft their hands were and how all girls were not so good as they seemed to be if one only knew. There was nothing he liked, he said, so much as looking at a nice young girl, at her nice white hands and her beautiful soft hair. He gave me the impression that he was repeating something which he had learned by heart or that, magnetised by some words of his own speech, his mind was slowly circling round and round in the same orbit. At times he spoke as if he were simply alluding to some fact that everybody knew, and at times he lowered his voice and spoke mysteriously as if he were telling us something secret which he did not wish others to overhear. He repeated his phrases over and over again, varying them and surrounding them with his monotonous voice. I continued to gaze towards the foot of the slope, listening to him.
在我看来，他在这一点上的态度对于他这个年纪的人来说是一种奇怪的自由主义态度。我心里觉得他说的男生和情侣的话都有道理。但我不喜欢他嘴里的话，我想知道为什么他会颤抖一两次，好像他害怕什么，或者突然感到一阵寒意。当他继续说下去时，我注意到他的口音很好。他开始向我们谈论女孩，说她们的头发多么柔软，她们的手多么柔软，所有的女孩都不像她们看起来那么好，如果人们只知道的话。他说，他最喜欢的就是看着一个漂亮的年轻女孩，看着她漂亮白皙的双手和美丽柔软的头发。他给我的印象是，他正在重复背诵的一些东西，或者是，被他自己演讲中的一些词语所吸引，他的思想在同一个轨道上慢慢地转了一圈又一圈。有时他说话好像只是在暗示一些大家都知道的事实，有时他压低声音神秘地说话，好像他在告诉我们一些他不希望别人听到的秘密。他一遍又一遍地重复他的短语，改变它们并用他单调的声音包围它们。我继续凝视着坡脚，听着他的话。

After a long while his monologue paused. He stood up slowly, saying that he had to leave us for a minute or so, a few minutes, and, without changing the direction of my gaze, I saw him walking slowly away from us towards the near end of the field. We remained silent when he had gone. After a silence of a few minutes I heard Mahony exclaim:
良久之后，他的独白停了下来。他慢慢地站起来，说他必须离开我们一分钟左右，几分钟，我没有改变目光的方向，我看到他慢慢地离开我们，向田野的近端走去。他走后我们保持沉默。几分钟的沉默后，我听到马霍尼惊呼道：

‘I say! Look what he’s doing!’
'我说！看看他在做什么！

As I neither answered nor raised my eyes Mahony exclaimed again:
当我既没有回答，也没有抬起眼睛时，马霍尼又惊呼道：

‘I say... He’s a queer old josser!’
“我说……他是个奇怪的老小丑！”

‘In case he asks us for our names,’ I said ‘let you be Murphy and I’ll be Smith.’
“如果他问我们的名字，”我说，“让你叫墨菲，我叫史密斯。”

We said nothing further to each other. I was still considering whether I would go away or not when the man came back and sat down beside us again. Hardly had he sat down when Mahony, catching sight of the cat which had escaped him, sprang up and pursued her across the field. The man and I watched the chase. The cat escaped once more and Mahony began to throw stones at the wall she had escaladed. Desisting from this, he began to wander about the far end of the field, aimlessly.
我们彼此没有再说什么。我正考虑要不要走，那人又回来坐到我们身边了。他刚坐下，马霍尼就看到了那只从他身边逃走的猫，跳了起来，穿过田野追赶她。我和那个男人看着这场追逐。猫再次逃脱，马霍尼开始向她升起的墙壁扔石头。他停下脚步，开始漫无目的地在田野的尽头徘徊。

After an interval the man spoke to me. He said that my friend was a very rough boy and asked did he get whipped often at school. I was going to reply indignantly that we were not National School boys to be whipped, as he called it; but I remained silent. He began to speak on the subject of chastising boys. His mind, as if magnetised again by his speech, seemed to circle slowly round and round its new centre. He said that when boys were that kind they ought to be whipped and well whipped. When a boy was rough and unruly there was nothing would do him any good but a good sound whipping. A slap on the hand or a box on the ear was no good: what he wanted was to get a nice warm whipping. I was surprised at this sentiment and involuntarily glanced up at his face. As I did so I met the gaze of a pair of bottle-green eyes peering at me from under a twitching forehead. I turned my eyes away again.
过了一会儿，那个人对我说话了。他说我的朋友是个很粗鲁的男孩，并问他在学校是否经常被鞭打。我本来要愤怒地回答说，我们不是他所说的要被鞭打的国立学校男孩；我们是被鞭打的人。但我保持沉默。他开始谈论惩罚男孩的话题。他的思绪仿佛再次被他的演讲所吸引，似乎慢慢地绕着新的中心转了一圈又一圈。他说，当男孩子变成那样的时候，他们就应该被鞭打，而且要好好鞭打。当一个男孩粗鲁、不守规矩时，除了好好鞭打之外，没有什么能对他有任何好处。打手或打耳光都没有好处：他想要的是一顿温暖的鞭打。我对这种情绪感到惊讶，不由自主地抬头看了他的脸。当我这样做时，我遇到了一双深绿色的眼睛，从抽动的额头下面凝视着我。我再次把目光移开。

The man continued his monologue. He seemed to have forgotten his recent liberalism. He said that if ever he found a boy talking to girls or having a girl for a sweetheart he would whip him and whip him; and that would teach him not to be talking to girls. And if a boy had a girl for a sweetheart and told lies about it then he would give him such a whipping as no boy ever got in this world. He said that there was nothing in this world he would like so well as that. He described to me how he would whip such a boy as if he were unfolding some elaborate mystery. He would love that, he said, better than anything in this world; and his voice, as he led me monotonously through the mystery, grew almost affectionate and seemed to plead with me that I should understand him.
男人继续他的独白。他似乎忘记了最近的自由主义。他说，如果他发现一个男孩和女孩说话或者有一个女孩做情人，他就会鞭打他，鞭打他；这会教会他不要和女孩说话。如果一个男孩有一个女孩作为情人并对此撒了谎，那么他就会给他一顿鞭打，这是世界上任何男孩都没有受到过的。他说，这个世界上没有什么比这更让他喜欢的了。他向我描述了他如何鞭打这样一个男孩，就好像他正在揭开一些复杂的谜团一样。他说，他最喜欢这个，胜过这个世界上的任何东西。当他单调地引导我了解这个谜团时，他的声音变得近乎深情，似乎在恳求我应该理解他。

I waited till his monologue paused again. Then I stood up abruptly. Lest I should betray my agitation I delayed a few moments pretending to fix my shoe properly and then, saying that I was obliged to go, I bade him good-day. I went up the slope calmly but my heart was beating quickly with fear that he would seize me by the ankles. When I reached the top of the slope I turned round and, without looking at him, called loudly across the field:
我等到他的独白再次停顿。然后我猛地站了起来。为了避免暴露我的激动，我拖延了一会儿，假装把鞋子修好了，然后说我不得不走了，我向他道了日安。我平静地走上斜坡，但我的心却跳得很快，生怕他会抓住我的脚踝。当我到达坡顶时，我转过身来，看也不看他，对着田野大声喊道：

‘Murphy!’
“墨菲！”

My voice had an accent of forced bravery in it and I was ashamed of my paltry stratagem. I had to call the name again before Mahony saw me and hallooed in answer. How my heart beat as he came running across the field to me! He ran as if to bring me aid. And I was penitent; for in my heart I had always despised him a little.
我的声音里带着强迫性的勇敢，我为自己的微不足道的策略感到羞愧。在马霍尼看到我并大声回答之前，我不得不再次呼唤这个名字。当他穿过田野向我跑过来时，我的心跳得多么厉害！他跑过来，好像是要给我带来帮助。我很忏悔；因为我心里一直有些鄙视他。

Araby
阿拉比

NORTH RICHMOND STREET being blind, was a quiet street except at the hour when the Christian Brothers’ School set the boys free. An uninhabited house of two storeys stood at the blind end, detached from its neighbours in a square ground The other houses of the street, conscious of decent lives within them, gazed at one another with brown imperturbable faces.
北里士满街是一条盲街，除了基督教兄弟学校释放男孩们的时间外，这里一直是一条安静的街道。一栋无人居住的两层楼房矗立在死胡同的一端，与周围的邻居隔离在一块方形的土地上。街上的其他房屋都意识到自己过着体面的生活，他们用棕色的、镇定的面孔互相凝视着。

The former tenant of our house, a priest, had died in the back drawing-room. Air, musty from having been long enclosed, hung in all the rooms, and the waste room behind the kitchen was littered with old useless papers. Among these I found a few paper-covered books, the pages of which were curled and damp: The Abbot, by Walter Scott, The Devout Communnicant and The Memoirs of Vidocq. I liked the last best because its leaves were yellow. The wild garden behind the house contained a central apple-tree and a few straggling bushes under one of which I found the late tenant’s rusty bicycle-pump. He had been a very charitable priest; in his will he had left all his money to institutions and the furniture of his house to his sister.
我们房子的前房客是一位牧师，他死在后面的客厅里。所有房间里都弥漫着因长期封闭而发霉的空气，厨房后面的废弃房间里堆满了无用的旧纸张。其中我找到了几本纸质书籍，书页卷曲且潮湿：沃尔特·斯科特的《修道院长》、《虔诚的圣徒》和《维多克回忆录》。我最喜欢最后一个，因为它的叶子是黄色的。房子后面的野生花园里有一棵苹果树和几棵散乱的灌木丛，我在其中一棵灌木丛下发现了已故房客生锈的自行车打气筒。他是一位非常仁慈的牧师。在他的遗嘱中，他将所有的钱都留给了机构，并将家里的家具留给了他的妹妹。

When the short days of winter came dusk fell before we had well eaten our dinners. When we met in the street the houses had grown sombre. The space of sky above us was the colour of ever-changing violet and towards it the lamps of the street lifted their feeble lanterns. The cold air stung us and we played till our bodies glowed. Our shouts echoed in the silent street. The career of our play brought us through the dark muddy lanes behind the houses where we ran the gauntlet of the rough tribes from the cottages, to the back doors of the dark dripping gardens where odours arose from the ashpits, to the dark odorous stables where a coachman smoothed and combed the horse or shook music from the buckled harness. When we returned to the street light from the kitchen windows had filled the areas. If my uncle was seen turning the corner we hid in the shadow until we had seen him safely housed. Or if Mangan’s sister came out on the doorstep to call her brother in to his tea we watched her from our shadow peer up and down the street. We waited to see whether she would remain or go in and, if she remained, we left our shadow and walked up to Mangan’s steps resignedly. She was waiting for us, her figure defined by the light from the half-opened door. Her brother always teased her before he obeyed and I stood by the railings looking at her. Her dress swung as she moved her body and the soft rope of her hair tossed from side to side.
冬天的白天很短，我们还没吃完晚饭，黄昏就降临了。当我们在街上相遇时，房子已经变得阴暗了。我们头顶上的天空是不断变化的紫罗兰色，街上的路灯向天空举起了微弱的灯笼。寒冷的空气刺痛着我们，我们玩得全身发烫。寂静的街道上回荡着我们的呼喊声。我们的游戏生涯带我们穿过房屋后面黑暗泥泞的小巷，在那里我们从小屋里经受着粗野部落的挑战，到黑暗的、滴着水的花园的后门，那里的灰坑里散发着气味，到黑暗的、散发着恶臭的马厩，那里车夫抚平、梳理马匹，或摇动带扣马具上的音乐。当我们回到街边时，厨房窗户发出的光已经充满了整个区域。如果看到我叔叔拐过街角，我们就会躲在阴影里，直到看到他安全地被安置为止。或者，如果曼根的姐姐出来叫她哥哥来喝茶，我们就会从影子里观察她在街上的情况。我们等着看她是留下来还是进去，如果她留下来，我们就留下影子，无奈地走到曼根的台阶上。她正在等我们，半开的门透出的灯光勾勒出她的身影。她哥哥在服从之前总是取笑她，我站在栏杆旁看着她。她的裙子随着她身体的移动而摆动，柔软的发绳从一边甩到另一边。

Every morning I lay on the floor in the front parlour watching her door. The blind was pulled down to within an inch of the sash so that I could not be seen. When she came out on the doorstep my heart leaped. I ran to the hall, seized my books and followed her. I kept her brown figure always in my eye and, when we came near the point at which our ways diverged, I quickened my pace and passed her. This happened morning after morning. I had never spoken to her, except for a few casual words, and yet her name was like a summons to all my foolish blood.
每天早上我躺在前厅的地板上看着她的门。百叶窗被拉到距窗框不到一英寸的地方，这样我就看不见了。当她出现在门口时，我的心狂跳起来。我跑到大厅，抓起书本，跟着她。我始终注视着她棕色的身影，当我们快要分道扬镳时，我加快了脚步，超越了她。这样的事一早又一早地发生。我从来没有和她说过话，除了几句随意的话，但她的名字就像在召唤我所有愚蠢的血液。

Her image accompanied me even in places the most hostile to romance. On Saturday evenings when my aunt went marketing I had to go to carry some of the parcels. We walked through the flaring streets, jostled by drunken men and bargaining women, amid the curses of labourers, the shrill litanies of shop-boys who stood on guard by the barrels of pigs’ cheeks, the nasal chanting of street-singers, who sang a come-all-you about O’Donovan Rossa, or a ballad about the troubles in our native land. These noises converged in a single sensation of life for me: I imagined that I bore my chalice safely through a throng of foes. Her name sprang to my lips at moments in strange prayers and praises which I myself did not understand. My eyes were often full of tears (I could not tell why) and at times a flood from my heart seemed to pour itself out into my bosom. I thought little of the future. I did not know whether I would ever speak to her or not or, if I spoke to her, how I could tell her of my confused adoration. But my body was like a harp and her words and gestures were like fingers running upon the wires.
即使在最不利于浪漫的地方，她的形象也伴随着我。周六晚上，当我姑姑去推销时，我不得不去搬运一些包裹。我们穿过灯火通明的街道，醉汉和讨价还价的女人推挤着，周围是劳工的咒骂声、守卫在猪颊肉桶旁的店童尖声的长篇大论、街头歌手用鼻音唱着的歌声。关于奥多诺万·罗萨的大家来吧，或者关于我们祖国的麻烦的民谣。这些噪音对我来说汇聚成了一种生命的感觉：我想象着我拿着我的圣杯安全地穿过了一群敌人。她的名字时不时地在我自己无法理解的奇怪的祈祷和赞美中跳到我的嘴边。我的眼里经常充满泪水（我说不出为什么），有时，我内心的洪水似乎涌入我的怀抱。我对未来的想法很少。我不知道我是否会和她说话，或者如果我和她说话，我该如何告诉她我困惑的崇拜。但我的身体就像一架竖琴，而她的言语和手势就像手指在电线上运行。

One evening I went into the back drawing-room in which the priest had died. It was a dark rainy evening and there was no sound in the house. Through one of the broken panes I heard the rain impinge upon the earth, the fine incessant needles of water playing in the sodden beds. Some distant lamp or lighted window gleamed below me. I was thankful that I could see so little. All my senses seemed to desire to veil themselves and, feeling that I was about to slip from them, I pressed the palms of my hands together until they trembled, murmuring: ‘O love! O love!’ many times.
一天晚上，我走进后客厅，牧师就死在了那里。那是一个漆黑的雨夜，屋里没有任何声音。透过一扇破碎的玻璃，我听到雨点敲击大地，细小的水针不断地在湿透的床上玩耍。远处的一盏灯或亮着的窗户在我下面闪闪发光。我很庆幸自己能看到的东西这么少。我所有的感官似乎都渴望遮盖自己，感觉自己就要从它们中溜走，我把手掌压在一起，直到它们颤抖，低声说：‘爱啊！噢，爱！’很多次。

At last she spoke to me. When she addressed the first words to me I was so confused that I did not know what to answer. She asked me was I going to Araby. I forgot whether I answered yes or no. It would be a splendid bazaar, she said she would love to go.
最后她跟我说话了。当她对我说第一句话时，我很困惑，不知道该回答什么。她问我要去阿拉比吗？我忘了我是回答是还是不是。这将是一个精彩的集市，她说她很想去。

‘And why can’t you?’ I asked.
“那你为什么不能呢？”我问。

While she spoke she turned a silver bracelet round and round her wrist. She could not go, she said, because there would be a retreat that week in her convent. Her brother and two other boys were fighting for their caps and I was alone at the railings. She held one of the spikes, bowing her head towards me. The light from the lamp opposite our door caught the white curve of her neck, lit up her hair that rested there and, falling, lit up the hand upon the railing. It fell over one side of her dress and caught the white border of a petticoat, just visible as she stood at ease.
她一边说话，一边将一只银手镯在手腕上转了一圈又一圈。她说她不能去，因为那周她的修道院将举行静修活动。她的兄弟和另外两个男孩正在争夺帽子，而我独自一人站在栏杆旁。她拿着一根钉子，向我低下头。门对面的灯发出的光照射在她脖子上的白色曲线上，照亮了她搁在那里的头发，也照亮了她扶在栏杆上的手。它落在她裙子的一侧，挂在衬裙的白色边缘上，当她轻松地站着时，它清晰可见。

‘It’s well for you,’ she said.
“这对你有好处，”她说。

‘If I go,’ I said, ‘I will bring you something.’
“如果我去，”我说，“我会给你带点东西。”

What innumerable follies laid waste my waking and sleeping thoughts after that evening! I wished to annihilate the tedious intervening days. I chafed against the work of school. At night in my bedroom and by day in the classroom her image came between me and the page I strove to read. The syllables of the word Araby were called to me through the silence in which my soul luxuriated and cast an Eastern enchantment over me. I asked for leave to go to the bazaar on Saturday night. My aunt was surprised and hoped it was not some Freemason affair. I answered few questions in class. I watched my master’s face pass from amiability to sternness; he hoped I was not beginning to idle. I could not call my wandering thoughts together. I had hardly any patience with the serious work of life which, now that it stood between me and my desire, seemed to me child’s play, ugly monotonous child’s play.
那天晚上之后，我醒着和睡着的思想都被无数的愚蠢行为所浪费了！我希望消灭中间那些乏味的日子。我对学校的工作很恼火。晚上在我的卧室里，白天在教室里，她的形象出现在我和我努力阅读的页面之间。 “阿拉比”这个词的音节是在寂静中召唤给我的，我的灵魂在其中尽情享受，并给我带来了东方的魅力。星期六晚上我请假去集市。我姨妈很惊讶，希望这不是共济会的事情。我在课堂上回答了几个问题。我看着主人的脸色从和蔼可亲变成了严厉。他希望我没有开始无所事事。我无法将那些飘忽不定的思绪集中起来。我对生活中的严肃工作几乎没有任何耐心，因为它阻碍了我和我的欲望，在我看来，它就像儿戏，丑陋单调的儿戏。

On Saturday morning I reminded my uncle that I wished to go to the bazaar in the evening. He was fussing at the hallstand, looking for the hat-brush, and answered me curtly:
星期六早上，我提醒叔叔我想晚上去集市。他在衣帽架上忙碌着，寻找帽刷，简短地回答我：

‘Yes, boy, I know.’
“是的，孩子，我知道。”

As he was in the hall I could not go into the front parlour and lie at the window. I left the house in bad humour and walked slowly towards the school. The air was pitilessly raw and already my heart misgave me.
因为他在大厅里，所以我不能走进前厅躺在窗前。我心情不好地离开家，慢慢地朝学校走去。空气无情地干燥，我的心已经感到不安。

When I came home to dinner my uncle had not yet been home. Still it was early. I sat staring at the clock for some time and. when its ticking began to irritate me, I left the room. I mounted the staircase and gained the upper part of the house. The high cold empty gloomy rooms liberated me and I went from room to room singing. From the front window I saw my companions playing below in the street. Their cries reached me weakened and indistinct and, leaning my forehead against the cool glass, I looked over at the dark house where she lived. I may have stood there for an hour, seeing nothing but the brown-clad figure cast by my imagination, touched discreetly by the lamplight at the curved neck, at the hand upon the railings and at the border below the dress.
当我回家吃晚饭时，叔叔还没有回家。不过还早。我坐在那里盯着时钟看了一会儿。当它的滴答声开始让我恼火时，我离开了房间。我爬上楼梯，到达了房子的上半部分。又冷又空、阴暗的房间解放了我，我从一个房间走到另一个房间唱歌。从前窗我看到我的同伴们正在下面的街上玩耍。他们的叫声传到我耳中，声音微弱而模糊，我把额头靠在冰凉的玻璃上，看着她住的那间漆黑的房子。我可能已经在那里站了一个小时，除了我想象中投射出的棕衣人影之外，什么也没有看到，灯光小心翼翼地触摸着弯曲的脖子、扶在栏杆上的手和裙子下面的边缘。

When I came downstairs again I found Mrs. Mercer sitting at the fire. She was an old garrulous woman, a pawnbroker’s widow, who collected used stamps for some pious purpose. I had to endure the gossip of the tea-table. The meal was prolonged beyond an hour and still my uncle did not come. Mrs. Mercer stood up to go: she was sorry she couldn’t wait any longer, but it was after eight o’clock and she did not like to be out late as the night air was bad for her. When she had gone I began to walk up and down the room, clenching my fists. My aunt said:
当我再次下楼时，我发现默瑟太太坐在火边。她是一位爱唠叨的老妇人，是当铺老板的遗孀，出于某种虔诚的目的收集旧邮票。我不得不忍受茶桌上的流言蜚语。吃饭时间拖了一个多小时，舅舅还是没有来。默瑟太太起身要走：她很抱歉不能再等了，但现在已经八点了，她不喜欢出去太晚，因为夜间的空气对她不好。她走后，我开始在房间里走来走去，握紧拳头。我阿姨说：

‘I’m afraid you may put off your bazaar for this night of Our Lord.’
“恐怕你们可能会在我们主的这个夜晚推迟集市。”

At nine o’clock I heard my uncle’s latchkey in the halldoor. I heard him talking to himself and heard the hallstand rocking when it had received the weight of his overcoat. I could interpret these signs. When he was midway through his dinner I asked him to give me the money to go to the bazaar. He had forgotten.
九点钟，我听到叔叔在门厅门上开钥匙的声音。我听见他自言自语，也听见门厅架承受了他大衣的重量而摇晃。我可以解读这些迹象。当他吃到一半时，我请他给我钱去集市。他已经忘记了。

‘The people are in bed and after their first sleep now,’ he said.
他说：“人们已经上床睡觉了，刚刚睡完第一觉。”

I did not smile. My aunt said to him energetically:
我没有笑。姨妈精力充沛地对他说：

‘Can’t you give him the money and let him go? You’ve kept him late enough as it is.’
‘你不能给他钱并让他走吗？你已经让他迟到了。”

My uncle said he was very sorry he had forgotten. He said he believed in the old saying: ‘All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.’ He asked me where I was going and, when I had told him a second time he asked me did I know The Arab’s Farewell to his Steed. When I left the kitchen he was about to recite the opening lines of the piece to my aunt.
我叔叔说他很抱歉他忘记了。他说他相信那句老话：“只工作，不玩耍，让杰克变成一个迟钝的男孩。”他问我要去哪里，当我第二次告诉他时，他问我是否知道《阿拉伯人的告别》骏马。当我离开厨房时，他正准备向我姨妈背诵这首曲子的开头几行。

I held a florin tightly in my hand as I strode down Buckingham Street towards the station. The sight of the streets thronged with buyers and glaring with gas recalled to me the purpose of my journey. I took my seat in a third-class carriage of a deserted train. After an intolerable delay the train moved out of the station slowly. It crept onward among ruinous house and over the twinkling river. At Westland Row Station a crowd of people pressed to the carriage doors; but the porters moved them back, saying that it was a special train for the bazaar. I remained alone in the bare carriage. In a few minutes the train drew up beside an improvised wooden platform. I passed out on to the road and saw by the lighted dial of a clock that it was ten minutes to ten. In front of me was a large building which displayed the magical name.
当我沿着白金汉街朝车站走去时，我手里紧紧握着一弗罗林。街道上挤满了买家，汽油闪烁着光芒，这让我想起了我此行的目的。我在一辆废弃火车的三等车厢里坐下。经过难以忍受的延误后，火车缓缓驶出车站。它在破败的房屋中爬行，越过闪烁的河流。在Westland Row车站，一群人挤在车厢门前。但搬运工却把他们拉了回去，说这是开往集市的专列。空荡荡的车厢里只剩下我一个人。几分钟后，火车停在一个临时搭建的木制站台旁。我昏倒在路上，从发光的时钟表盘上看到，现在还差十点十点。我的面前是一座巨大的建筑，上面写着这个神奇的名字。

I could not find any sixpenny entrance and, fearing that the bazaar would be closed, I passed in quickly through a turnstile, handing a shilling to a weary-looking man. I found myself in a big hall girdled at half its height by a gallery. Nearly all the stalls were closed and the greater part of the hall was in darkness. I recognised a silence like that which pervades a church after a service. I walked into the centre of the bazaar timidly. A few people were gathered about the stalls which were still open. Before a curtain, over which the words Cafe Chantant were written in coloured lamps, two men were counting money on a salver. I listened to the fall of the coins.
我找不到任何六便士的入口，担心集市会关门，所以我很快地通过十字转门进去，把一先令递给一个疲惫不堪的人。我发现自己身处一个大厅，周围环绕着一半高的画廊。几乎所有的摊位都关门了，大厅的大部分地方都处于黑暗之中。我发现教堂里一片寂静，就像礼拜后弥漫的那样。我胆怯地走进集市中央。一些人聚集在仍然营业的摊位周围。幕布前，两个男人正在数托盘上的钱，幕布上用彩灯写着“Cafe Chantant”字样。我听到硬币掉落的声音。

Remembering with difficulty why I had come I went over to one of the stalls and examined porcelain vases and flowered teasets. At the door of the stall a young lady was talking and laughing with two young gentlemen. I remarked their English accents and listened vaguely to their conversation.
我很难记住自己来这里的目的，走到一个摊位前，检查了瓷花瓶和花茶具。摊位门口一位年轻女士正与两位年轻先生有说有笑。我注意到他们的英国口音，并模模糊糊地听着他们的谈话。

‘O, I never said such a thing!’
“哦，我从来没有说过这样的话！”

‘O, but you did!’
“哦，但你做到了！”

‘O, but I didn’t!’
“噢，但我没有！”

‘Didn’t she say that?’
“她不是这么说的吗？”

‘Yes. I heard her.’
'是的。我听到了她的声音。

‘0, there’s a ... fib!’
“0，有一个……谎言！”

Observing me the young lady came over and asked me did I wish to buy anything. The tone of her voice was not encouraging; she seemed to have spoken to me out of a sense of duty. I looked humbly at the great jars that stood like eastern guards at either side of the dark entrance to the stall and murmured:
那位年轻女士看到我走过来，问我要买什么东西吗？她的语气并不鼓舞人心。她似乎是出于责任感才跟我说话的。我谦卑地看着摊位黑暗入口两侧像东方守卫一样立着的大罐子，低声说道：

‘No, thank you.’
'不，谢谢。'

The young lady changed the position of one of the vases and went back to the two young men. They began to talk of the same subject. Once or twice the young lady glanced at me over her shoulder.
小姐改变了其中一个花瓶的位置，回到了两个年轻人的身边。他们开始谈论同一个话题。有一两次，这位年轻女士回头看了我一眼。

I lingered before her stall, though I knew my stay was useless, to make my interest in her wares seem the more real. Then I turned away slowly and walked down the middle of the bazaar. I allowed the two pennies to fall against the sixpence in my pocket. I heard a voice call from one end of the gallery that the light was out. The upper part of the hall was now completely dark.
我在她的摊位前徘徊，尽管我知道我的停留毫无用处，只是为了让我对她的商品更感兴趣。然后我慢慢地转身，沿着集市的中间走去。我让那两便士落在我口袋里的六便士上。我听到画廊一端传来声音，说灯灭了。大厅的上半部分现在完全黑暗了。

Gazing up into the darkness I saw myself as a creature driven and derided by vanity; and my eyes burned with anguish and anger.
凝视着黑暗，我发现自己是一个被虚荣驱使和嘲笑的生物。我的眼睛里充满了痛苦和愤怒。

Eveline
伊芙琳

SHE sat at the window watching the evening invade the avenue. Her head was leaned against the window curtains and in her nostrils was the odour of dusty cretonne. She was tired.
她坐在窗前，看着夜色侵入大道。她的头靠在窗帘上，鼻孔里充满了布满灰尘的印花布的气味。她累了。

Few people passed. The man out of the last house passed on his way home; she heard his footsteps clacking along the concrete pavement and afterwards crunching on the cinder path before the new red houses. One time there used to be a field there in which they used to play every evening with other people’s children. Then a man from Belfast bought the field and built houses in it—not like their little brown houses but bright brick houses with shining roofs. The children of the avenue used to play together in that field —the Devines, the Waters, the Dunns, little Keogh the cripple, she and her brothers and sisters. Ernest, however, never played: he was too grown up. Her father used often to hunt them in out of the field with his blackthorn stick; but usually little Keogh used to keep nix and call out when he saw her father coming. Still they seemed to have been rather happy then. Her father was not so bad then; and besides, her mother was alive. That was a long time ago; she and her brothers and sisters were all grown up her mother was dead. Tizzie Dunn was dead, too, and the Waters had gone back to England. Everything changes. Now she was going to go away like the others, to leave her home.
没几个人过去。从最后一栋房子里出来的那个人在回家的路上经过。她听到他的脚步声沿着水泥人行道嘎吱作响，然后又踩在新红房子前的煤渣路上嘎吱作响。从前，那里有一块空地，他们每天晚上都会和别人的孩子一起玩耍。然后，一个来自贝尔法斯特的人买了这块地，并在里面建造了房屋——不像他们的棕色小房子，而是带有闪亮屋顶的明亮砖房。大街上的孩子们过去常常一起在那个球场上玩耍——迪瓦恩一家、沃特斯一家、邓恩一家、瘸子小基奥、她和她的兄弟姐妹。然而，欧内斯特从未参加过比赛：他太成熟了。她父亲经常用他的黑刺李棍子在田野里猎杀它们。但通常情况下，小基奥看到她父亲来时，都会保持警惕并大声喊叫。尽管如此，他们当时似乎还是很高兴。那时她的父亲还没有那么坏。而且，她的母亲还活着。那是很久以前的事;她和她的兄弟姐妹都长大了，她的母亲去世了。蒂齐·邓恩也死了，沃特斯一家又回到了英国。一切都变了。现在她要像其他人一样离开她的家。

Home! She looked round the room, reviewing all its familiar objects which she had dusted once a week for so many years, wondering where on earth all the dust came from. Perhaps she would never see again those familiar objects from which she had never dreamed of being divided. And yet during all those years she had never found out the name of the priest whose yellowing photograph hung on the wall above the broken harmonium beside the coloured print of the promises made to Blessed Margaret Mary Alacoque. He had been a school friend of her father. Whenever he showed the photograph to a visitor her father used to pass it with a casual word:
家！她环视房间，回顾多年来她每周除尘一次的所有熟悉的物品，想知道这些灰尘到底从哪里来。也许她再也见不到那些她从未梦想过与之分离的熟悉物体了。然而这些年来，她一直没有找到那位神父的名字，这位神父的泛黄照片挂在破碎的风琴上方的墙上，旁边是对真福玛格丽特·玛丽·阿拉科克许下的承诺的彩色印刷品。他是她父亲的学校朋友。每当他向访客展示这张照片时，她的父亲都会随口说一句：

‘He is in Melbourne now.’
“他现在在墨尔本。”

She had consented to go away, to leave her home. Was that wise? She tried to weigh each side of the question. In her home anyway she had shelter and food; she had those whom she had known all her life about her. O course she had to work hard, both in the house and at business. What would they say of her in the Stores when they found out that she had run away with a fellow? Say she was a fool, perhaps; and her place would be filled up by advertisement. Miss Gavan would be glad. She had always had an edge on her, especially whenever there were people listening.
她同意离开，离开她的家。这明智吗？她试图权衡问题的每一面。无论如何，她在家里有住所和食物；她拥有她一生都认识的人。当然，她必须努力工作，无论是在家里还是在生意上。当商店里的人发现她跟一个家伙私奔时，他们会怎么说她？或许可以说她是个傻瓜；她的位置将被广告填补。加文小姐会很高兴的。她总是比她有优势，尤其是当有人倾听的时候。

‘Miss Hill, don’t you see these ladies are waiting?’
“希尔小姐，你没看到这些女士正在等吗？”

‘Look lively, Miss Hill, please.’
“希尔小姐，请表现得活泼一些。”

She would not cry many tears at leaving the Stores.
离开商店时她不会流很多眼泪。

But in her new home, in a distant unknown country, it would not be like that. Then she would be married—she, Eveline. People would treat her with respect then. She would not be treated as her mother had been. Even now, though she was over nineteen, she sometimes felt herself in danger of her father’s violence. She knew it was that that had given her the palpitations. When they were growing up he had never gone for her like he used to go for Harry and Ernest, because she was a girl but latterly he had begun to threaten her and say what he would do to her only for her dead mother’s sake. And no she had nobody to protect her. Ernest was dead and Harry, who was in the church decorating business, was nearly always down somewhere in the country. Besides, the invariable squabble for money on Saturday nights had begun to weary her unspeakably. She always gave her entire wages—seven shillings—and Harry always sent up what he could but the trouble was to get any money from her father. He said she used to squander the money, that she had no head, that he wasn’t going to give her his hard-earned money to throw about the streets, and much more, for he was usually fairly bad on Saturday night. In the end he would give her the money and ask her had she any intention of buying Sunday’s dinner. Then she had to rush out as quickly as she could and do her marketing, holding her black leather purse tightly in her hand as she elbowed her way through the crowds and returning home late under her load of provisions. She had hard work to keep the house together and to see that the two young children who had been left to hr charge went to school regularly and got their meals regularly. It was hard work—a hard life—but now that she was about to leave it she did not find it a wholly undesirable life.
但在她的新家，在一个遥远的未知国度，情况就不会是这样了。然后她就会结婚——她，伊芙琳。那时人们会尊重她。她不会像她母亲那样受到对待。即使现在，尽管她已经十九岁了，她有时仍感到自己面临父亲暴力的危险。她知道正是这个让她心悸。在他们成长的过程中，他从来没有像以前那样追求哈利和欧内斯特，因为她是个女孩，但后来他开始威胁她，说只要看在她死去的母亲的份上他就会对她做什么。不，她没有人保护她。欧内斯特去世了，哈利从事教堂装饰生意，几乎总是在乡下的某个地方。此外，周六晚上无休止的金钱争吵也开始让她感到难以言表的厌倦。她总是把工资全部给了——七先令——哈利也总是尽其所能地寄来，但麻烦的是从她父亲那里拿钱。他说她过去常常挥霍钱，说她没有头脑，说他不会把辛苦赚来的钱给她让她在街上乱扔，等等，因为他在周六晚上通常表现得相当糟糕。最后他会给她钱，并问她是否有意购买周日的晚餐。然后，她必须尽快冲出去进行营销，手里紧紧握着黑色皮包，挤过人群，背着食物很晚才回家。她辛辛苦苦地工作，维持着整个家的秩序，并照顾两个由她照看的孩子按时上学、按时吃饭。 这是艰苦的工作——艰苦的生活——但现在她即将离开它，她并不觉得这是一种完全不受欢迎的生活。

She was about to explore another life with Frank. Frank was very kind, manly, open-hearted. She was to go away with him by the night-boat to be his wife and to live with him in Buenos Ayres where he had a home waiting for her. How well she remembered the first time she had seen him; he was lodging in a house on the main road where she used to visit. It seemed a few weeks ago. He was standing at the gate, his peaked cap pushed back on his head and his hair tumbled forward over a face of bronze. Then they had come to know each other. He used to meet her outside the Stores every evening and see her home. He took her to see The Bohemian Girl and she felt elated as she sat in an unaccustomed part of the theatre with him. He was awfully fond of music and sang a little. People knew that they were courting and, when he sang about the lass that loves a sailor, she always felt pleasantly confused. He used to call her Poppens out of fun. First of all it had been an excitement for her to have a fellow and then she had begun to like him. He had tales of distant countries. He had started as a deck boy at a pound a month on a ship of the Allan Line going out to Canada. He told her the names of the ships he had been on and the names of the different services. He had sailed through the Straits of Magellan and he told her stories of the terrible Patagonians. He had fallen on his feet in Buenos Ayres, he said, and had come over to the old country just for a holiday. Of course, her father had found out the affair and had forbidden her to have anything to say to him.
她即将与弗兰克一起探索另一种生活。弗兰克非常善良、有男子气概、心胸开阔。她要和他一起乘夜船离开，成为他的妻子，并和他一起住在布宜诺斯艾利斯，在那里他有一个家在等着她。她清楚地记得第一次见到他的情景；他住在她常去的主干道上的一所房子里。好像是几周前的事了。他站在门口，鸭舌帽向后推到脑后，头发向前披散，遮住古铜色的脸。然后他们就认识了。他每天晚上都会在商店外与她见面并送她回家。他带她去看《波西米亚女孩》，当她和他一起坐在剧院一个不习惯的地方时，她感到很高兴。他非常喜欢音乐，也唱过一点歌。人们知道他们在求爱，当他唱起爱着水手的少女时，她总是感到愉快的困惑。他曾经出于好玩而叫她波彭斯。首先，有一个男朋友让她感到兴奋，然后她开始喜欢他。他有遥远国家的故事。他最初是在艾伦航运公司一艘开往加拿大的船上当甲板男孩，每月挣一英镑。他告诉她他所乘坐的船只的名称以及不同服务的名称。他航行穿过麦哲伦海峡，向她讲述了可怕的巴塔哥尼亚人的故事。他说，他是在布宜诺斯艾利斯站起来的，来到这个故乡只是为了度假。当然，她的父亲已经发现了这件事，并禁止她对他说任何话。

‘I know these sailor chaps,’ he said.
“我认识这些水手小伙子，”他说。

One day he had quarrelled with Frank and after that she had to meet her lover secretly.
有一天，他和弗兰克吵了一架，之后她不得不秘密会见她的情人。

The evening deepened in the avenue. The white of two letters in her lap grew indistinct. One was to Harry; the other was to her father. Ernest had been her favourite but she liked Harry too. Her father was becoming old lately, she noticed; he would miss her. Sometimes he could be very nice. Not long before, when she had been laid up for a day, he had read her out a ghost story and made toast for her at the fire. Another day, when their mother was alive, they had all gone for a picnic to the Hill of Howth. She remembered her father putting on her mothers bonnet to make the children laugh.
大道上的夜色更深了。她腿上的两个字母的白色变得模糊不清。一封是给哈利的，另一封是给哈利的。另一个是给她父亲的。欧内斯特是她的最爱，但她也喜欢哈利。她注意到，她的父亲最近变老了。他会想念她的。有时他可能非常友善。不久前，她躺了一天，他给她念了一个鬼故事，还在火边给她烤了面包。有一天，当他们的母亲还活着的时候，他们全都去霍斯山野餐。她记得父亲戴上母亲的帽子让孩子们开怀大笑。

Her time was running out but she continued to sit by the window, leaning her head against the window curtain, inhaling the odour of dusty cretonne. Down far in the avenue she could hear a street organ playing. She knew the air Strange that it should come that very night to remind her of the promise to her mother, her promise to keep the home together as long as she could. She remembered the last night of her mother’s illness; she was again in the close dark room at the other side of the hall and outside she heard a melancholy air of Italy. The organ-player had been ordered to go away and given sixpence. She remembered her father strutting back into the sickroom saying:
她的时间已经不多了，但她仍然坐在窗边，头靠在窗帘上，呼吸着布满灰尘的印花布的气味。在大街远处，她能听到街头风琴的演奏声。她知道这空气很奇怪，那天晚上它就来提醒她对母亲的承诺，她承诺尽可能长久地维持这个家。她还记得母亲生病的最后一晚。她又来到了大厅另一边那间封闭的黑暗房间里，外面传来意大利忧郁的空气。管风琴演奏者被勒令离开，并给了六便士。她记得父亲大步走回病房时说道：

‘Damned Italians! coming over here!’
“该死的意大利人！过来这里！

As she mused the pitiful vision of her mother’s life laid its spell on the very quick of her being—that life of commonplace sacrifices closing in final craziness. She trembled as she heard again her mother’s voice saying constantly with foolish insistence:
当她沉思时，母亲一生的悲惨景象深深地影响了她的生命——那种平凡的牺牲最终以疯狂结束的生活。当她再次听到母亲的声音时，她颤抖着，不断地愚蠢地坚持说：

‘Derevaun Seraun! Derevaun Seraun!’
‘德莱文·塞伦！ Derevaun Seraun！’

She stood up in a sudden impulse of terror. Escape! She must escape! Frank would save her. He would give her life, perhaps love, too. But she wanted to live. Why should she be unhappy? She had a right to happiness. Frank would take her in his arms, fold her in his arms. He would save her.
她突然感到一阵恐惧，站了起来。逃脱！她必须逃！弗兰克会救她的。他会给她生命，也许还有爱。但她想活下去。她为什么要不高兴呢？她有权利获得幸福。弗兰克会把她抱在怀里，把她搂在怀里。他会救她。

She stood among the swaying crowd in the station at the North Wall. He held her hand and she knew that he was speaking to her, saying something about the passage over and over again. The station was full of soldiers with brown baggages. Through the wide doors of the sheds she caught a glimpse of the black mass of the boat, lying in beside the quay wall, with illumined portholes. She answered nothing. She felt her cheek pale and cold and, out of a maze of distress, she prayed to God to direct her, to show her what was her duty. The boat blew a long mournful whistle into the mist. If she went, tomorrow she would be on the sea with Frank, steaming towards Buenos Ayres. Their passage had been booked. Could she still draw back after all he had done for her? Her distress awoke a nausea in her body and she kept moving her lips in silent fervent prayer.
她站在北墙车站里摇曳的人群之中。他握着她的手，她知道他在对她说话，一遍又一遍地说着这段话。车站里挤满了带着棕色行李的士兵。透过棚屋的宽门，她瞥见了那艘黑色的船，停在码头墙边，舷窗发光。她什么也没回答。她感到自己的脸颊苍白冰冷，从痛苦的迷宫中，她祈求上帝指引她，告诉她她的职责是什么。小船在雾气中吹响了一声长长的悲鸣。如果她去了，明天她就会和弗兰克一起出海，驶向布宜诺斯艾利斯。他们的船票已被预订。他为她做了这么多，她还能退缩吗？她的痛苦使她的身体感到恶心，她不停地动着嘴唇，默默地热切地祈祷。

A bell clanged upon her heart. She felt him seize her hand:
铃声敲响了她的心。她感觉到他抓住了她的手：

‘Come!’
'来！'

All the seas of the world tumbled about her heart. He was drawing her into them: he would drown her. She gripped with both hands at the iron railing.
世界上所有的海洋都在她的心上翻腾。他正在把她拉进去：他要把她淹死。她双手抓住铁栏杆。

‘Come!’
'来！'

No! No! No! It was impossible. Her hands clutched the iron in frenzy. Amid the seas she sent a cry of anguish.
不！不！不！这是不可能的。她的双手疯狂地抓住熨斗。她在大海中发出了痛苦的呼喊。

‘Eveline! Evvy!’
‘伊芙琳！艾维！’

He rushed beyond the barrier and called to her to follow. He was shouted at to go on but he still called to her. She set her white face to him, passive, like a helpless animal. Her eyes gave him no sign of love or farewell or recognition.
他冲过栅栏，叫她跟上。有人喊他继续，但他仍然喊她。她把苍白的脸转向他，被动，像一只无助的动物。她的眼睛没有给他任何爱、告别或认可的迹象。

After the Race
比赛结束后

THE cars came scudding in towards Dublin, running evenly like pellets in the groove of the Naas Road. At the crest of the hill at Inchicore sightseers had gathered in clumps to watch the cars careering homeward and through this channel of poverty and inaction the Continent sped its wealth and industry. Now and again the clumps of people raised the cheer of the gratefully oppressed. Their sympathy, however, was for the blue cars—the cars of their friends, the French.
汽车像纳斯路的凹槽中的颗粒一样均匀地驶向都柏林。在英奇科山顶上，观光客们聚集在一起，观看汽车疾驰归途，通过这条贫困和无所作为的通道，欧洲大陆加速了其财富和工业的发展。人群中时不时地激起那些心存感激的受压迫者的欢呼声。然而，他们的同情心是蓝色的汽车——他们的朋友法国人的汽车。

The French, moreover, were virtual victors. Their team had finished solidly; they had been placed second and third and the driver of the winning German car was reported a Belgian. Each blue car, therefore, received a double measure of welcome as it topped the crest of the hill and each cheer of welcome was acknowledged with smiles and nods by those in the car. In one of these trimly built cars was a party of four young men whose spirits seemed to be at present well above the level of successful Gallicism: in fact, these four young men were almost hilarious. They were Charles Segouin, the owner of the car; Andre Riviere, a young electrician of Canadian birth; a huge Hungarian named Villona and a neatly groomed young man named Doyle. Segouin was in good humour because he had unexpectedly received some orders in advance (he was about to start a motor establishment in Paris) and Riviere was in good humour because he was to be appointed manager of the establishment; these two young men (who were cousins) were also in good humour because of the success of the French cars. Villona was in good humour because he had had a very satisfactory luncheon; and besides he was an optimist by nature. The fourth member of the party, however, was too excited to be genuinely happy.
此外，法国人实际上是胜利者。他们的队伍以稳定的成绩完成了比赛；他们分别获得第二和第三名，据报道获胜的德国赛车的车手是比利时人。因此，每辆蓝色汽车在登上山顶时都受到了双重欢迎，每一次欢迎欢呼都得到了车内人员的微笑和点头。其中一辆精致的汽车里坐着四个年轻人，他们的精神状态目前似乎远远高于成功的法国人的水平：事实上，这四个年轻人几乎是搞笑的。他们是查尔斯·塞古安（Charles Segouin），这辆车的车主；安德烈·里维埃 (Andre Riviere)，一位出生于加拿大的年轻电工；一个名叫维洛纳（Villona）的高大匈牙利人和一个名叫多伊尔（Doyle）的打扮整洁的年轻人。塞古安心情很好，因为他意外地提前收到了一些订单（他即将在巴黎开办一家汽车工厂），里维埃心情很好，因为他将被任命为该工厂的经理；这两个年轻人（他们是表兄弟）也因为法国汽车的成功而心情愉快。维罗纳心情很好，因为他吃了一顿非常满意的午餐。此外，他生性乐观。然而，第四位成员却太兴奋了，没有真正的高兴。

He was about twenty-six years of age, with a soft, light brown moustache and rather innocent-looking grey eyes. His father, who had begun life as an advanced Nationalist, had modified his views early. He had made his money as a butcher in Kingstown and by opening shops in Dublin and in the suburbs he had made his money many times over. He had also been fortunate enough to secure some of the police contracts and in the end he had become rich enough to be alluded to in the Dublin newspapers as a merchant prince. He had sent his son to England to be educated in a big Catholic college and had afterwards sent him to Dublin University to study law. Jimmy did not study very earnestly and took to bad courses for a while. He had money and he was popular; and he divided his time curiously between musical and motoring circles. Then he had been sent for a term to Cambridge to see a little life. His father, remonstrative, but covertly proud of the excess, had paid his bills and brought him home. It was at Cambridge that he had met Segouin. They were not much more than acquaintances as yet but Jimmy found great pleasure in the society of one who had seen so much of the world and was reputed to own some of the biggest hotels in France. Such a person (as his father agreed) was well worth knowing, even if he had not been the charming companion he was. Villona was entertaining also—a brilliant pianist—but, unfortunately, very poor.
他大约二十六岁，留着柔软的浅棕色小胡子，灰色的眼睛看上去相当天真。他的父亲作为一名先进的国民党人，很早就改变了他的观点。他在金斯敦当屠夫赚了钱，通过在都柏林和郊区开商店，他赚了很多倍的钱。他还很幸运地获得了一些警察合同，最终他变得足够富有，被都柏林报纸称为商业王子。他把他的儿子送到英国一所大型天主教大学接受教育，后来又把他送到都柏林大学学习法律。吉米学习不认真，有一段时间选了不好的课程。他有钱而且很受欢迎；他奇怪地将自己的时间分配在音乐界和汽车界。然后他被送到剑桥去见识一下小生活。他的父亲虽然表示抗议，但暗地里对他的过度行为感到自豪，为他付了账单并带他回家。他是在剑桥认识了塞古安。他们还只是熟人，但吉米在与一个见识过很多世界并被誉为拥有法国一些最大酒店的人相处时感到非常高兴。这样的人（正如他父亲所同意的那样）非常值得认识，即使他并不是一个迷人的伴侣。维洛纳（Villona）也是一位才华横溢的钢琴家，很有趣，但不幸的是，他很穷。

The car ran on merrily with its cargo of hilarious youth. The two cousins sat on the front seat; Jimmy and his Hungarian friend sat behind. Decidedly Villona was in excellent spirits; he kept up a deep bass hum of melody for miles of the road The Frenchmen flung their laughter and light words over their shoulders and often Jimmy had to strain forward to catch the quick phrase. This was not altogether pleasant for him, as he had nearly always to make a deft guess at the meaning and shout back a suitable answer in the face of a high wind. Besides Villona’s humming would confuse anybody; the noise of the car, too.
汽车载着欢闹的年轻人快乐地行驶着。两个堂兄弟坐在前排座位上。吉米和他的匈牙利朋友坐在后面。毫无疑问，维洛纳的精神状态非常好。他在数英里的路上一直保持着低沉的低音嗡嗡声。法国人把他们的笑声和轻快的话语抛在肩上，吉米常常不得不向前努力才能听清这句快速的短语。这对他来说并不完全是令人愉快的，因为他几乎总是要在狂风中巧妙地猜测含义并喊出合适的答案。此外，维罗纳的嗡嗡声会让任何人感到困惑。汽车的噪音也是如此。

Rapid motion through space elates one; so does notoriety; so does the possession of money. These were three good reasons for Jimmy’s excitement. He had been seen by many of his friends that day in the company of these Continentals. At the control Segouin had presented him to one of the French competitors and, in answer to his confused murmur of compliment, the swarthy face of the driver had disclosed a line of shining white teeth. It was pleasant after that honour to return to the profane world of spectators amid nudges and significant looks. Then as to money—he really had a great sum under his control. Segouin, perhaps, would not think it a great sum but Jimmy who, in spite of temporary errors, was at heart the inheritor of solid instincts knew well with what difficulty it had been got together. This knowledge had previously kept his bills within the limits of reasonable recklessness, and if he had been so conscious of the labour latent in money when there had been question merely of some freak of the higher intelligence, how much more so now when he was about to stake the greater part of his substance! It was a serious thing for him.
太空中的快速运动让人兴奋；恶名也是如此；拥有金钱也是如此。这是吉米兴奋的三个充分理由。那天，他的许多朋友都看到他和这些大陆人在一起。在控制处，塞古安将他介绍给一位法国车手，作为对他混乱的恭维声的回应，车手黝黑的脸上露出了一排闪亮的白牙。在获得这份荣誉之后，在轻推和引人注目的目光中回到观众的世俗世界是令人愉快的。那么说到钱，他确实掌握着一大笔钱。塞古安也许不会认为这是一笔大数目，但吉米尽管犯了暂时的错误，但本质上是坚实本能的继承者，他很清楚这是多么困难的事情。这些知识以前使他的账单保持在合理鲁莽的限度内，如果当他仅仅对更高智力的某些怪胎提出疑问时，他就如此意识到金钱中潜藏的劳动，那么现在当他大约赌上他的大部分财产！这对他来说是一件严肃的事情。

Of course, the investment was a good one and Segouin had managed to give the impression that it was by a favour of friendship the mite of Irish money was to be included in the capital of the concern. Jimmy had a respect for his father’s shrewdness in business matters and in this case it had been his father who had first suggested the investment; money to be made in the motor business, pots of money. Moreover Segouin had the unmistakable air of wealth. Jimmy set out to translate into days’ work that lordly car in which he sat. How smoothly it ran. In what style they had come careering along the country roads! The journey laid a magical finger on the genuine pulse of life and gallantly the machinery of human nerves strove to answer the bounding courses of the swift blue animal.
当然，这项投资是一笔不错的投资，塞古安设法给人留下这样的印象：爱尔兰的一小笔钱被纳入该公司的资本中，是出于友谊的恩惠。吉米很尊重他父亲在商业事务上的精明，在这种情况下，是他的父亲首先建议进行这项投资的。汽车生意能赚大钱，赚大钱。此外，塞古安有着明显的财富气息。吉米开始将他所坐的那辆豪华汽车转化为几天的工作。跑得多么顺利啊。他们沿着乡间小路狂奔而来！这段旅程神奇地触动了生命的真正脉搏，人类神经机器勇敢地努力回应这只敏捷的蓝色动物的跳跃路线。

They drove down Dame Street. The street was busy with unusual traffic, loud with the horns of motorists and the gongs of impatient tram-drivers. Near the Bank Segouin drew up and Jimmy and his friend alighted. A little knot of people collected on the footpath to pay homage to the snorting motor. The party was to dine together that evening in Segouin’s hotel and, meanwhile, Jimmy and his friend, who was staying with him, were to go home to dress. The car steered out slowly for Grafton Street while the two young men pushed their way through the knot of gazers. They walked northward with a curious feeling of disappointment in the exercise, while the city hung its pale globes of light above them in a haze of summer evening.
他们沿着达姆街行驶。街上交通异常繁忙，驾车者的喇叭声和不耐烦的电车司机的锣声响亮。塞古因在银行附近停下来，吉米和他的朋友下了车。一小群人聚集在人行道上，向那台呼啸而过的发动机致敬。当天晚上，聚会将在塞古因的酒店一起用餐，同时，吉米和他的朋友（和他住在一起）要回家穿衣服。汽车缓缓驶向格拉夫顿街，两个年轻人在人群中挤过。他们向北走，带着对演习的一种奇怪的失望感，而这座城市在夏日傍晚的薄雾中，在他们头顶上悬挂着苍白的光球。

In Jimmy’s house this dinner had been pronounced an occasion. A certain pride mingled with his parents’ trepidation, a certain eagerness, also, to play fast and loose for the names of great foreign cities have at least this virtue. Jimmy, too, looked very well when he was dressed and, as he stood in the hall giving a last equation to the bows of his dress tie, his father may have felt even commercially satisfied at having secured for his son qualities often unpurchaseable. His father, therefore, was unusually friendly with Villona and his manner expressed a real respect for foreign accomplishments; but this subtlety of his host was probably lost upon the Hungarian, who was beginning to have a sharp desire for his dinner.
在吉米家里，这次晚餐被认为是一个场合。他父母的惶恐中夹杂着某种自豪感，还有一种对随意发挥的渴望，因为外国大城市的名字至少具有这种美德。吉米穿好衣服后看起来也非常漂亮，当他站在大厅里对礼服领带的蝴蝶结给出最后一个方程式时，他的父亲可能甚至在商业上感到满意，因为他为儿子保证了通常无法买到的品质。因此，他的父亲对维洛纳异常友好，他的举止表达了对外国成就的真正尊重。但这位匈牙利人可能没有注意到东道主的这种微妙，他开始对晚餐产生了强烈的渴望。

The dinner was excellent, exquisite. Segouin, Jimmy decided, had a very refined taste. The party was increased by a young Englishman named Routh whom Jimmy had seen with Segouin at Cambridge. The young men supped in a snug room lit by electric candle lamps. They talked volubly and with little reserve. Jimmy, whose imagination was kindling, conceived the lively youth of the Frenchmen twined elegantly upon the firm framework of the Englishman’s manner. A graceful image of his, he thought, and a just one. He admired the dexterity with which their host directed the conversation. The five young men had various tastes and their tongues had been loosened. Villona, with immense respect, began to discover to the mildly surprised Englishman the beauties of the English madrigal, deploring the loss of old instruments. Riviere, not wholly ingenuously, undertook to explain to Jimmy the triumph of the French mechanicians. The resonant voice of the Hungarian was about to prevail in ridicule of the spurious lutes of the romantic painters when Segouin shepherded his party into politics. Here was congenial ground for all. Jimmy, under generous influences, felt the buried zeal of his father wake to life within him: he aroused the torpid Routh at last. The room grew doubly hot and Segouin’s task grew harder each moment: there was even danger of personal spite. The alert host at an opportunity lifted his glass to Humanity and, when the toast had been drunk, he threw open a window significantly.
晚餐非常丰盛，精致。吉米认为，塞古安的品味非常高雅。一个名叫劳斯的年轻英国人增加了聚会的人数，吉米在剑桥见过他和塞古因在一起。年轻人在一间舒适的房间里吃晚饭，房间里有电烛灯。他们滔滔不绝地交谈，毫无保留。吉米的想象力很丰富，他把法国人的活泼青春优雅地缠绕在英国人坚定的举止框架上。他想，这就是他的优雅形象，而且是公正的形象。他钦佩主人巧妙地引导谈话。五个年轻人口味各异，舌头都松了。维洛纳怀着极大的敬意，开始向这个略感惊讶的英国人发现英国牧歌的美丽，并对旧乐器的丢失感到遗憾。里维埃并不完全天真地向吉米解释了法国机械师的胜利。当塞古安带领他的政党进入政治时，匈牙利人的响亮声音即将在嘲笑浪漫主义画家的虚假鲁特琴中盛行。这里是所有人都喜欢的地方。吉米在慷慨的影响下，感觉到父亲埋藏的热情在他内心苏醒了：他终于唤醒了麻木的劳斯。房间里变得加倍炎热，塞古安的任务每时每刻都变得更加艰巨：甚至存在个人怨恨的危险。机敏的主人一有机会就向人类举起酒杯，当干杯喝完后，他大大地打开了一扇窗户。

That night the city wore the mask of a capital. The five young men strolled along Stephen’s Green in a faint cloud of aromatic smoke. They talked loudly and gaily and their cloaks dangled from their shoulders. The people made way for them. At the corner of Grafton Street a short fat man was putting two handsome ladies on a car in charge of another fat man. The car drove off and the short fat man caught sight of the party.
那天晚上，这座城市戴着首都的面具。五个年轻人在淡淡的芳香烟雾中沿着斯蒂芬绿地漫步。他们大声而愉快地交谈，斗篷从肩上垂下来。人们给他们让路。在格拉夫顿街的拐角处，一个矮胖子正把两个漂亮的女士塞上一辆车，由另一个胖子负责。车子开走了，矮胖子看到了一行人。

‘Andre.’
“安德烈。”

‘It’s Farley!’
“是法利！”

A torrent of talk followed. Farley was an American. No one knew very well what the talk was about. Villona and Riviere were the noisiest, but all the men were excited. They got up on a car, squeezing themselves together amid much laughter. They drove by the crowd, blended now into soft colours, to a music of merry bells. They took the train at Westland Row and in a few seconds, as it seemed to Jimmy, they were walking out of Kingstown Station. The ticket-collector saluted Jimmy; he was an old man:
接下来是滔滔不绝的谈话。法利是美国人。没有人很清楚这次谈话的内容。维洛纳和里维埃是最吵闹的，但所有的人都很兴奋。他们上了车，挤在一起，哈哈大笑。他们伴随着欢快的钟声，驶过人群，融入柔和的色彩。他们在韦斯特兰街乘坐火车，几秒钟后，吉米觉得他们就走出了金斯敦车站。检票员向吉米敬礼。他是个老人：

‘Fine night, sir!’
“晚安，先生！”

It was a serene summer night; the harbour lay like a darkened mirror at their feet. They proceeded towards it with linked arms, singing Cadet Roussel in chorus, stamping their feet at every:
那是一个宁静的夏夜；港口像一面黑暗的镜子一样躺在他们脚下。他们手挽手朝它走去，合唱着《学员鲁塞尔》，每一次都跺着脚：

‘Ho! Ho! Hohe, vraiment!’
‘嗬！嗬！呵呵，衣服！’

They got into a rowboat at the slip and made out for the American’s yacht. There was to be supper, music, cards. Villona said with conviction:
他们在滑道处上了一艘划艇，向美国人的游艇驶去。要有晚饭、音乐、打牌。维罗纳坚定地说：

‘It is delightful!’
“真是令人愉快！”

There was a yacht piano in the cabin. Villona played a waltz for Farley and Riviere, Farley acting as cavalier and Riviere as lady. Then an impromptu square dance, the men devising original figures. What merriment! Jimmy took his part with a will; this was seeing life, at least. Then Farley got out of breath and cried ‘Stop!’ A man brought in a light supper, and the young men sat down to it for form’s sake. They drank, however: it was Bohemian. They drank Ireland, England, France, Hungary, the United States of America. Jimmy made a speech, a long speech, Villona saying: ‘Hear! hear!’ whenever there was a pause. There was a great clapping of hands when he sat down. It must have been a good speech. Farley clapped him on the back and laughed loudly. What jovial fellows! What good company they were!
船舱里有一架游艇钢琴。维洛纳为法利和里维埃演奏了一首华尔兹，法利扮演骑士，里维埃扮演女士。然后是即兴的广场舞，男人们设计出原创的人物造型。多么欢乐啊！吉米自愿参与其中。至少这是看到生活。然后法利气喘吁吁地喊道：“停下来！”一个男人送来了一顿清淡的晚餐，年轻人只是为了形式而坐下来吃。然而，他们喝酒：这是波西米亚风格的。他们喝爱尔兰、英国、法国、匈牙利、美利坚合众国的酒。吉米发表了演讲，一篇很长的演讲，维罗纳说：‘听着！听到！”每当有停顿的时候。当他坐下时，一阵热烈的掌声响起。这一定是一场很好的演讲。法利拍着他的背，放声大笑。多么快乐的伙伴啊！他们是多么好的伙伴啊！

Cards! cards! The table was cleared. Villona returned quietly to his piano and played voluntaries for them. The other men played game after game, flinging themselves boldly into the adventure. They drank the health of the Queen of Hearts and of the Queen of Diamonds. Jimmy felt obscurely the lack of an audience: the wit was flashing. Play ran very high and paper began to pass. Jimmy did not know exactly who was winning but he knew that he was losing. But it was his own fault for he frequently mistook his cards and the other men had to calculate his I.O.U.’s for him. They were devils of fellows but he wished they would stop: it was getting late. Someone gave the toast of the yacht The Belle of Newport and then someone proposed one great game for a finish.
牌！牌！桌子被清理干净了。维罗纳静静地回到钢琴前，为他们弹奏志愿曲。其他人玩了一场又一场，勇敢地投入到冒险中。他们为红心皇后和方块皇后的健康干杯。吉米隐隐约约地感觉到缺乏观众：他的智慧在闪烁。比赛进行得很顺利，纸开始通过。吉米不知道到底谁赢了，但他知道自己输了。但这是他自己的错，因为他经常弄错牌，其他人不得不帮他算欠条。他们都是恶魔，但他希望他们停下来：已经晚了。有人为“纽波特美女”号游艇祝酒，然后有人提议用一场精彩的比赛来结束比赛。

The piano had stopped; Villona must have gone up on deck. It was a terrible game. They stopped just before the end of it to drink for luck. Jimmy understood that the game lay between Routh and Segouin. What excitement! Jimmy was excited too; he would lose, of course. How much had he written away? The men rose to their feet to play the last tricks. talking and gesticulating. Routh won. The cabin shook with the young men’s cheering and the cards were bundled together. They began then to gather in what they had won. Farley and Jimmy were the heaviest losers.
钢琴声已经停了；维洛纳肯定已经上甲板了。这是一场糟糕的比赛。他们在比赛即将结束时停下来喝酒以求好运。吉米明白，这场比赛是在劳斯和塞古因之间进行的。多么兴奋啊！吉米也很兴奋。当然，他会输。他写了多少钱？男人们站起来玩最后的把戏。说话和打手势。劳斯赢了。小屋随着年轻人的欢呼而震动，卡片被捆绑在一起。然后他们开始收集他们所赢得的东西。法利和吉米是输家最惨重的。

He knew that he would regret in the morning but at present he was glad of the rest, glad of the dark stupor that would cover up his folly. He leaned his elbows on the table and rested his head between his hands, counting the beats of his temples. The cabin door opened and he saw the Hungarian standing in a shaft of grey light:
他知道早上他会后悔，但现在他很高兴能休息，很高兴黑暗的昏迷会掩盖他的愚蠢。他把胳膊肘撑在桌子上，把头枕在双手之间，数着太阳穴的跳动。舱门打开，他看到匈牙利人站在一缕灰光中：

‘Daybreak, gentlemen!’
“天亮了，先生们！”

Two Gallants
两个豪侠

THE grey warm evening of August had descended upon the city and a mild warm air, a memory of summer, circulated in the streets. The streets, shuttered for the repose of Sunday, swarmed with a gaily coloured crowd. Like illumined pearls the lamps shone from the summits of their tall poles upon the living texture below which, changing shape and hue unceasingly, sent up into the warm grey evening air an unchanging unceasing murmur.
八月的灰暗温暖的傍晚降临在这座城市上，一股温和温暖的空气，一种夏天的记忆，在街道上流通。周日休息时，街道上挤满了色彩缤纷的人群。灯像发光的珍珠一样，从高高的灯杆顶端照射到下面的生机勃勃的纹理上，不断变化的形状和色调，向温暖的灰色夜晚空气中发出不变的、不断的低语。

Two young men came down the hill of Rutland Square. On of them was just bringing a long monologue to a close. The other, who walked on the verge of the path and was at times obliged to step on to the road, owing to his companion’s rudeness, wore an amused listening face. He was squat and ruddy. A yachting cap was shoved far back from his forehead and the narrative to which he listened made constant waves of expression break forth over his face from the corners of his nose and eyes and mouth. Little jets of wheezing laughter followed one another out of his convulsed body. His eyes, twinkling with cunning enjoyment, glanced at every moment towards his companion’s face. Once or twice he rearranged the light waterproof which he had slung over one shoulder in toreador fashion. His breeches, his white rubber shoes and his jauntily slung waterproof expressed youth. But his figure fell into rotundity at the waist, his hair was scant and grey and his face, when the waves of expression had passed over it, had a ravaged look.
两个年轻人从拉特兰广场的山上下来。其中一个人刚刚结束了一段长篇独白。另一个人走在小路边上，有时由于同伴的粗鲁而不得不走上大路，脸上挂着有趣的倾听表情。他身材矮胖，面色红润。一顶游艇帽被推到离额头很远的地方，他听到的叙述让他的脸上不断地从鼻角、眼睛和嘴角涌出一波又一波的表情。一阵阵喘息般的笑声接连从他抽搐的身体里传出。他的眼睛闪烁着狡黠的享受，每时每刻都盯着同伴的脸。有一两次，他重新整理了一下以斗牛士的方式挂在肩上的轻便防水衣。他的马裤、白色橡胶鞋和潇洒地穿着的防水鞋都表现出青春的气息。但他的身材腰部变得圆滚滚的，头发稀疏而灰白，当表情的波涛掠过他的脸时，他的脸上露出了一种被摧残的表情。

When he was quite sure that the narrative had ended he laughed noiselessly for fully half a minute. Then he said:
当他确信故事已经结束时，他无声地笑了整整半分钟。然后他说：

‘Well!... That takes the biscuit!’
“好吧！……那就需要饼干了！”

His voice seemed winnowed of vigour; and to enforce his words he added with humour:
他的声音显得充满活力。为了强化他的话，他幽默地补充道：

‘That takes the solitary, unique, and, if I may so call it, recherche biscuit! ‘
“这需要孤独的、独特的、如果我可以这样称呼它的话，recherche 饼干！” '

He became serious and silent when he had said this. His tongue was tired for he had been talking all the afternoon in a public-house in Dorset Street. Most people considered Lenehan a leech but, in spite of this reputation, his adroitness and eloquence had always prevented his friends from forming any general policy against him. He had a brave manner of coming up to a party of them in a bar and of holding himself nimbly at the borders of the company until he was included in a round. He was a sporting vagrant armed with a vast stock of stories, limericks and riddles. He was insensitive to all kinds of discourtesy. No one knew how he achieved the stern task of living, but his name was vaguely associated with racing tissues.
说完这句话，他神色严肃，沉默不语。他的舌头很累，因为他在多塞特街的一家酒馆里聊了整个下午。大多数人认为莱尼汉是水蛭，但尽管有这样的名声，他的机敏和口才始终阻止他的朋友制定任何反对他的总体政策。他勇敢地来到酒吧参加他们的聚会，并灵活地保持自己在公司的边界，直到他被纳入一轮。他是一名体育流浪者，拥有大量的故事、打油诗和谜语。他对各种无礼行为都麻木不仁。没有人知道他是如何完成艰巨的生存任务的，但他的名字隐约与赛车组织联系在一起。

‘And where did you pick her up, Corley?’ he asked.
“科利，你在哪里接她的？”他问道。

Corley ran his tongue swiftly along his upper lip.
科利用舌头快速地舔过上唇。

‘One night, man,’ he said, ‘I was going along Dame Street and I spotted a fine tart under Waterhouse’s clock and said goodnight, you know. So we went for a walk round by the canal and she told me she was a slavey in a house in Baggot Street. I put my arm round her and squeezed her a bit that night. Then next Sunday, man, I met her by appointment. We vent out to Donnybrook and I brought her into a field there. She told me she used to go with a dairyman.... It was fine, man. Cigarettes every night she’d bring me and paying the tram out and back. And one night she brought me two bloody fine cigars—O, the real cheese, you know, that the old fellow used to smoke.... I was afraid, man, she’d get in the family way. But she’s up to the dodge.’
“一天晚上，伙计，”他说，“我沿着达姆街走，发现沃特豪斯的钟下有一个漂亮的馅饼，我就道了晚安，你知道。”于是我们在运河边散步，她告诉我她是巴格特街一所房子里的奴隶。那天晚上，我用手臂搂住她，轻轻地挤压了她。然后下周日，伙计，我按约见了她。我们向唐尼布鲁克发泄，我把她带到了那里的一块田地里。她告诉我她曾经和一个奶牛场老板一起去……那很好，伙计。每天晚上她都会给我带来香烟，并支付往返电车费。一天晚上，她给我带来了两支该死的优质雪茄——哦，真正的奶酪，你知道，那个老家伙以前抽过的……我担心，老兄，她会妨碍家庭。但她有能力躲闪。

‘Maybe she thinks you’ll marry her,’ said Lenehan.
“也许她认为你会娶她，”莱内汉说。

‘I told her I was out of a job,’ said Corley. ‘I told her I was in Pim’s. She doesn’t know my name. I was too hairy to tell her that. But she thinks I’m a bit of class, you know.’
“我告诉她我失业了，”科利说。 “我告诉她我在皮姆家。她不知道我的名字。我太毛茸茸的，无法告诉她这些。但她认为我有点上流，你知道。”

Lenehan laughed again, noiselessly.
莱纳汉又笑了，无声无息。

‘Of all the good ones ever I heard,’ he said, ‘that emphatically takes the biscuit.’
“在我听过的所有好话中，”他说，“这绝对是最受好评的。”

Corley’s stride acknowledged the compliment. The swing of his burly body made his friend execute a few light skips from the path to the roadway and back again. Corley was the son of an inspector of police and he had inherited his father’s frame and gut. He walked with his hands by his sides, holding himself erect and swaying his head from side to side. His head was large, globular and oily; it sweated in all weathers; and his large round hat, set upon it sideways, looked like a bulb which had grown out of another. He always stared straight before him as if he were on parade and, when he wished to gaze after someone in the street, it was necessary for him to move his body from the hips. At present he was about town. Whenever any job was vacant a friend was always ready to give him the hard word. He was often to be seen walking with policemen in plain clothes, talking earnestly. He knew the inner side of all affairs and was fond of delivering final judgments. He spoke without listening to the speech of his companions. His conversation was mainly about himself what he had said to such a person and what such a person had said to him and what he had said to settle the matter. When he reported these dialogues he aspirated the first letter of his name after the manner of Florentines.
科利的步伐表示对这一赞美的认可。他魁梧的身体的摆动让他的朋友在小路和马路之间轻轻地跳跃了几次。科利是一名警察督察的儿子，他继承了父亲的体格和直觉。他走路时双手放在身体两侧，身体挺直，头左右摇摆。他的头很大，呈球形，油腻腻的。无论天气如何，它都会出汗；他那顶大圆帽子斜戴在上面，看上去就像是从另一个灯泡里长出来的。他总是直视前方，就像在游行一样，当他想盯着街上的某个人时，他必须把身体从臀部移开。目前他正在城里。每当有职位空缺时，朋友总是会严厉批评他。人们经常看到他与便衣警察一起行走，认真交谈。他了解事物的内幕，喜欢做出最终的判断。他没有在意同伴的讲话，而是开口说道。他的谈话主要是关于他自己，他对这样的人说了些什么，这样的人对他说了些什么，以及他为了解决这件事所说的话。当他报告这些对话时，他按照佛罗伦萨人的方式呼出了自己名字的第一个字母。

Lenehan offered his friend a cigarette. As the two young men walked on through the crowd Corley occasionally turned to smile at some of the passing girls but Lenehan’s gaze was fixed on the large faint moon circled with a double halo. He watched earnestly the passing of the grey web of twilight across its face. At length he said:
莱内汉递给他的朋友一支香烟。当这两个年轻人穿过人群时，科利偶尔会转身对一些路过的女孩微笑，但莱尼汉的目光却固定在那颗环绕着双光晕的大月亮上。他认真地注视着暮色的灰色网掠过它的脸。最后他说：

‘Well... tell me, Corley, I suppose you’ll be able to pull it off all right, eh?’
“好吧……告诉我，科利，我想你一定能成功，嗯？”

Corley closed one eye expressively as an answer.
科利表情丰富地闭上一只眼睛作为回答。

‘Is she game for that?’ asked Lenehan dubiously. ‘You can never know women.’
“她愿意这么做吗？”莱内汉怀疑地问。 “你永远无法了解女人。”

‘She’s all right,’ said Corley. ‘I know the way to get around her, man. She’s a bit gone on me.’
“她没事，”科利说。 “我知道如何绕过她，伙计。她有点不喜欢我了。

‘You’re what I call a gay Lothario,’ said Lenehan. ‘And the proper kind of a Lothario, too!’
“你就是我所说的同性恋色狼，”莱内汉说。 “还有真正的色狼！”

A shade of mockery relieved the servility of his manner. To save himself he had the habit of leaving his flattery open to the interpretation of raillery. But Corley had not a subtle mind.
一丝嘲讽缓解了他态度中的奴性。为了拯救自己，他习惯于把他的奉承留给嘲笑的解释。但科利的头脑并不敏锐。

‘There’s nothing to touch a good slavey,’ he affirmed. ‘Take my tip for it.’
“没有什么可以触动一个好的奴隶，”他断言。 “接受我的小费吧。”

‘By one who has tried them all,’ said Lenehan.
“由一个尝试过所有这些方法的人来写，”莱内汉说。

‘First I used to go with girls, you know,’ said Corley, unbosoming; ‘girls off the South Circular. I used to take them out, man, on the tram somewhere and pay the tram or take them to a band or a play at the theatre or buy them chocolate and sweets or something that way. I used to spend money on them right enough,’ he added, in a convincing tone, as if he was conscious of being disbelieved.
“一开始我常常和女孩子一起去，你知道，”科利毫不客气地说。 “南环线外的女孩们。”我常常带他们出去，伙计，在某个地方的电车上，付电车费，或者带他们去看乐队或去剧院看戏，或者给他们买巧克力和糖果之类的东西。我过去常常在他们身上花钱，”他用令人信服的语气补充道，好像他意识到自己不相信。

But Lenehan could well believe it; he nodded gravely.
但莱纳汉完全可以相信这一点。他严肃地点点头。

‘I know that game,’ he said, ‘and it’s a mug’s game.’
“我知道那个游戏，”他说，“而且这是一场无聊的游戏。”

‘And damn the thing I ever got out of it,’ said Corley.
“该死的，我从中得到了什么，”科利说。

‘Ditto here,’ said Lenehan.
“这里也是如此，”莱内汉说。

‘Only off of one of them,’ said Corley.
“只有其中一个，”科利说。

He moistened his upper lip by running his tongue along it. The recollection brightened his eyes. He too gazed at the pale disc of the moon, now nearly veiled, and seemed to meditate.
他用舌头舔着上唇，润湿了上唇。回忆让他的眼睛变得明亮。他也凝视着苍白的月亮，现在几乎被遮住了，似乎在沉思。

She was... a bit of all right,’ he said regretfully.
她……还好吧，”他遗憾地说。

He was silent again. Then he added:
他又沉默了。然后他补充道：

‘She’s on the turf now. I saw her driving down Earl Street one night with two fellows with her on a car.’
“她现在在草坪上。一天晚上，我看到她开车沿着伯爵街行驶，车上还有两个人。

‘I suppose that’s your doing,’ said Lenehan.
“我想那是你干的，”莱内汉说。

‘There was others at her before me,’ said Corley philosophically.
“在我之前还有其他人在攻击她，”科利富有哲理地说。

This time Lenehan was inclined to disbelieve. He shook his head to and fro and smiled.
这一次，莱内汉有些不相信了。他前后摇摇头，微笑着。

‘You know you can’t kid me, Corley,’ he said.
“你知道你不能欺骗我，科利，”他说。

‘Honest to God!’ said Corley. ‘Didn’t she tell me herself?’
“对上帝说实话！”科利说。 “她不是亲自告诉我的吗？”

Lenehan made a tragic gesture.
莱纳汉做了一个悲惨的手势。

‘Base betrayer!’ he said.
“卑鄙的背叛者！”他说。

As they passed along the railings of Trinity College, Lenehan skipped out into the road and peered up at the clock.
当他们经过三一学院的栏杆时，莱内汉跳到马路上，抬头看着时钟。

‘Twenty after,’ he said.
“二十点后，”他说。

‘Time enough,’ said Corley. ‘She’ll be there all right. I always let her wait a bit.’
“时间足够了，”科利说。 “她一定会在那儿的。”我总是让她等一会儿。

Lenehan laughed quietly.
莱纳汉轻声笑道。

‘Ecod! Corley, you know how to take them,’ he said.
‘艾科德！科利，你知道如何接受它们，”他说。

‘I’m up to all their little tricks,’ Corley confessed.
“他们所有的小伎俩我都得逞了，”科利承认道。

‘But tell me,’ said Lenehan again, ‘are you sure you can bring it off all right? You know it’s a ticklish job. They’re damn close on that point. Eh? ... What?’
“但是告诉我，”莱内汉又说道，“你确定你能成功吗？”你知道这是一项棘手的工作。他们在这一点上非常接近。呃？ ... 什么？'

His bright, small eyes searched his companion’s face for reassurance. Corley swung his head to and fro as if to toss aside an insistent insect, and his brows gathered.
他明亮的小眼睛在同伴的脸上寻找安慰。科利左右摇头，仿佛要甩开一只顽固的昆虫，他的眉毛皱了起来。

‘I’ll pull it off,’ he said. ‘Leave it to me, can’t you?’
“我会成功的，”他说。 “交给我吧，可以吗？”

Lenehan said no more. He did not wish to ruffle his friend’s temper, to be sent to the devil and told that his advice was not wanted. A little tact was necessary. But Corley’s brow was soon smooth again. His thoughts were running another way.
莱纳汉没有再说什么。他不想激怒他朋友的脾气，不想被送去见魔鬼，并告诉他不需要他的建议。一点点机智是必要的。但科利的眉头很快又恢复平静。他的思绪却转向了另一个方向。

‘She’s a fine decent tart,’ he said, with appreciation; ‘that’s what she is.’
“她是个很正派的妓女，”他赞赏地说。 “她就是这样。”

They walked along Nassau Street and then turned into Kildare Street. Not far from the porch of the club a harpist stood in the roadway, playing to a little ring of listeners. He plucked at the wires heedlessly, glancing quickly from time to time at the face of each new-comer and from time to time, wearily also, at the sky. His harp, too, heedless that her coverings had fallen about her knees, seemed weary alike of the eyes of strangers and of her master’s hands. One hand played in the bass the melody of Silent, O Moyle, while the other hand careered in the treble after each group of notes. The notes of the air sounded deep and full.
他们沿着拿骚街走，然后拐进基尔代尔街。离俱乐部门廊不远的地方，巷子里站着一位竖琴手，正在为一小群听众演奏。他漫不经心地拨弄着电线，时不时地快速扫视每个新来者的脸，时不时地，也疲倦地扫视天空。他的竖琴也一样，无视她的被子已经垂到膝盖上，似乎对陌生人的目光和她主人的双手感到厌倦。一只手在低音中演奏 O Moyle 的《Silent》的旋律，而另一只手则在每组音符后猛烈地演奏高音。空气中的音符听起来深沉而饱满。

The two young men walked up the street without speaking, the mournful music following them. When they reached Stephen’s Green they crossed the road. Here the noise of trams, the lights and the crowd released them from their silence.
两个年轻人一言不发地走在街上，悲伤的音乐跟着他们。当他们到达斯蒂芬绿地时，他们穿过马路。在这里，电车的噪音、灯光和人群将他们从沉默中释放出来。

‘There she is!’ said Corley.
“她在那儿！”科利说。

At the corner of Hume Street a young woman was standing. She wore a blue dress and a white sailor hat. She stood on the curbstone, swinging a sunshade in one hand. Lenehan grew lively.
休姆街的拐角处站着一位年轻女子。她穿着蓝色连衣裙，戴着白色水手帽。她站在路边石上，一只手摇晃着遮阳伞。莱内汉变得活泼起来。

‘Let’s have a look at her, Corley,’ he said.
“让我们看看她，科利，”他说。

Corley glanced sideways at his friend and an unpleasant grin appeared on his face.
科利斜眼看了他的朋友一眼，脸上露出了不愉快的笑容。

‘Are you trying to get inside me?’ he asked.
“你想进入我体内吗？”他问道。

‘Damn it!’ said Lenehan boldly, ‘I don’t want an introduction. All I want is to have a look at her. I’m not going to eat her.’
“该死！”莱内汉大胆地说，“我不需要介绍。”我只想看看她。我不会吃掉她。

‘O ... A look at her?’ said Corley, more amiably. ‘Well... I’ll tell you what. I’ll go over and talk to her and you can pass by.’
“噢……看看她？”科利更加和蔼可亲地说。 ‘好吧……我告诉你什么。我去跟她谈谈，你就可以过去了。”

‘Right!’ said Lenehan.
“对！”莱内汉说。

Corley had already thrown one leg over the chains when Lenehan called out:
当莱内汉喊道时，科利已经把一条腿扔到了铁链上：

‘And after? Where will we meet?’
'之后？我们在哪里见面？'

‘Half ten,’ answered Corley, bringing over his other leg.
“十点半，”科利回答道，同时伸出了另一条腿。

‘Where?’
'在哪里？'

‘Corner of Merrion Street. We’ll be coming back.’
‘梅林街的拐角处。我们会回来的。'

‘Work it all right now,’ said Lenehan in farewell.
“现在就开始吧，”莱内汉在告别时说道。

Corley did not answer. He sauntered across the road swaying his head from side to side. His bulk, his easy pace, and the solid sound of his boots had something of the conqueror in them. He approached the young woman and, without saluting, began at once to converse with her. She swung her umbrella more quickly and executed half turns on her heels. Once or twice when he spoke to her at close quarters she laughed and bent her head.
科利没有回答。他摇摇晃晃地穿过马路。他的块头、轻松的步伐以及靴子坚实的声音都带有征服者的味道。他走近那位年轻女子，没有行礼，就立即开始与她交谈。她更快地挥动雨伞，并在脚后跟上转了半圈。有一两次，当他近距离与她说话时，她低下头笑了起来。

Lenehan observed them for a few minutes. Then he walked rapidly along beside the chains at some distance and crossed the road obliquely. As he approached Hume Street corner he found the air heavily scented and his eyes made a swift anxious scrutiny of the young woman’s appearance. She had her Sunday finery on. Her blue serge skirt was held at the waist by a belt of black leather. The great silver buckle of her belt seemed to depress the centre of her body, catching the light stuff of her white blouse like a clip. She wore a short black jacket with mother-of-pearl buttons and a ragged black boa. The ends of her tulle collarette had been carefully disordered and a big bunch of red flowers was pinned in her bosom stems upwards. Lenehan’s eyes noted approvingly her stout short muscular body. rank rude health glowed in her face, on her fat red cheeks and in her unabashed blue eyes. Her features were blunt. She had broad nostrils, a straggling mouth which lay open in a contented leer, and two projecting front teeth. As he passed Lenehan took off his cap and, after about ten seconds, Corley returned a salute to the air. This he did by raising his hand vaguely and pensively changing the angle of position of his hat.
莱内汉观察了他们几分钟。然后他沿着铁链旁边不远处快步走去，斜着穿过马路。当他接近休姆街的拐角处时，他发现空气中弥漫着浓浓的香味，他的眼睛迅速焦急地审视着年轻女子的外表。她穿着周日的盛装。她的蓝色哔叽裙子用一条黑色皮带系在腰间。她腰带上的银色大扣似乎压低了她身体的中心，像夹子一样扣住了她白色衬衫上的轻质材料。她穿着一件带有珍珠母纽扣的黑色短夹克和一条破烂的黑色围巾。她的薄纱领子的末端被精心地弄乱了，一大束红色的花朵别在她胸前的花茎上。莱内汉用赞许的目光注视着她矮胖、肌肉发达的身体。她的脸、肥红的脸颊和毫不掩饰的蓝眼睛里都闪着粗鲁的健康光芒。她的五官生硬。她鼻孔宽阔，嘴巴张开，露出满足的斜视，还有两颗突出的门牙。当他经过莱内汉时，他摘下了帽子，大约十秒钟后，科利向空中回礼。为此，他含糊地举起了手，若有所思地改变了帽子的位置角度。

Lenehan walked as far as the Shelbourne Hotel where he halted and waited. After waiting for a little time he saw them coming towards him and, when they turned to the right, he followed them, stepping lightly in his white shoes, down one side of Merrion Square. As he walked on slowly, timing his pace to theirs, he watched Corley’s head which turned at every moment towards the young woman’s face like a big ball revolving on a pivot. He kept the pair in view until he had seen them climbing the stairs of the Donnybrook tram; then he turned about and went back the way he had come.
莱内汉一直走到谢尔本酒店，在那里停下来等待。等了一会儿，他看到他们朝他走来，当他们向右转时，他穿着白鞋轻轻地跟着他们，沿着梅林广场的一侧走下去。当他慢慢地向前走时，他看着科利的头，它每时每刻都转向年轻女子的脸，就像一个在枢轴上旋转的大球。他一直盯着这两个人，直到看到他们爬上唐尼布鲁克电车的楼梯为止。然后他转身沿着来时的路往回走。

Now that he was alone his face looked older. His gaiety seemed to forsake him and, as he came by the railings of the Duke’s Lawn, he allowed his hand to run along them. The air which the harpist had played began to control his movements His softly padded feet played the melody while his fingers swept a scale of variations idly along the railings after each group of notes.
现在只有他一人，他的脸显得苍老了。他的快乐似乎消失了，当他来到公爵草坪的栏杆旁时，他任由自己的手沿着栏杆奔跑。竖琴师演奏的空气开始控制他的动作，他那双垫着软垫的脚演奏着旋律，而他的手指则在每组音符后沿着栏杆悠闲地扫过变奏音阶。

He walked listlessly round Stephen’s Green and then down Grafton Street. Though his eyes took note of many elements of the crowd through which he passed they did so morosely. He found trivial all that was meant to charm him and did not answer the glances which invited him to be bold. He knew that he would have to speak a great deal, to invent and to amuse and his brain and throat were too dry for such a task. The problem of how he could pass the hours till he met Corley again troubled him a little. He could think of no way of passing them but to keep on walking. He turned to the left when he came to the corner of Rutland Square and felt more at ease in the dark quiet street, the sombre look of which suited his mood. He paused at last before the window of a poor-looking shop over which the words Refreshment Bar were printed in white letters. On the glass of the window were two flying inscriptions: Ginger Beer and Ginger Ale. A cut ham was exposed on a great blue dish while near it on a plate lay a segment of very light plum-pudding. He eyed this food earnestly for some time and then, after glancing warily up and down the street, went into the shop quickly.
他无精打采地绕过斯蒂芬绿地，然后沿着格拉夫顿街走下去。尽管他的眼睛注意到了他所经过的人群中的许多元素，但他们却表现得很忧郁。他发现所有吸引他的东西都是微不足道的，并且没有回应那些让他变得大胆的目光。他知道他必须说很多话，才能发明和娱乐，而他的大脑和喉咙太干了，无法完成这样的任务。在再次见到科利之前如何打发时间的问题让他有点困扰。他想不出有什么办法可以超越他们，只能继续走。来到拉特兰广场的拐角处，他向左转，在漆黑安静的街道上感觉更自在，阴沉的样子很适合他的心情。最后他在一家看上去很破旧的商店的橱窗前停了下来，上面用白字印着“茶点吧”几个字。窗户玻璃上有两个飞扬的铭文：姜汁啤酒和姜汁汽水。切好的火腿放在一个巨大的蓝色盘子上，靠近它的盘子上放着一块非常淡的李子布丁。他认真地盯着这些食物看了一会儿，然后小心翼翼地在街上看了看之后，快步走进了店里。

He was hungry for, except some biscuits which he had asked two grudging curates to bring him, he had eaten nothing since breakfast-time. He sat down at an uncovered wooden table opposite two work-girls and a mechanic. A slatternly girl waited on him.
他很饿，除了他让两个不情愿的牧师给他带来的一些饼干外，从早餐时间起他就没有吃过任何东西。他在一张没有遮盖的木桌旁坐下，对面是两名女工和一名机械师。一个衣衫褴褛的女孩正在侍候他。

‘How much is a plate of peas?’ he asked.
“一盘豌豆多少钱？”他问道。

‘Three halfpence, sir,’ said the girl.
“三块半便士，先生，”女孩说。

‘Bring me a plate of peas,’ he said, ‘and a bottle of ginger beer.’
“给我来一盘豌豆，”他说，“还有一瓶姜汁啤酒。”

He spoke roughly in order to belie his air of gentility for his entry had been followed by a pause of talk. His face was heated. To appear natural he pushed his cap back on his head and planted his elbows on the table. The mechanic and the two work-girls examined him point by point before resuming their conversation in a subdued voice. The girl brought him a plate of grocer’s hot peas, seasoned with pepper and vinegar, a fork and his ginger beer. He ate his food greedily and found it so good that he made a note of the shop mentally. When he had eaten all the peas he sipped his ginger beer and sat for some time thinking of Corley’s adventure. In his imagination he beheld the pair of lovers walking along some dark road; he heard Corley’s voice in deep energetic gallantries and saw again the leer of the young woman’s mouth. This vision made him feel keenly his own poverty of purse and spirit. He was tired of knocking about, of pulling the devil by the tail, of shifts and intrigues. He would be thirty-one in November. Would he never get a good job? Would he never have a home of his own? He thought how pleasant it would be to have a warm fire to sit by and a good dinner to sit down to. He had walked the streets long enough with friends and with girls. He knew what those friends were worth: he knew the girls too. Experience had embittered his heart against the world. But all hope had not left him. He felt better after having eaten than he had felt before, less weary of his life, less vanquished in spirit. He might yet be able to settle down in some snug corner and live happily if he could only come across some good simple-minded girl with a little of the ready.
他说话粗声粗气，以掩饰他进来时表现出的彬彬有礼的样子，随后谈话停了下来。他的脸很热。为了显得自然，他把帽子推回头上，把胳膊肘撑在桌子上。机械师和两个女工逐一检查了他，然后压低声音继续交谈。女孩给他端来了一盘杂货店的热豌豆，用胡椒和醋调味，还有一把叉子和他的姜汁啤酒。他狼吞虎咽地吃着，发现味道太好了，就在心里记下了这家店。当他吃完所有的豌豆后，他喝了一口姜汁啤酒，坐了一会儿思考科利的冒险经历。在他的想象中，他看到这对恋人正走在一条黑暗的路上；他听到科利的声音充满了深沉、充满活力的殷勤，又看到了年轻女子嘴角的斜视。这个愿景让他敏锐地感受到自己的金钱和精神的匮乏。他厌倦了四处游荡，厌倦了抓住魔鬼的尾巴，厌倦了轮换和阴谋。到十一月他就三十一岁了。他永远找不到好工作吗？他永远不会有自己的家吗？他想，如果能坐在温暖的炉火旁，享用一顿丰盛的晚餐，那该是多么令人愉快啊。他已经和朋友、女孩们一起在街上走了足够长的时间了。他知道那些朋友的价值：他也了解那些女孩。经历使他对这个世界感到痛苦。但所有的希望并没有离开他。吃完饭后，他感觉比以前好多了，生活不再那么疲惫，精神上也不再那么沮丧。如果他能遇到一个头脑简单、有一点准备的好女孩，他也许就能在某个舒适的角落安顿下来，过上幸福的生活。

He paid twopence halfpenny to the slatternly girl and went out of the shop to begin his wandering again. He went into Capel Street and walked along towards the City Hall. Then he turned into Dame Street. At the corner of George’s Street he met two friends of his and stopped to converse with them. He was glad that he could rest from all his walking. His friends asked him had he seen Corley and what was the latest. He replied that he had spent the day with Corley. His friends talked very little. They looked vacantly after some figures in the crowd and sometimes made a critical remark. One said that he had seen Mac an hour before in Westmoreland Street. At this Lenehan said that he had been with Mac the night before in Egan’s. The young man who had seen Mac in Westmoreland Street asked was it true that Mac had won a bit over a billiard match. Lenehan did not know: he said that Holohan had stood them drinks in Egan’s.
他给了那个衣衫褴褛的女孩两便士半便士，然后走出商店，又开始了他的闲逛。他走进卡佩尔街，朝市政厅走去。然后他拐进了达姆街。在乔治街的拐角处，他遇到了两个朋友，并停下来与他们交谈。他很高兴能够从所有的步行中得到休息。他的朋友问他是否见过科利以及最近的情况。他回答说他和科利一起度过了一天。他的朋友们很少说话。他们茫然地看着人群中的一些人影，时而发表批评性的言论。有人说他一小时前在威斯特摩兰街见过麦克。听到这里，莱纳汉说他前一天晚上和麦克一起在伊根家。那个在威斯特摩兰街见过麦克的年轻人问，麦克在一场台球比赛中真的赢了一点吗？莱内汉不知道：他说霍洛汉在伊根店给他们准备了饮料。

He left his friends at a quarter to ten and went up George’s Street. He turned to the left at the City Markets and walked on into Grafton Street. The crowd of girls and young men had thinned and on his way up the street he heard many groups and couples bidding one another good-night. He went as far as the clock of the College of Surgeons: it was on the stroke of ten. He set off briskly along the northern side of the Green hurrying for fear Corley should return too soon. When he reached the corner of Merrion Street he took his stand in the shadow of a lamp and brought out one of the cigarettes which he had reserved and lit it. He leaned against the lamp-post and kept his gaze fixed on the part from which he expected to see Corley and the young woman return.
十点一刻，他离开了朋友，沿着乔治街走去。他在城市市场左转，走进格拉夫顿街。女孩和年轻人的人群已经稀疏，在他沿着街道走的路上，他听到许多团体和情侣互相道晚安。他一直走到外科医生学院的时钟前：已经敲响十点了。他沿着绿地北侧轻快地出发，生怕科利回来得太早。当他到达梅林街的拐角处时，他站在一盏灯的阴影下，拿出一根他保留的香烟并点燃了它。他靠在灯柱上，目光一直盯着他预计会看到科利和年轻女子回来的地方。

His mind became active again. He wondered had Corley managed it successfully. He wondered if he had asked her yet or if he would leave it to the last. He suffered all the pangs and thrills of his friend’s situation as well as those of his own. But the memory of Corley’s slowly revolving head calmed him somewhat: he was sure Corley would pull it off all right. All at once the idea struck him that perhaps Corley had seen her home by another way and given him the slip. His eyes searched the street: there was no sign of them. Yet it was surely half-an-hour since he had seen the clock of the College of Surgeons. Would Corley do a thing like that? He lit his last cigarette and began to smoke it nervously. He strained his eyes as each tram stopped at the far corner of the square. They must have gone home by another way. The paper of his cigarette broke and he flung it into the road with a curse.
他的心思又开始活跃起来。他想知道科利是否成功地做到了这一点。他想知道自己是否已经问过她了，还是要留到最后再说。他经历了他朋友和他自己处境所带来的所有痛苦和刺激。但科利缓慢转动的脑袋的记忆让他稍微平静了一些：他确信科利会顺利完成任务。他突然想到，也许科利是从另一条路看到她回家的，所以就溜走了。他的眼睛搜索着街道：没有他们的踪迹。然而距离他看到外科医生学院的时钟已经过去了半个小时。科利会做那样的事吗？他点燃了最后一根烟，开始紧张地抽起来。当每辆电车停在广场的远角时，他眯起眼睛。他们一定是从别的路回家了。他的烟纸碎了，他咒骂着把它扔到路上。

Suddenly he saw them coming towards him. He started with delight and keeping close to his lamp-post tried to read the result in their walk. They were walking quickly, the young woman taking quick short steps, while Corley kept beside her with his long stride. They did not seem to be speaking. An intimation of the result pricked him like the point of a sharp instrument. He knew Corley would fail; he knew it was no go.
突然，他看到他们朝他走来。他高兴地开始了，并靠近灯柱试图在他们的行走中读取结果。他们走得很快，年轻女子迈着小步，而科利则迈着大步跟在她身边。他们似乎没有说话。结果的暗示就像锋利仪器的尖端一样刺痛着他。他知道科利会失败；他知道科利会失败。他知道这是不行的。

They turned down Baggot Street and he followed them at once, taking the other footpath. When they stopped he stopped too. They talked for a few moments and then the young woman went down the steps into the area of a house. Corley remained standing at the edge of the path, a little distance from the front steps. Some minutes passed. Then the hall-door was opened slowly and cautiously. A woman came running down the front steps and coughed. Corley turned and went towards her. His broad figure hid hers from view for a few seconds and then she reappeared running up the steps. The door closed on her and Corley began to walk swiftly towards Stephen’s Green.
他们拐进巴格特街，他立即跟在他们后面，走另一条人行道。当他们停下来时，他也停了下来。他们聊了一会儿，然后年轻女子走下台阶，走进一栋房子的区域。科利仍然站在小路的边缘，离前面的台阶有一段距离。几分钟过去了。然后大厅的门被缓慢而谨慎地打开。一个女人跑下门前的台阶，咳嗽着。科利转身朝她走去。他宽大的身躯遮住了她的视线几秒钟，然后她重新出现，跑上台阶。门在她面前关上了，科利开始快步朝斯蒂芬绿地走去。

Lenehan hurried on in the same direction. Some drops of light rain fell. He took them as a warning and, glancing back towards the house which the young woman had entered to see that he was not observed, he ran eagerly across the road. Anxiety and his swift run made him pant. He called out:
莱内汉急忙朝同一个方向走去。几滴小雨落了下来。他把他们当作警告，回头看了一眼年轻女子进入的房子，发现没有人注意到他，他急切地跑过马路。焦虑和他的快速奔跑让他气喘吁吁。他大声喊道：

‘Hallo, Corley!’
“你好，科利！”

Corley turned his head to see who had called him, and then continued walking as before. Lenehan ran after him, settling the waterproof on his shoulders with one hand.
科利转头看看是谁打电话给他，然后又像以前一样继续前行。莱内汉追上他，用一只手把防水布放在他的肩膀上。

‘Hallo, Corley!’ he cried again.
“你好，科利！”他又喊道。

He came level with his friend and looked keenly in his face. He could see nothing there.
他走到朋友身边，敏锐地看着他的脸。他在那里什么也看不见。

‘Well?’ he said. ‘Did it come off?’
“怎么样？”他说。 “它脱落了吗？”

They had reached the corner of Ely Place. Still without answering, Corley swerved to the left and went up the side street. His features were composed in stern calm. Lenehan kept up with his friend, breathing uneasily. He was baffled and a note of menace pierced through his voice.
他们已经到了伊利广场的拐角处。科利仍然没有回答，而是向左转向，沿着小街走去。他的表情十分平静。莱内汉跟上他的朋友，呼吸不安。他很困惑，声音里透着威胁的味道。

‘Can’t you tell us?’ he said. ‘Did you try her?’
“你不能告诉我们吗？”他说。 “你试过她吗？”

Corley halted at the first lamp and stared grimly before him. Then with a grave gesture he extended a hand towards the light and, smiling, opened it slowly to the gaze of his disciple. A small gold coin shone in the palm.
科利在第一盏灯前停了下来，冷酷地凝视着前方。然后，他以一种庄严的姿势向光明伸出一只手，微笑着，在弟子的注视下慢慢地张开。一枚小金币在掌心闪闪发光。

The Boarding House
寄宿处

MRS. MOONEY was a butcher’s daughter. She was a woman who was quite able to keep things to herself: a determined woman. She had married her father’s foreman and opened a butcher’s shop near Spring Gardens. But as soon as his father-in-law was dead Mr. Mooney began to go to the devil. He drank, plundered the till, ran headlong into debt. It was no use making him take the pledge: he was sure to break out again a few days after. By fighting his wife in the presence of customers and by buying bad meat he ruined his business. One night he went for his wife with the cleaver and she had to sleep a neighbour’s house.
太太。穆尼是屠夫的女儿。她是一个很能保守秘密的女人：一个意志坚定的女人。她嫁给了她父亲的工头，并在春花园附近开了一家肉店。但他的岳父一死，穆尼先生就开始走向魔鬼。他酗酒，掠夺钱柜，负债累累。让他发誓是没有用的：几天后他肯定会再次爆发。他当着顾客的面与妻子打架，还买了劣质肉，毁了自己的生意。一天晚上，他拿着菜刀去找他的妻子，她不得不睡在邻居家。

After that they lived apart. She went to the priest and got a separation from him with care of the children. She would give him neither money nor food nor house-room; and so he was obliged to enlist himself as a sheriff’s man. He was a shabby stooped little drunkard with a white face and a white moustache white eyebrows, pencilled above his little eyes, which were veined and raw; and all day long he sat in the bailiff’s room, waiting to be put on a job. Mrs. Mooney, who had taken what remained of her money out of the butcher business and set up a boarding house in Hardwicke Street, was a big imposing woman. Her house had a floating population made up of tourists from Liverpool and the Isle of Man and, occasionally, artistes from the music halls. Its resident population was made up of clerks from the city. She governed the house cunningly and firmly, knew when to give credit, when to be stern and when to let things pass. All the resident young men spoke of her as The Madam.
此后他们分居。她去找神父，并因照顾孩子而与他分居。她既不给他钱，也不给他食物，也不给他房间。因此他不得不应征入伍，担任治安官。他是个衣衫褴褛、弯腰驼背的小酒鬼，脸色苍白，胡子雪白，眉毛雪白，小眼睛上方有铅笔画，眼睛上青筋暴起，青筋暴起。他整天坐在法警的房间里，等待分配工作。穆尼夫人从肉店赚到了剩下的钱，在哈德威克街建立了一间寄宿处，她是一位身材魁梧的女人。她的房子里有流动人口，其中包括来自利物浦和马恩岛的游客，偶尔还有来自音乐厅的艺术家。其居民主要是来自城市的职员。她巧妙而坚定地管理着这个家，知道什么时候该表扬，什么时候该严厉，什么时候该放手。所有住在这里的年轻人都称她为“夫人”。

Mrs. Mooney’s young men paid fifteen shillings a week for board and lodgings (beer or stout at dinner excluded). They shared in common tastes and occupations and for this reason they were very chummy with one another. They discussed with one another the chances of favourites and outsiders. Jack Mooney, the Madam’s son, who was clerk to a commission agent in Fleet Street, had the reputation of being a hard case. He was fond of using soldiers’ obscenities: usually he came home in the small hours. When he met his friends he had always a good one to tell them and he was always sure to be on to a good thing-that is to say, a likely horse or a likely artiste. He was also handy with the mits and sang comic songs. On Sunday nights there would often be a reunion in Mrs. Mooney’s front drawing-room. The music-hall artistes would oblige; and Sheridan played waltzes and polkas and vamped accompaniments. Polly Mooney, the Madam’s daughter, would also sing. She sang:
穆尼夫人的年轻人每周支付十五先令的食宿费（不包括晚餐时的啤酒或烈性黑啤酒）。他们有着共同的品味和职业，因此彼此关系非常亲密。他们互相讨论了热门人和局外人的机会。夫人的儿子杰克·穆尼（Jack Mooney）是舰队街一家佣金代理人的职员，以疑难杂症而闻名。他喜欢用士兵的脏话：通常他在凌晨才回家。当他遇到朋友时，他总是有一个好消息要告诉他们，而且他总是肯定会发现一件好事——也就是说，一匹可能的马或一位可能的艺术家。他也很擅长使用手套并唱喜剧歌曲。周日晚上，穆尼夫人的前客厅经常会举行聚会。音乐厅的艺术家们一定会答应的。谢里登演奏华尔兹和波尔卡舞，并伴奏。夫人的女儿波莉·穆尼也会唱歌。她唱道：

I’m a ... naughty girl.
我是一个……顽皮的女孩。

You needn’t sham:
你不需要假装：

You know I am.
你知道我是。

Polly was a slim girl of nineteen; she had light soft hair and a small full mouth. Her eyes, which were grey with a shade of green through them, had a habit of glancing upwards when she spoke with anyone, which made her look like a little perverse madonna. Mrs. Mooney had first sent her daughter to be a typist in a corn-factor’s office but, as a disreputable sheriff’s man used to come every other day to the office, asking to be allowed to say a word to his daughter, she had taken her daughter home again and set her to do housework. As Polly was very lively the intention was to give her the run of the young men. Besides young men like to feel that there is a young woman not very far away. Polly, of course, flirted with the young men but Mrs. Mooney, who was a shrewd judge, knew that the young men were only passing the time away: none of them meant business. Things went on so for a long time and Mrs. Mooney began to think of sending Polly back to typewriting when she noticed that something was going on between Polly and one of the young men. She watched the pair and kept her own counsel.
波莉是一个十九岁的苗条女孩。她有一头浅色柔软的头发和一张饱满的小嘴。她的眼睛是灰色的，里面夹杂着绿色的阴影，与人说话时习惯性地向上看，这让她看起来像个乖僻的小圣母。穆尼夫人最初派她的女儿去一家玉米工厂当打字员，但由于一名声名狼藉的治安官每隔一天就会来办公室，要求允许他和女儿说一句话，她就接受了。女儿回到家，让她做家务。由于波莉非常活泼，我们的目的是让她在年轻人中脱颖而出。而且年轻的男人喜欢感觉不远处有一个年轻的女人。波莉当然和这些年轻人调情，但穆尼夫人是一位精明的判断者，她知道这些年轻人只是消磨时间：他们没有任何意义。事情持续了很长一段时间，当穆尼夫人注意到波莉和其中一个年轻人之间发生了一些事情时，她开始考虑让波莉回去打字。她注视着这两人，并保留了自己的忠告。

Polly knew that she was being watched, but still her mother’s persistent silence could not be misunderstood. There had been no open complicity between mother and daughter, no open understanding but, though people in the house began to talk of the affair, still Mrs. Mooney did not intervene. Polly began to grow a little strange in her manner and the young man was evidently perturbed. At last, when she judged it to be the right moment, Mrs. Mooney intervened. She dealt with moral problems as a cleaver deals with meat: and in this case she had made up her mind.
波莉知道她正在被监视，但她母亲的持续沉默仍然不能被误解。母女之间并没有公开的共谋，也没有公开的理解，但是，尽管家里的人开始谈论这件事，穆尼夫人仍然没有介入。波莉的态度开始变得有点奇怪，年轻人显然也很不安。最后，当穆尼夫人认为时机成熟时，她介入了。她处理道德问题就像刀子处理肉一样：在这种情况下，她已经下定了决心。

It was a bright Sunday morning of early summer, promising heat, but with a fresh breeze blowing. All the windows of the boarding house were open and the lace curtains ballooned gently towards the street beneath the raised sashes. The belfry of George’s Church sent out constant peals and worshippers, singly or in groups, traversed the little circus before the church, revealing their purpose by their self-contained demeanour no less than by the little volumes in their gloved hands. Breakfast was over in the boarding house and the table of the breakfast-room was covered with plates on which lay yellow streaks of eggs with morsels of bacon-fat and bacon-rind. Mrs. Mooney sat in the straw arm-chair and watched the servant Mary remove the breakfast things. She mad Mary collect the crusts and pieces of broken bread to help to make Tuesday’s breadpudding. When the table was cleared, the broken bread collected, the sugar and butter safe under lock and key, she began to reconstruct the interview which she had had the night before with Polly. Things were as she had suspected: she had been frank in her questions and Polly had been frank in her answers. Both had been somewhat awkward, of course. She had been made awkward by her not wishing to receive the news in too cavalier a fashion or to seem to have connived and Polly had been made awkward not merely because allusions of that kind always made her awkward but also because she did not wish it to be thought that in her wise innocence she had divined the intention behind her mother’s tolerance.
那是初夏一个阳光明媚的周日早晨，天气炎热，但微风徐徐。寄宿处的所有窗户都开着，蕾丝窗帘轻轻地向升起的窗框下的街道飘去。圣乔治教堂的钟楼不断发出钟声，礼拜者或单独或成群地穿过教堂前的小马戏团，通过他们自成一体的举止和戴着手套的手中的小册子揭示了他们的目的。寄宿处的早餐已经结束，早餐室的桌子上摆满了盘子，上面放着黄色的鸡蛋，上面夹着一些培根脂肪和培根皮。穆尼太太坐在草编扶手椅上，看着仆人玛丽搬走早餐用具。她让玛丽收集面包皮和碎面包片来帮助制作周二的面包布丁。当桌子被清理干净，破碎的面包被收集起来，糖和黄油被锁好后，她开始回忆前一天晚上与波莉的采访。事情正如她所怀疑的那样：她坦率地提出问题，波莉也坦率地回答。当然，两人都有些尴尬。她之所以感到尴尬，是因为她不想以太漫不经心的方式收到这个消息，或者看起来像是在纵容，而波莉则感到尴尬，不仅因为这类暗示总是让她尴尬，还因为她不希望它发生。人们认为，她天真聪明，已经猜透了母亲宽容背后的意图。

Mrs. Mooney glanced instinctively at the little gilt clock on the mantelpiece as soon as she had become aware through her revery that the bells of George’s Church had stopped ringing. It was seventeen minutes past eleven: she would have lots of time to have the matter out with Mr. Doran and then catch short twelve at Marlborough Street. She was sure she would win. To begin with she had all the weight of social opinion on her side: she was an outraged mother. She had allowed him to live beneath her roof, assuming that he was a man of honour and he had simply abused her hospitality. He was thirty-four or thirty-five years of age, so that youth could not be pleaded as his excuse; nor could ignorance be his excuse since he was a man who had seen something of the world. He had simply taken advantage of Polly’s youth and inexperience: that was evident. The question was: What reparation would he make?
穆尼夫人在沉思中意识到乔治教堂的钟声已经停止敲响后，就本能地看了一眼壁炉架上的镀金小钟。现在是十一点十七分：她有很多时间和多兰先生解决这件事，然后在马尔伯勒街赶十二点。她确信她会赢。首先，所有社会舆论都站在她一边：她是一位愤怒的母亲。她允许他住在她的屋檐下，认为他是一个有荣誉的人，而他只是滥用了她的热情好客。他已经三十四、三十五岁了，不能以年轻为借口。无知也不能成为他的借口，因为他是一个见过世面的人。他只是利用了波莉的年轻和缺乏经验：这一点很明显。问题是：他会做出什么赔偿？

There must be reparation made in such case. It is all very well for the man: he can go his ways as if nothing had happened, having had his moment of pleasure, but the girl has to bear the brunt. Some mothers would be content to patch up such an affair for a sum of money; she had known cases of it. But she would not do so. For her only one reparation could make up for the loss of her daughter’s honour: marriage.
在这种情况下必须进行赔偿。对于男人来说这一切都很好：他可以像什么都没发生过一样，享受快乐的时光，但女孩却要首当其冲。有些母亲会满足于为了一笔钱来修补这样的风流韵事；有些母亲则愿意。她知道这样的事例。但她不会这样做。对她来说，只有一种补偿可以弥补女儿荣誉的损失：婚姻。

She counted all her cards again before sending Mary up to Doran’s room to say that she wished to speak with him. She felt sure she would win. He was a serious young man, not rakish or loud-voiced like the others. If it had been Mr. Sheridan or Mr. Meade or Bantam Lyons her task would have been much harder. She did not think he would face publicity. All the lodgers in the house knew something of the affair; details had been invented by some. Besides, he had been employed for thirteen years in a great Catholic wine-merchant’s office and publicity would mean for him, perhaps, the loss of his job. Whereas if he agreed all might be well. She knew he had a good screw for one thing and she suspected he had a bit of stuff put by.
她再次清点了所有的牌，然后把玛丽送到多兰的房间，说她想和他谈谈。她确信自己会赢。他是一个严肃的年轻人，不像其他人那样放荡或大声。如果是谢里登先生、米德先生或班塔姆·里昂，她的任务就会困难得多。她不认为他会面临公众的关注。房子里的所有房客都知道这件事。细节是一些人发明的。此外，他已经在一家伟大的天主教酒商办公室工作了十三年，公开对他来说也许意味着丢掉工作。但如果他同意，一切可能都会好起来。她知道他在某件事上有一个很好的螺丝钉，并且她怀疑他有一些东西。

Nearly the half-hour! She stood up and surveyed herself in the pier-glass. The decisive expression of her great florid face satisfied her and she thought of some mothers she knew who could not get their daughters off their hands.
快半个小时了！她站起来，在穿衣镜里打量着自己。她那张红润的大脸上果断的表情让她很满意，她想起了一些她认识的母亲，她们无法把自己的女儿从她们手中夺走。

Mr. Doran was very anxious indeed this Sunday morning. He had made two attempts to shave but his hand had been so unsteady that he had been obliged to desist. Three days’ reddish beard fringed his jaws and every two or three minutes a mist gathered on his glasses so that he had to take them off and polish them with his pocket-handkerchief. The recollection of his confession of the night before was a cause of acute pain to him; the priest had drawn out every ridiculous detail of the affair and in the end had so magnified his sin that he was almost thankful at being afforded a loophole of reparation. The harm was done. What could he do now but marry her or run away? He could not brazen it out. The affair would be sure to be talked of and his employer would be certain to hear of it. Dublin is such a small city: everyone knows everyone else’s business. He felt his heart leap warmly in his throat as he heard in his excited imagination old Mr. Leonard calling out in his rasping voice: ‘Send Mr. Doran here, please.’
这个周日早上，多兰先生确实非常焦虑。他曾两次尝试刮胡子，但他的手太不稳定，不得不停下来。三天来，他的下巴上长着红色的胡须，每隔两三分钟，他的眼镜上就会积起一层雾气，他不得不把眼镜摘下来，用口袋手帕擦亮。回想起前一天晚上的坦白，他感到一阵剧痛。神父把这件事的每一个可笑的细节都列出来，最后夸大了他的罪孽，以至于他几乎庆幸自己能得到一个赔偿的漏洞。伤害已经造成了。现在他除了娶她或者逃跑还能做什么？他不能厚颜无耻地说出来。这件事肯定会被谈论，他的雇主也一定会听到。都柏林是一个很小的城市：每个人都知道其他人的事。当他在兴奋的想象中听到老伦纳德先生用刺耳的声音喊道：“请派多兰先生到这里来时，他感到自己的心在喉咙里热烈地跳动。”

All his long years of service gone for nothing! All his industry and diligence thrown away! As a young man he had sown his wild oats, of course; he had boasted of his free-thinking and denied the existence of God to his companions in publichouses. But that was all passed and done with... nearly. He still bought a copy of Reynolds’s Newspaper every week but he attended to his religious duties and for nine-tenths of the year lived a regular life. He had money enough to settle down on; it was not that. But the family would look down on her. First of all there was her disreputable father and then her mother’s boarding house was beginning to get a certain fame. He had a notion that he was being had. He could imagine his friends talking of the affair and laughing. She was a little vulgar; some times she said ‘I seen’ and ‘If I had’ve known.’ But what would grammar matter if he really loved her? He could not make up his mind whether to like her or despise her for what she had done. Of course he had done it too. His instinct urged him to remain free, not to marry. Once you are married you are done for, it said.
他多年的服务都白费了！他所有的勤奋和勤奋都白费了！当然，作为一个年轻人，他也曾撒过野燕麦。他曾吹嘘自己思想自由，并在酒馆里向同伴否认上帝的存在。但这一切都已经过去了……差不多了。他仍然每周购买一份雷诺兹报纸，但他履行自己的宗教义务，一年中十分之九的时间过着正常的生活。他有足够的钱安顿下来；不是那样的。但家人会看不起她。首先是她声名狼藉的父亲，然后她母亲的寄宿处开始有了一定的名气。他有一种感觉，他被占有了。他可以想象他的朋友们谈论这件事并且大笑。她有点粗俗；有时她会说“我看见了”和“如果我早知道就好了”。但如果他真的爱她，语法又有何用呢？对于她的所作所为，他拿不定主意是喜欢她还是鄙视她。当然他也做到了。他的本能促使他保持自由，而不是结婚。它说，一旦你结婚了，你就完了。

While he was sitting helplessly on the side of the bed in shirt and trousers she tapped lightly at his door and entered. She told him all, that she had made a clean breast of it to her mother and that her mother would speak with him that morning. She cried and threw her arms round his neck, saying:
当他穿着衬衫和裤子无助地坐在床边时，她轻轻敲了敲他的门，走了进去。她告诉他一切，她已经向她母亲坦白了一切，她母亲那天早上会和他说话。她哭着用双臂搂住他的脖子，说道：

‘O Bob! Bob! What am I to do? What am I to do at all?’
‘哦鲍勃！鲍勃！我是什么做的？我到底该怎么办？

She would put an end to herself, she said.
她说，她会结束自己。

He comforted her feebly, telling her not to cry, that it would be all right, never fear. He felt against his shirt the agitation of her bosom.
他有气无力地安慰她，告诉她不要哭，不会有事的，不用害怕。他在衬衫上感受到她胸膛的骚动。

It was not altogether his fault that it had happened. He remembered well, with the curious patient memory of the celibate, the first casual caresses her dress, her breath, her fingers had given him. Then late one night as he was undressing for she had tapped at his door, timidly. She wanted to relight her candle at his for hers had been blown out by a gust. It was her bath night. She wore a loose open combingjacket of printed flannel. Her white instep shone in the opening of her furry slippers and the blood glowed warmly behind her perfumed skin. From her hands and wrists too as she lit and steadied her candle a faint perfume arose.
事情的发生并不完全是他的错。他清楚地记得，凭借独身者好奇而耐心的记忆，第一次随意爱抚她的衣服、她的呼吸、她的手指给了他。一天深夜，当他脱衣服时，她胆怯地敲了敲他的门。她想重新点燃他的蜡烛，因为她的蜡烛已经被一阵风吹灭了。这是她洗澡的夜晚。她穿着一件宽松的开襟印花法兰绒精梳夹克。她白色的脚背在毛茸茸的拖鞋的开口处闪闪发光，鲜血在她散发着香味的皮肤后面发出温暖的光芒。当她点燃并稳定蜡烛时，她的手和手腕上也散发出淡淡的香味。

On nights when he came in very late it was she who warmed up his dinner. He scarcely knew what he was eating feeling her beside him alone, at night, in the sleeping house. And her thoughtfulness! If the night was anyway cold or wet or windy there was sure to be a little tumbler of punch ready for him. Perhaps they could be happy together....
那些晚上，他很晚才回来，都是她给他热晚餐。晚上，在熟睡的房子里，他几乎不知道自己在吃什么，感觉她独自在他身边。还有她的体贴！如果夜晚寒冷、潮湿或有风，肯定会为他准备一小杯潘趣酒。或许，他们能够幸福地在一起……

They used to go upstairs together on tiptoe, each with a candle, and on the third landing exchange reluctant goodnights. They used to kiss. He remembered well her eyes, the touch of her hand and his delirium....
他们常常一起踮着脚尖上楼，每人拿着一支蜡烛，在第三层楼梯平台上互道晚安。他们曾经接吻。他清楚地记得她的眼睛、她手的触摸以及他的神志不清……

But delirium passes. He echoed her phrase, applying it to himself: ‘What am I to do?’ The instinct of the celibate warned him to hold back. But the sin was there; even his sense of honour told him that reparation must be made for such a sin.
但谵妄已经过去了。他重复了她的话，并将其应用到自己身上：“我该怎么办？”独身者的本能警告他要克制。但罪孽就在那里；就连他的荣誉感也告诉他，这样的罪过必须要赔偿。

While he was sitting with her on the side of the bed Mary came to the door and said that the missus wanted to see him in the parlour. He stood up to put on his coat and waistcoat, more helpless than ever. When he was dressed he went over to her to comfort her. It would be all right, never fear. He left her crying on the bed and moaning softly: ‘O my God!’
当他和她一起坐在床边时，玛丽走到门口说夫人想在客厅见他。他站起来穿上外套和马甲，比以往更加无助。穿好衣服后，他走到她身边安慰她。那就没事了，不用害怕。他让她在床上哭泣，轻轻地呻吟着：“天哪！”

Going down the stairs his glasses became so dimmed with moisture that he had to take them off and polish them. He longed to ascend through the roof and fly away to another country where he would never hear again of his trouble, and yet a force pushed him downstairs step by step. The implacable faces of his employer and of the Madam stared upon his discomfiture. On the last flight of stairs he passed Jack Mooney who was coming up from the pantry nursing two bottles of Bass. They saluted coldly; and the lover’s eyes rested for a second or two on a thick bulldog face and a pair of thick short arms. When he reached the foot of the staircase he glanced up and saw Jack regarding him from the door of the return-room.
下楼梯时，他的眼镜因受潮而变暗，他不得不把它们摘下来擦亮。他渴望登上屋顶，飞向另一个国家，再也听不到他的麻烦，却有一股力量将他一步步推下楼去。他的雇主和夫人都用冷酷的表情注视着他的狼狈。在最后一段楼梯上，他经过了杰克·穆尼，他正从食品储藏室走来，手里拿着两瓶巴斯酒。他们冷冷地行礼；情人的目光在一张厚厚的斗牛犬脸和一双粗短的手臂上停留了一两秒钟。当他到达楼梯脚时，他抬起头，看到杰克在返回室的门口看着他。

Suddenly he remembered the night when one of the musichall artistes, a little blond Londoner, had made a rather free allusion to Polly. The reunion had been almost broken up on account of Jack’s violence. Everyone tried to quiet him. The music-hall artiste, a little paler than usual, kept smiling and saying that there was no harm meant: but Jack kept shouting at him that if any fellow tried that sort of a game on with his sister he’d bloody well put his teeth down his throat, so he would.
突然，他想起了那天晚上，音乐厅的一位艺术家，一个金发碧眼的伦敦人，相当随意地提到了波莉。由于杰克的暴力行为，重聚几乎破裂。每个人都试图让他安静下来。音乐厅艺术家的脸色比平时苍白了一点，一直微笑着说没有恶意：但是杰克一直对他大喊大叫，如果有人想和他妹妹玩这种游戏，他会把他的他咬牙切齿，所以他会的。

Polly sat for a little time on the side of the bed, crying. Then she dried her eyes and went over to the looking-glass. She dipped the end of the towel in the water-jug and refreshed her eyes with the cool water. She looked at herself in profile and readjusted a hairpin above her ear. Then she went back to the bed again and sat at the foot. She regarded the pillows for a long time and the sight of them awakened in her mind secret, amiable memories. She rested the nape of her neck against the cool iron bed-rail and fell into a reverie. There was no longer any perturbation visible on her face.
波莉在床边坐了一会儿，哭了。然后她擦干眼睛，走到镜子前。她把毛巾的一端浸入水壶里，用凉水擦洗眼睛。她看了看自己的侧脸，重新将发夹别在耳上。然后她又回到床边，坐在床脚边。她盯着枕头看了很久，它们的景象唤醒了她脑海中秘密的、亲切的记忆。她把颈背靠在冰凉的铁制床栏上，陷入了沉思。她的脸上已经看不到任何的不安。

She waited on patiently, almost cheerfully, without alarm. her memories gradually giving place to hopes and visions of the future. Her hopes and visions were so intricate that she no longer saw the white pillows on which her gaze was fixed or remembered that she was waiting for anything.
她耐心地、几乎是高兴地等待着，没有惊慌。她的记忆逐渐被对未来的希望和愿景所取代。她的希望和愿景是如此复杂，以至于她不再看到她目光所注视的白色枕头，也不再记得她在等待什么。

At last she heard her mother calling. She started to her feet and ran to the banisters.
终于，她听到了妈妈的呼唤声。她站了起来，跑向栏杆。

‘Polly! Polly!’
‘波莉！波莉！’

‘Yes, mamma?’
“是吗，妈妈？”

‘Come down, dear. Mr. Doran wants to speak to you.’
‘下来吧，亲爱的。多兰先生想和你谈谈。

Then she remembered what she had been waiting for.
然后她想起了她一直在等待的事情。

A Little Cloud
一点云

EIGHT years before he had seen his friend off at the North Wall and wished him godspeed. Gallaher had got on. You could tell that at once by his travelled air, his well-cut tweed suit, and fearless accent. Few fellows had talents like his and fewer still could remain unspoiled by such success. Gallaher’s heart was in the right place and he had deserved to win. It was something to have a friend like that.
八年前，他在北墙送行，并祝他一切顺利。加拉赫已经上车了。从他旅行的神态、剪裁考究的粗花呢西装和无所畏惧的口音中，你立刻就能看出这一点。很少有人拥有像他这样的才能，而能够保持如此成功的人就更少了。加拉赫的心是对的，他配得上胜利。有一个这样的朋友真是太好了。

Little Chandler’s thoughts ever since lunch-time had been of his meeting with Gallaher, of Gallaher’s invitation and of the great city London where Gallaher lived. He was called Little Chandler because, though he was but slightly under the average stature, he gave one the idea of being a little man. His hands were white and small, his frame was fragile, his voice was quiet and his manners were refined. He took the greatest care of his fair silken hair and moustache and used perfume discreetly on his handkerchief. The half-moons of his nails were perfect and when he smiled you caught a glimpse of a row of childish white teeth.
从午餐时间起，小钱德勒就一直想着他与加拉赫的会面、加拉赫的邀请以及加拉赫居住的伦敦这座伟大的城市。他被称为“小钱德勒”，因为虽然他的身材略低于平均水平，但他给人一种小个子的感觉。他的手又白又小，身躯脆弱，声音低沉，举止儒雅。他非常小心地打理着自己金色的丝质头发和胡须，并小心翼翼地在手帕上喷香水。他的半月形指甲非常完美，当他微笑时，你会瞥见一排孩子气的白牙。

As he sat at his desk in the King’s Inns he thought what changes those eight years had brought. The friend whom he had known under a shabby and necessitous guise had become a brilliant figure on the London Press. He turned often from his tiresome writing to gaze out of the office window. The glow of a late autumn sunset covered the grass plots and walks. It cast a shower of kindly golden dust on the untidy nurses and decrepit old men who drowsed on the benches; it flickered upon all the moving figures— on the children who ran screaming along the gravel paths and on everyone who passed through the gardens. He watched the scene and thought of life; and (as always happened when he thought of life) he became sad. A gentle melancholy took possession of him. He felt how useless it was to struggle against fortune, this being the burden of wisdom which the ages had bequeathed to him.
当他坐在国王旅馆的办公桌前时，他思考着这八年带来了哪些变化。他所认识的那个在寒酸和贫困的幌子下认识的朋友已经成为伦敦报界的杰出人物。他经常从令人厌烦的写作中转过头来凝视办公室窗外。深秋夕阳的余辉覆盖了草地和步道。它在邋遢的护士和在长凳上打瞌睡的衰老老人身上洒下了一阵仁慈的金色灰尘。它在所有移动的人物身上闪烁——在沿着砾石小路尖叫着奔跑的孩子们身上，在每个穿过花园的人身上。他看着眼前的景象，思考着人生；然后（正如他想到生活时经常发生的那样）他变得悲伤。一种温柔的忧郁占据了他的心。他觉得与命运抗争是多么无益，这是岁月留给他的智慧负担。

He remembered the books of poetry upon his shelves at home. He had bought them in his bachelor days and many an evening, as he sat in the little room off the hall, he had been tempted to take one down from the bookshelf and read out something to his wife. But shyness had always held him back; and so the books had remained on their shelves. At times he repeated lines to himself and this consoled him.
他记得家里书架上的诗集。这些书是他在单身时期买的，很多个晚上，当他坐在大厅旁边的小房间里时，他都想从书架上拿下一本，读给妻子听。但害羞总是让他望而却步。所以这些书就一直留在书架上。有时他对自己重复台词，这让他感到安慰。

When his hour had struck he stood up and took leave of his desk and of his fellow-clerks punctiliously. He emerged from under the feudal arch of the King’s Inns, a neat modest figure, and walked swiftly down Henrietta Street. The golden sunset was waning and the air had grown sharp. A horde of grimy children populated the street. They stood or ran in the roadway or crawled up the steps before the gaping doors or squatted like mice upon the thresholds. Little Chandler gave them no thought. He picked his way deftly through all that minute vermin-like life and under the shadow of the gaunt spectral mansions in which the old nobility of Dublin had roystered. No memory of the past touched him, for his mind was full of a present joy.
下班时间一到，他就站起来，一丝不苟地离开办公桌和同事们。他从国王旅馆的封建拱门下走出来，身材整洁谦逊，沿着亨丽埃塔街快步走去。金色的夕阳渐渐西落，空气变得凝重起来。街上挤满了一群脏兮兮的孩子。他们在马路上站立或奔跑，或爬上敞开的门前的台阶，或像老鼠一样蹲在门槛上。小钱德勒没有理会他们。他灵巧地选择了自己的道路，穿过那些微小的害虫般的生活，在都柏林老贵族们喧闹的、荒凉的幽灵宅邸的阴影下。过去的记忆没有触动他，因为他的脑海里充满了当下的欢乐。

He had never been in Corless’s but he knew the value of the name. He knew that people went there after the theatre to eat oysters and drink liqueurs; and he had heard that the waiters there spoke French and German. Walking swiftly by at night he had seen cabs drawn up before the door and richly dressed ladies, escorted by cavaliers, alight and enter quickly. They wore noisy dresses and many wraps. Their faces were powdered and they caught up their dresses, when they touched earth, like alarmed Atalantas. He had always passed without turning his head to look. It was his habit to walk swiftly in the street even by day and whenever he found himself in the city late at night he hurried on his way apprehensively and excitedly. Sometimes, however, he courted the causes of his fear. He chose the darkest and narrowest streets and, as he walked boldly forward, the silence that was spread about his footsteps troubled him, the wandering, silent figures troubled him; and at times a sound of low fugitive laughter made him tremble like a leaf.
他从未去过 Corless’s，但他知道这个名字的价值。他知道人们看完戏后会去那里吃牡蛎和喝利口酒；他听说那里的服务员会说法语和德语。夜间，他快步走过，看见出租车停在门前，衣着华丽的女士在骑士的护送下，快速下车进入。她们穿着花哨的衣服，裹着很多围巾。他们脸上扑了粉，一接触地面，就卷起了裙子，就像惊慌失措的亚特兰大人一样。他总是从身边走过，没有回头看一眼。他习惯在街上快步走，即使是白天，每当他发现自己在深夜的城市里时，他都会既忐忑又兴奋地匆匆赶路。然而，有时他也会寻找引起恐惧的原因。他选择了最黑暗、最狭窄的街道，当他大胆地向前走时，他的脚步周围的寂静让他感到不安，那些徘徊、沉默的人影让他感到不安；有时，一阵低沉的笑声让他像树叶一样颤抖。

He turned to the right towards Capel Street. Ignatius Gallaher on the London Press! Who would have thought it possible eight years before? Still, now that he reviewed the past, Little Chandler could remember many signs of future greatness in his friend. People used to say that Ignatius Gallaher was wild Of course, he did mix with a rakish set of fellows at that time. drank freely and borrowed money on all sides. In the end he had got mixed up in some shady affair, some money transaction: at least, that was one version of his flight. But nobody denied him talent. There was always a certain... something in Ignatius Gallaher that impressed you in spite of yourself. Even when he was out at elbows and at his wits’ end for money he kept up a bold face. Little Chandler remembered (and the remembrance brought a slight flush of pride to his cheek) one of Ignatius Gallaher’s sayings when he was in a tight corner:
他向右转向卡佩尔街。伊格内修斯·加拉赫 (Ignatius Gallaher) 接受伦敦媒体采访！八年前谁会想到这是可能的？不过，现在回顾过去，小钱德勒仍然记得他朋友身上许多未来伟大的迹象。人们常说伊格内修斯·加拉赫很狂野，当然，他当时也确实和一群放荡不羁的人混在一起。肆意饮酒，四处借钱。最终他卷入了一些不正当的事件，一些金钱交易：至少，这是他逃亡的一个版本。但没有人否认他的才华。伊格内修斯·加拉赫身上总有某种……某些东西让你不由自主地印象深刻。即使当他为了钱而陷入困境、束手无策时，他仍保持着一副大胆的面孔。小钱德勒想起了伊格纳修斯·加拉赫（Ignatius Gallaher）在陷入困境时说过的一句话（这让他的脸颊泛起一丝骄傲的红晕）：

‘Half time now, boys,’ he used to say light-heartedly. ‘Where’s my considering cap?’
“现在已经下半场了，孩子们，”他常常轻松地说。 “我的考虑上限在哪里？”

That was Ignatius Gallaher all out; and, damn it, you couldn’t but admire him for it.
那是伊格内修斯·加拉赫全力以赴的表现。而且，该死的，你不得不为此钦佩他。

Little Chandler quickened his pace. For the first time in his life he felt himself superior to the people he passed. For the first time his soul revolted against the dull inelegance of Capel Street. There was no doubt about it: if you wanted to succeed you had to go away. You could do nothing in Dublin. As he crossed Grattan Bridge he looked down the river towards the lower quays and pitied the poor stunted houses. They seemed to him a band of tramps, huddled together along the riverbanks, their old coats covered with dust and soot, stupefied by the panorama of sunset and waiting for the first chill of night bid them arise, shake themselves and begone. He wondered whether he could write a poem to express his idea. Perhaps Gallaher might be able to get it into some London paper for him. Could he write something original? He was not sure what idea he wished to express but the thought that a poetic moment had touched him took life within him like an infant hope. He stepped onward bravely.
小钱德勒加快了脚步。他有生以来第一次感到自己比他身边的人优越。他的灵魂第一次对卡佩尔街的沉闷、粗俗产生了反抗。毫无疑问：如果你想成功，你就必须离开。你在都柏林什么也做不了。当他穿过格拉坦桥时，他向河下游望向较低的码头，对那些可怜的发育不良的房屋表示同情。在他看来，他们就像一群流浪汉，沿着河岸挤在一起，他们的旧外套上沾满了灰尘和烟灰，被日落的全景惊呆了，等待着夜晚的第一缕寒意召唤他们起身，摇晃自己并离开。他想知道是否可以写一首诗来表达他的想法。也许加拉赫可以帮他把它刊登在伦敦的一些报纸上。他能写出一些原创的东西吗？他不确定自己想表达什么想法，但一个诗意的时刻触动了他的想法像婴儿般的希望一样在他心中生机勃勃。他勇敢地向前走去。

Every step brought him nearer to London, farther from his own sober inartistic life. A light began to tremble on the horizon of his mind. He was not so old—thirty-two. His temperament might be said to be just at the point of maturity. There were so many different moods and impressions that he wished to express in verse. He felt them within him. He tried weigh his soul to see if it was a poet’s soul. Melancholy was the dominant note of his temperament, he thought, but it was a melancholy tempered by recurrences of faith and resignation and simple joy. If he could give expression to it in a book of poems perhaps men would listen. He would never be popular: he saw that. He could not sway the crowd but he might appeal to a little circle of kindred minds. The English critics, perhaps, would recognise him as one of the Celtic school by reason of the melancholy tone of his poems; besides that, he would put in allusions. He began to invent sentences and phrases from the notice which his book would get. ‘Mr. Chandler has the gift of easy and graceful verse.’ ... ‘wistful sadness pervades these poems.’ ... ‘The Celtic note.’ It was a pity his name was not more Irish-looking. Perhaps it would be better to insert his mother’s name before the surname: Thomas Malone Chandler, or better still: T. Malone Chandler. He would speak to Gallaher about it.
每一步都让他离伦敦更近，也离他自己清醒的非艺术生活更远。一道光芒开始在他脑海的地平线上颤抖。他的年纪并不大——三十二岁。他的气质可以说是刚刚成熟。他希望用诗歌来表达许多不同的心情和印象。他感觉到它们在他体内。他试着掂量一下自己的灵魂，看看它是否是诗人的灵魂。他认为，忧郁是他性格的主要特征，但这种忧郁是由反复出现的信仰、顺从和简单的快乐所调和的。如果他能在诗集中表达出来，也许人们会听。他永远不会受欢迎：他看到了这一点。他无法影响群众，但他可能会吸引一小群志同道合的人。英国评论家也许会因为他诗歌的忧郁基调而将他视为凯尔特学派之一。除此之外，他还会引用一些典故。他开始根据他的书收到的通知来发明句子和短语。 '先生。钱德勒拥有轻松优美的诗句天赋。”……“这些诗中弥漫着渴望的悲伤。”……“凯尔特音符。”遗憾的是，他的名字看起来不像爱尔兰人。也许在姓氏之前插入他母亲的名字会更好：托马斯·马龙·钱德勒，或者更好：T.·马龙·钱德勒。他会和加拉赫谈论这件事。

He pursued his revery so ardently that he passed his street and had to turn back. As he came near Corless’s his former agitation began to overmaster him and he halted before the door in indecision. Finally he opened the door and entered.
他如此热切地追求他的梦想，以至于经过了他的街道，不得不折返。当他走近科莱斯家时，先前的激动开始压倒他，他犹豫不决地在门前停了下来。最后他打开门走了进去。

The light and noise of the bar held him at the doorways for a few moments. He looked about him, but his sight was confused by the shining of many red and green wine-glasses The bar seemed to him to be full of people and he felt that the people were observing him curiously. He glanced quickly to right and left (frowning slightly to make his errand appear serious), but when his sight cleared a little he saw that nobody had turned to look at him: and there, sure enough, was Ignatius Gallaher leaning with his back against the counter and his feet planted far apart.
酒吧的灯光和喧闹让他在门口停留了一会儿。他环顾四周，但他的视线被许多红绿酒杯的光芒所迷惑。酒吧里似乎挤满了人，他感觉人们正在好奇地观察着他。他快速地左右扫视（微微皱起眉头，让他的任务显得很严肃），但当他的视线稍微清醒一点时，他发现没有人转头看他：果然，伊格内修斯·加拉赫正靠在那里，背靠着他。柜台和他的脚分开得很远。

‘Hallo, Tommy, old hero, here you are! What is it to be? What will you have? I’m taking whisky: better stuff than we get across the water. Soda? Lithia? No mineral? I’m the same Spoils the flavour.... Here, garcon, bring us two halves of malt whisky, like a good fellow.... Well, and how have you been pulling along since I saw you last? Dear God, how old we’re getting! Do you see any signs of aging in me—eh, what? A little grey and thin on the top— what?’
‘哈喽，汤米，老英雄，你来了！它是什么？你会得到什么？我要喝威士忌：比我们从水里喝到的更好的东西。苏打？莉西亚？没有矿物质吗？我也是一样，破坏了味道……这里，加康，给我们带来两半麦芽威士忌，就像一个好人……好吧，自从我上次见到你以来，你过得怎么样？亲爱的上帝，我们已经多大了！你在我身上看到任何衰老的迹象吗——呃，什么？顶部有点灰色和薄——什么？

Ignatius Gallaher took off his hat and displayed a large closely cropped head. His face was heavy, pale and cleanshaven. His eyes, which were of bluish slate-colour, relieved his unhealthy pallor and shone out plainly above the vivid orange tie he wore. Between these rival features the lips appeared very long and shapeless and colourless. He bent his head and felt with two sympathetic fingers the thin hair at the crown. Little Chandler shook his head as a denial. Ignatius Galaher put on his hat again.
伊格内修斯·加拉赫摘下帽子，露出一个剪得很短的大脑袋。他的脸色沉重、苍白，胡子刮得干干净净。他的眼睛呈蓝石色，缓解了他那不健康的苍白，在他佩戴的鲜艳的橙色领带上闪闪发亮。在这些相互竞争的特征之间，嘴唇显得很长，没有形状，没有颜色。他低下头，用两根富有同情心的手指抚摸着头顶稀疏的头发。小钱德勒摇摇头表示否认。伊格内修斯·加拉赫再次戴上帽子。

‘It pulls you down,’ be said, ‘Press life. Always hurry and scurry, looking for copy and sometimes not finding it: and then, always to have something new in your stuff. Damn proofs and printers, I say, for a few days. I’m deuced glad, I can tell you, to get back to the old country. Does a fellow good, a bit of a holiday. I feel a ton better since I landed again in dear dirty Dublin.... Here you are, Tommy. Water? Say when.’
贝说：“它会让你沮丧，压迫生活。”总是匆匆忙忙，寻找副本，有时找不到：然后，总是在你的东西中加入一些新的东西。该死的校样和打印机，我说，几天。我可以告诉你，我很高兴回到祖国。伙计们好，有点假期。自从我再次降落在亲爱的肮脏的都柏林以来，我感觉好多了……你在这里，汤米。水？啥时候。'

Little Chandler allowed his whisky to be very much diluted.
小钱德勒让他的威士忌被稀释得很厉害。

‘You don’t know what’s good for you, my boy,’ said Ignatius Gallaher. ‘I drink mine neat.’
“你不知道什么对你有好处，我的孩子，”伊格内修斯·加拉赫说。 “我喝的是纯净水。”

‘I drink very little as a rule,’ said Little Chandler modestly. ‘An odd half-one or so when I meet any of the old crowd: that’s all.’
“我通常很少喝酒，”小钱德勒谦虚地说。 “当我遇到任何一个老人群时，都会有一个奇怪的半一左右：仅此而已。”

‘Ah well,’ said Ignatius Gallaher, cheerfully, ‘here’s to us and to old times and old acquaintance.’
“啊，好吧，”伊格纳修斯·加拉赫高兴地说，“谨此献给我们、献给旧时光和旧相识。”

They clinked glasses and drank the toast.
他们碰杯，喝了干杯。

‘I met some of the old gang today,’ said Ignatius Gallaher. ‘O’Hara seems to be in a bad way. What’s he doing?’
“我今天遇到了一些老帮派，”伊格内修斯·加拉赫说。奥哈拉的情况似乎很糟糕。他在做什么？'

‘Nothing, said Little Chandler. ‘He’s gone to the dogs.’
“没什么，小钱德勒说。 “他已经疯了。”

‘But Hogan has a good sit, hasn’t he?’
“但是霍根的位置很好，不是吗？”

‘Yes; he’s in the Land Commission.’
'是的;他在土地委员会工作。

‘I met him one night in London and he seemed to be very flush.... Poor O’Hara! Boose, I suppose?’
“有一天晚上我在伦敦遇见了他，他看起来非常红……可怜的奥哈拉！我想是布斯吧？

‘Other things, too,’ said Little Chandler shortly.
“还有其他事情，”小钱德勒简短地说。

Ignatius Gallaher laughed.
伊格内修斯·加拉赫笑了。

‘Tommy,’ he said, ‘I see you haven’t changed an atom. You’re the very same serious person that used to lecture me on Sunday mornings when I had a sore head and a fur on my tongue. You’d want to knock about a bit in the world. Have you never been anywhere even for a trip?’
“汤米，”他说，“我发现你没有改变一个原子。”你还是那个在周日早上当我头疼、舌头上长毛的时候经常对我说教的严肃的人。你想在这个世界上走一走。你从来没有去过任何地方，哪怕是旅行？

‘I’ve been to the Isle of Man,’ said Little Chandler.
“我去过马恩岛，”小钱德勒说。

Ignatius Gallaher laughed.
伊格内修斯·加拉赫笑了。

‘The Isle of Man!’ he said. ‘Go to London or Paris: Paris, for choice. That’d do you good.’
“马恩岛！”他说。 ‘去伦敦或巴黎：巴黎，可供选择。这对你有好处。

‘Have you seen Paris?’
“你去过巴黎吗？”

‘I should think I have! I’ve knocked about there a little.’
“我想我应该有！我在那儿闲逛了一下。

‘And is it really so beautiful as they say?’ asked Little Chandler.
“它真的像他们说的那么美丽吗？”小钱德勒问道。

He sipped a little of his drink while Ignatius Gallaher finished his boldly.
他喝了一点酒，而伊格内修斯·加拉赫则大胆地喝完了酒。

‘Beautiful?’ said Ignatius Gallaher, pausing on the word and on the flavour of his drink. ‘It’s not so beautiful, you know. Of course, it is beautiful.... But it’s the life of Paris; that’s the thing. Ah, there’s no city like Paris for gaiety, movement, excitement....’
“漂亮吗？”伊格内修斯·加拉赫说道，停顿在这个词和他的饮料的味道上。 ‘你知道，它并不那么美丽。当然，它很美……但这就是巴黎的生活；就是这样。啊，没有哪个城市像巴黎一样充满欢乐、动感、兴奋……”

Little Chandler finished his whisky and, after some trouble, succeeded in catching the barman’s eye. He ordered the same again.
小钱德勒喝完了威士忌，费了一番功夫才成功引起了酒保的注意。他又下了同样的命令。

‘I’ve been to the Moulin Rouge,’ Ignatius Gallaher continued when the barman had removed their glasses, ‘and I’ve been to all the Bohemian cafes. Hot stuff! Not for a pious chap like you, Tommy.’
“我去过红磨坊，”当酒保摘下眼镜时，伊格内修斯·加拉赫继续说道，“我也去过所有的波西米亚咖啡馆。热门！汤米，不适合像你这样虔诚的人。

Little Chandler said nothing until the barman returned with two glasses: then he touched his friend’s glass lightly and reciprocated the former toast. He was beginning to feel somewhat disillusioned. Gallaher’s accent and way of expressing himself did not please him. There was something vulgar in his friend which he had not observed before. But perhaps it was only the result of living in London amid the bustle and competition of the Press. The old personal charm was still there under this new gaudy manner. And, after all, Gallaher had lived, he had seen the world. Little Chandler looked at his friend enviously.
小钱德勒什么也没说，直到酒保端着两个杯子回来了：然后他轻轻碰了碰朋友的杯子，回敬了之前的祝酒词。他开始感到有些幻灭了。加拉赫的口音和表达方式并不令他满意。他的朋友身上有一些他以前没有注意到的粗俗之处。但也许这只是生活在伦敦、媒体的喧嚣和竞争中的结果。在这种新的华而不实的态度下，旧的个人魅力仍然存在。毕竟，加拉赫曾经活过，他见过这个世界。小钱德勒羡慕地看着他的朋友。

‘Everything in Paris is gay,’ said Ignatius Gallaher. ‘They believe in enjoying life—and don’t you think they’re right? If you want to enjoy yourself properly you must go to Paris. And, mind you, they’ve a great feeling for the Irish there. When they heard I was from Ireland they were ready to eat me, man.’
“巴黎的一切都是同性恋，”伊格内修斯·加拉赫说。 “他们相信享受生活——你不认为他们是对的吗？如果你想尽情享受，你必须去巴黎。而且，请注意，他们对那里的爱尔兰人很有感情。当他们听说我来自爱尔兰时，他们就准备吃掉我了，伙计。”

Little Chandler took four or five sips from his glass.
小钱德勒喝了四五口酒。

‘Tell me,’ he said, ‘is it true that Paris is so... immoral as they say?’
“告诉我，”他说，“巴黎真的像他们所说的那么……不道德吗？”

Ignatius Gallaher made a catholic gesture with his right arm.
伊格内修斯·加拉赫用右臂做了一个天主教的手势。

‘Every place is immoral,’ he said. ‘Of course you do find spicy bits in Paris. Go to one of the students’ balls, for instance. That’s lively, if you like, when the cocottes begin to let themselves loose. You know what they are, I suppose?’
“每个地方都是不道德的，”他说。 “当然，你在巴黎确实能找到辛辣的东西。例如，去参加一个学生的舞会。如果你愿意的话，当小​​鸟们开始自由活动时，那真是太热闹了。我想你知道它们是什么吗？

‘I’ve heard of them,’ said Little Chandler.
“我听说过他们，”小钱德勒说。

Ignatius Gallaher drank off his whisky and shook his had.
伊格内修斯·加拉赫喝掉了威士忌，然后摇了摇。

‘Ah,’ he said, ‘you may say what you like. There’s no woman like the Parisienne—for style, for go.’
‘啊，’他说，‘你爱说什么就说什么吧。没有哪个女人能像巴黎女人一样——追求时尚、追求时尚。”

‘Then it is an immoral city,’ said Little Chandler, with timid insistence—‘I mean, compared with London or Dublin?’
“那么，它就是一个不道德的城市，”小钱德勒胆怯地坚持说，“我的意思是，与伦敦或都柏林相比？”

‘London!’ said Ignatius Gallaher. ‘It’s six of one and half-a-dozen of the other. You ask Hogan, my boy. I showed him a bit about London when he was over there. He’d open your eye.... I say, Tommy, don’t make punch of that whisky: liquor up.’
“伦敦！”伊格内修斯·加拉赫说道。 “一个是六个，另一个是六个。”你问霍根，我的孩子。当他在伦敦时，我向他介绍了一些有关伦敦的情况。他会睁开你的眼睛……我说，汤米，不要用那种威士忌做宾治酒：喝点酒。

‘No, really....’
'不完全是....'

‘O, come on, another one won’t do you any harm. What is it? The same again, I suppose?’
‘哦，来吧，再一个不会对你造成任何伤害。它是什么？我想又是同样的情况吧？

‘Well... all right.’
“嗯……好吧。”

‘Francois, the same again.... Will you smoke, Tommy?’
“弗朗索瓦，又是这样……你会抽烟吗，汤米？”

Ignatius Gallaher produced his cigar-case. The two friends lit their cigars and puffed at them in silence until their drinks were served.
伊格内修斯·加拉赫拿出他的雪茄盒。两个朋友点燃雪茄，默默地吸着雪茄，直到饮料端上来。

‘I’ll tell you my opinion,’ said Ignatius Gallaher, emerging after some time from the clouds of smoke in which he had taken refuge, ‘it’s a rum world. Talk of immorality! I’ve heard of cases—what am I saying?—I’ve known them: cases of... immorality....’
“我告诉你我的看法，”伊格内修斯·加拉赫说，过了一会儿，他从他避难的烟雾中走出来，“这是一个朗姆酒的世界。”谈论不道德！我听说过一些案例——我在说什么？——我知道它们：……不道德的案例……”

Ignatius Gallaher puffed thoughtfully at his cigar and then, in a calm historian’s tone, he proceeded to sketch for his friend some pictures of the corruption which was rife abroad. He summarised the vices of many capitals and seemed inclined to award the palm to Berlin. Some things he could not vouch for (his friends had told him), but of others he had had personal experience. He spared neither rank nor caste. He revealed many of the secrets of religious houses on the Continent and described some of the practices which were fashionable in high society and ended by telling, with details, a story about an English duchess—a story which he knew to be true. Little Chandler as astonished.
伊格纳修斯·加拉赫若有所思地吸了一口雪茄，然后以一种冷静的历史学家的语气，为他的朋友画了一些国外盛行的腐败现象的图画。他总结了许多首都的弊端，似乎倾向于将棕榈树授予柏林。有些事情他不能保证（他的朋友告诉他），但有些事情他有亲身经历。他既不放过等级也不放过种姓。他揭露了欧洲大陆宗教场所的许多秘密，描述了一些上流社会流行的做法，最后详细讲述了一个关于英国公爵夫人的故事——他知道这个故事是真实的。小钱德勒很惊讶。

‘Ah, well,’ said Ignatius Gallaher, ‘here we are in old jogalong Dublin where nothing is known of such things.’
“啊，好吧，”伊格内修斯·加拉赫说，“我们现在是在都柏林老乔加隆，那里对此类事情一无所知。”

‘How dull you must find it,’ said Little Chandler, ‘after all the other places you’ve seen!’
“你一定会觉得这里多么乏味啊，”小钱德勒说，“在你看过那么多其他地方之后！”

Well,’ said Ignatius Gallaher, ‘it’s a relaxation to come over here, you know. And, after all, it’s the old country, as they say, isn’t it? You can’t help having a certain feeling for it. That’s human nature.... But tell me something about yourself. Hogan told me you had... tasted the joys of connubial bliss. Two years ago, wasn’t it?’
嗯，”伊格内修斯·加拉赫说，“你知道，来到这里是一种放松。毕竟，正如他们所说，这是古老的国家，不是吗？你情不自禁地会对它产生某种感觉。这是人性……但请告诉我一些关于你自己的事情。霍根告诉我你已经……尝到了夫妻幸福的乐趣。两年前，不是吗？

Little Chandler blushed and smiled.
小钱德勒脸红了，笑了。

‘Yes,’ he said. ‘I was married last May twelve months.’
“是的，”他说。 “我去年五月结婚十二个月了。”

‘I hope it’s not too late in the day to offer my best wishes,’ said Ignatius Gallaher. ‘I didn’t know your address or I’d have done so at the time.’
伊格内修斯·加拉赫说：“我希望现在表达我最美好的祝愿还不算太晚。” “我不知道你的地址，否则我当时就会这么做了。”

He extended his hand, which Little Chandler took.
他伸出手，小钱德勒握住了他的手。

‘Well, Tommy,’ he said, ‘I wish you and yours every joy in life, old chap, and tons of money, and may you never die till I shoot you. And that’s the wish of a sincere friend, an old friend. You know that?’
“好吧，汤米，”他说，“我祝你和你的家人生活愉快，老伙计，还有很多钱，愿你永远不会死，直到我开枪射杀你。”这是一位真诚的朋友、一位老朋友的心愿。你懂的？'

‘I know that,’ said Little Chandler.
“我知道，”小钱德勒说。

‘Any youngsters?’ said Ignatius Gallaher.
“有年轻人吗？”伊格内修斯·加拉赫说道。

Little Chandler blushed again.
小钱德勒又脸红了。

‘We have one child,’ he said.
“我们有一个孩子，”他说。

‘Son or daughter?’
“儿子还是女儿？”

‘A little boy.’
'一个小男孩。'

Ignatius Gallaher slapped his friend sonorously on the back.
伊格纳修斯·加拉赫响亮地拍了拍他朋友的背。

‘Bravo,’ he said, ‘I wouldn’t doubt you, Tommy.’
“太棒了，”他说，“我不会怀疑你，汤米。”

Little Chandler smiled, looked confusedly at his glass and bit his lower lip with three childishly white front teeth.
小钱德勒微笑着，困惑地看着他的玻璃杯，用三颗幼稚的白门牙咬着下唇。

‘I hope you’ll spend an evening with us,’ he said, ‘before you go back. My wife will be delighted to meet you. We can have a little music and——‘
“我希望你能和我们一起度过一个晚上，”他说，“然后再回去。”我的妻子会很高兴见到你。我们可以听点音乐然后——”

‘Thanks awfully, old chap,’ said Ignatius Gallaher, ‘I’m sorry we didn’t meet earlier. But I must leave tomorrow night.’
“非常感谢，老伙计，”伊格内修斯·加拉赫说，“很遗憾我们没有早点见面。但我明天晚上必须离开。”

‘Tonight, perhaps...?’
“今晚，也许……？”

‘I’m awfully sorry, old man. You see I’m over here with another fellow, clever young chap he is too, and we arranged to go to a little card-party. Only for that...’
“我非常抱歉，老伙计。你看，我和另一个家伙在这里，他也是个聪明的小伙子，我们安排去参加一个小型的纸牌派对。只为这个……”

‘O, in that case...’
「哦，这样的话……」

‘But who knows?’ said Ignatius Gallaher considerately. ‘Next year I may take a little skip over here now that I’ve broken the ice. It’s only a pleasure deferred.’
“但谁知道呢？”伊格内修斯·加拉赫体贴地说。 “既然我已经打破了僵局，明年我可能会稍微跳过这里。这只是一种延迟的快乐。

‘Very well,’ said Little Chandler, ‘the next time you come we must have an evening together. That’s agreed now, isn’t it?’
“很好，”小钱德勒说，“下次你来的时候我们一定要一起度过一个晚上。”现在已经同意了，不是吗？

‘Yes, that’s agreed,’ said Ignatius Gallaher. ‘Next year if I come, parole d’honneur.’
“是的，我们同意，”伊格内修斯·加拉赫说。 “明年如果我来，将获得荣誉假释。”

‘And to clinch the bargain,’ said Little Chandler, ‘we’ll just have one more now.’
“为了达成这笔交易，”小钱德勒说，“我们现在就再要一份。”

Ignatius Gallaher took out a large gold watch and looked a it.
伊格内修斯·加拉赫拿出一块大金表看了看。

‘Is it to be the last?’ he said. ‘Because you know, I have an a.p.’
“这是最后一次吗？”他说。 “因为你知道，我有一个 a.p.”

‘O, yes, positively,’ said Little Chandler.
“哦，是的，当然，”小钱德勒说。

‘Very well, then,’ said Ignatius Gallaher, ‘let us have another one as a deoc an doruis—that’s good vernacular for a small whisky, I believe.’
“好吧，那么，”伊格内修斯·加拉赫说，“让我们再来一杯作为 deoc an doruis——我相信，这是一种小威士忌的好地方。”

Little Chandler ordered the drinks. The blush which had risen to his face a few moments before was establishing itself. A trifle made him blush at any time: and now he felt warm and excited. Three small whiskies had gone to his head and Gallaher’s strong cigar had confused his mind, for he was a delicate and abstinent person. The adventure of meeting Gallaher after eight years, of finding himself with Gallaher in Corless’s surrounded by lights and noise, of listening to Gallaher’s stories and of sharing for a brief space Gallaher’s vagrant and triumphant life, upset the equipoise of his sensitive nature. He felt acutely the contrast between his own life and his friend’s and it seemed to him unjust. Gallaher was his inferior in birth and education. He was sure that he could do something better than his friend had ever done, or could ever do, something higher than mere tawdry journalism if he only got the chance. What was it that stood in his way? His unfortunate timidity He wished to vindicate himself in some way, to assert his manhood. He saw behind Gallaher’s refusal of his invitation. Gallaher was only patronising him by his friendliness just as he was patronising Ireland by his visit.
小钱德勒点了饮料。几分钟前，他的脸上泛起红晕。一点小事随时都会让他脸红：现在他感到温暖和兴奋。三小杯威士忌冲昏了他的头脑，加拉赫的浓烈雪茄让他神志不清，因为他是一个精致而禁欲的人。八年后与加拉赫重逢，发现自己和加拉赫一起在科勒斯的灯光和噪音包围下，聆听加拉赫的故事，分享加拉赫流浪而胜利的短暂生活，这些经历打破了他敏感天性的平衡。他敏锐地感受到自己的生活和朋友的生活之间的对比，这对他来说似乎是不公平的。加拉赫在出身和教育方面都逊于他。他确信，只要有机会，他就能做比他的朋友曾经做过的更好的事情，或者永远能做的事情，比单纯的庸俗新闻更高层次的事情。是什么阻碍了他？他不幸的胆怯，他希望以某种方式证明自己的正当性，维护他的男子气概。他看到了加拉赫拒绝邀请的背后。加拉赫只是以他的友善来居高临下，就像他以他的访问来居高临下一样。

The barman brought their drinks. Little Chandler pushed one glass towards his friend and took up the other boldly.
酒保送来了他们的饮料。小钱德勒把一只杯子推向他的朋友，然后大胆地拿起另一只。

‘Who knows?’ he said, as they lifted their glasses. ‘When you come next year I may have the pleasure of wishing long life and happiness to Mr. and Mrs. Ignatius Gallaher.’
“谁知道呢？”当他们举起眼镜时，他说道。 “当您明年来时，我可能会很荣幸地祝愿伊格内修斯·加拉赫先生和夫人长寿、幸福。”

Ignatius Gallaher in the act of drinking closed one eye expressively over the rim of his glass. When he had drunk he smacked his lips decisively, set down his glass and said:
伊格纳修斯·加拉赫（Ignatius Gallaher）在喝酒时，表情丰富地闭上了一只眼睛，放在酒杯边缘。喝完后，他果断地咂了咂嘴，放下酒杯说道：

‘No blooming fear of that, my boy. I’m going to have my fling first and see a bit of life and the world before I put my head in the sack —if I ever do.’
“不用担心，我的孩子。在我把头放进麻袋之前，我会先放纵一下，看看生活和世界——如果我愿意的话。

‘Some day you will,’ said Little Chandler calmly.
“总有一天你会的，”小钱德勒平静地说。

Ignatius Gallaher turned his orange tie and slate-blue eyes full upon his friend.
伊格纳修斯·加拉赫 (Ignatius Gallaher) 将橙色领带和深蓝色的眼睛注视着他的朋友。

‘You think so?’ he said.
“你这么认为吗？”他说。

‘You’ll put your head in the sack,’ repeated Little Chandler stoutly, ‘like everyone else if you can find the girl.’
“如果你能找到那个女孩，你就得像其他人一样，把头放进麻袋里，”小钱德勒坚定地重复道。

He had slightly emphasised his tone and he was aware that he had betrayed himself; but, though the colour had heightened in his cheek, he did not flinch from his friend’s gaze. Ignatius Gallaher watched him for a few moments and then said:
他语气稍微加重了一些，他知道自己已经出卖了自己；尽管他的脸色更红了，但他并没有在朋友的目光面前退缩。伊格内修斯·加拉赫看了他一会儿，然后说道：

‘If ever it occurs, you may bet your bottom dollar there’ll be no mooning and spooning about it. I mean to marry money. She’ll have a good fat account at the bank or she won’t do for me.’
“如果这种情况真的发生，你可以用你的底钱打赌，不会有任何闲聊和勺子。我的意思是嫁给钱。她会在银行有一个丰厚的账户，否则她不会为我做事。

Little Chandler shook his head.
小钱德勒摇摇头。

‘Why, man alive,’ said Ignatius Gallaher, vehemently, ‘do you know what it is? I’ve only to say the word and tomorrow I can have the woman and the cash. You don’t believe it? Well, I know it. There are hundreds—what am I saying?—thousands of rich Germans and Jews, rotten with money, that’d only be too glad.... You wait a while my boy. See if I don’t play my cards properly. When I go about a thing I mean business, I tell you. You just wait.’
“哎呀，活着的人，”伊格内修斯·加拉赫激烈地说，“你知道那是什么吗？我只要说一句话，明天我就能得到女人和现金。你不相信吗？嗯，我知道。有数百个——我在说什么？——数千个富有的德国人和犹太人，他们被金钱搞得烂透了，那真是太高兴了……你等一下，我的孩子。看看我的牌是不是打得不好。当我做一件事时，我是认真的，我告诉你。你就等着吧。

He tossed his glass to his mouth, finished his drink and laughed loudly. Then he looked thoughtfully before him and said in a calmer tone:
他把杯子扔到嘴边，喝完酒，放声大笑。然后他若有所思地看着前方，语气比较平静地说道：

‘But I’m in no hurry. They can wait. I don’t fancy tying myself up to one woman, you know.’
‘但我不着急。他们可以等待。你知道，我不想把自己绑在一个女人身上。

He imitated with his mouth the act of tasting and made a wry face.
他用嘴模仿着品尝的动作，做了个苦脸。

‘Must get a bit stale, I should think,’ he said.
“我想，一定是有点陈旧了，”他说。

Little Chandler sat in the room off the hall, holding a child in his arms. To save money they kept no servant but Annie’s young sister Monica came for an hour or so in the morning and an hour or so in the evening to help. But Monica had gone home long ago. It was a quarter to nine. Little Chandler had come home late for tea and, moreover, he had forgotten to bring Annie home the parcel of coffee from Bewley’s. Of course she was in a bad humour and gave him short answers. She said she would do without any tea but when it came near the time at which the shop at the corner closed she decided to go out herself for a quarter of a pound of tea and two pounds of sugar. She put the sleeping child deftly in his arms and said:
小钱德勒坐在大厅旁边的房间里，怀里抱着一个孩子。为了省钱，他们没有雇仆人，但安妮的妹妹莫妮卡早上来一个小时左右，晚上来一个小时左右来帮忙。但莫妮卡早就回家了。当时是九点差一刻。小钱德勒喝茶回家晚了，而且他还忘记把比尤利咖啡店的咖啡包带回家给安妮。当然，她心情不好，只给了他简短的回答。她说她不喝茶就行了，但当街角的商店快关门的时候，她决定自己出去买四分之一磅的茶和两磅的糖。她灵巧地将熟睡的孩子抱在怀里，说道：

‘Here. Don’t waken him.’
'这里。别吵醒他。”

A little lamp with a white china shade stood upon the table and its light fell over a photograph which was enclosed in a frame of crumpled horn. It was Annie’s photograph. Little Chandler looked at it, pausing at the thin tight lips. She wore the pale blue summer blouse which he had brought her home as a present one Saturday. It had cost him ten and elevenpence; but what an agony of nervousness it had cost him! How he had suffered that day, waiting at the shop door until the shop was empty, standing at the counter and trying to appear at his ease while the girl piled ladies’ blouses before him, paying at the desk and forgetting to take up the odd penny of his change, being called back by the cashier, and finally, striving to hide his blushes as he left the shop by examining the parcel to see if it was securely tied. When he brought the blouse home Annie kissed him and said it was very pretty and stylish; but when she heard the price she threw the blouse on the table and said it was a regular swindle to charge ten and elevenpence for it. At first she wanted to take it back but when she tried it on she was delighted with it, especially with the make of the sleeves, and kissed him and said he was very good to think of her.
桌子上立着一盏带有白色瓷灯罩的小灯，它的光落在一张照片上，照片装在皱巴巴的角框里。这是安妮的照片。小钱德勒看着它，停在薄而紧的嘴唇上。她穿着一件淡蓝色的夏季衬衫，这是他在周六带她回家作为礼物的。他花了十先令十一个便士。但这给他带来了多么大的紧张痛苦啊！那天他是多么痛苦，在商店门口等着，直到商店空了，站在柜台前，试图表现得轻松自在，而女孩却在他面前堆满了女士衬衫，在柜台付了钱，却忘了拿零钱。最后，他在离开商店时检查了包裹是否系牢，努力掩饰自己的脸红。当他把这件衬衫带回家时，安妮亲吻了他，并说这件衬衫非常漂亮、时尚。但当她听到价格时，她把衬衫扔到桌子上，并说这件衣服要价十先令十一便士，这是常见的骗局。起初她想收回它，但当她试穿时，她很满意，尤其是袖子的款式，并亲吻了他，说他很高兴想到她。

Hm!...
嗯！...

He looked coldly into the eyes of the photograph and they answered coldly. Certainly they were pretty and the face itself was pretty. But he found something mean in it. Why was it so unconscious and ladylike? The composure of the eyes irritated him. They repelled him and defied him: there was no passion in them, no rapture. He thought of what Gallaher had said about rich Jewesses. Those dark Oriental eyes, he thought, how full they are of passion, of voluptuous longing!... Why had he married the eyes in the photograph?
他冷冷地看着照片上的眼睛，照片上的眼睛也冷冷地回答。当然，她们很漂亮，而且脸本身也很漂亮。但他发现其中有些不妙。为何如此无意识、如此淑女？眼神中的镇定让他恼火。他们排斥他、反抗他：他们没有激情，没有狂喜。他想起加拉赫所说的关于富有的犹太女人的话。他想，那双深邃的东方眼睛，充满了激情，充满了性感的渴望！……他为什么要娶照片中的那双眼睛？

He caught himself up at the question and glanced nervously round the room. He found something mean in the pretty furniture which he had bought for his house on the hire system. Annie had chosen it herself and it reminded hi of her. It too was prim and pretty. A dull resentment against his life awoke within him. Could he not escape from his little house? Was it too late for him to try to live bravely like Gallaher? Could he go to London? There was the furniture still to be paid for. If he could only write a book and get it published, that might open the way for him.
他突然意识到这个问题，紧张地环顾房间。他在租赁系统上为自己的房子购买的漂亮家具中发现了一些卑鄙的东西。安妮自己选择了它，它让我想起了她。它也古板而漂亮。一种对自己生活的隐隐的怨恨在他内心苏醒。难道他就不能逃离他的小房子吗？他尝试像加拉赫一样勇敢地生活是不是太晚了？他可以去伦敦吗？还有家具要付钱。如果他只能写一本书并出版，那可能会为他开辟道路。

A volume of Byron’s poems lay before him on the table. He opened it cautiously with his left hand lest he should waken the child and began to read the first poem in the book:
他面前的桌子上放着一本拜伦的诗集。他小心翼翼地用左手打开书，以免吵醒孩子，开始读书中的第一首诗：

Hushed are the winds and still the evening gloom,
风静了，夜色依旧，

Not e’en a Zephyr wanders through the grove,
没有微风在树林中徘徊，

Whilst I return to view my Margaret’s tomb
当我回来查看玛格丽特的坟墓时

And scatter flowers on tbe dust I love.
将鲜花撒在我喜爱的尘土上。

He paused. He felt the rhythm of the verse about him in the room. How melancholy it was! Could he, too, write like that, express the melancholy of his soul in verse? There were so many things he wanted to describe: his sensation of a few hours before on Grattan Bridge, for example. If he could get back again into that mood....
他停了下来。他感觉到房间里有关他的诗句的节奏。那是多么忧郁啊！他也能这样写，用诗来表达他心灵的忧郁吗？他想要描述的事情太多了：例如，几个小时前他在格拉坦桥上的感觉。如果他能再回到那样的心情就好了……

The child awoke and began to cry. He turned from the page and tried to hush it: but it would not be hushed. He began to rock it to and fro in his arms but its wailing cry grew keener. He rocked it faster while his eyes began to read the second stanza:
孩子醒了，开始哭泣。他把书页翻过去，试图让它安静下来，但它却无法安静下来。他开始在怀里来回摇晃它，但它的哀号却越来越尖锐。他摇得更快了，眼睛开始读第二节：

Within this narrow cell reclines her clay,
在这个狭窄的牢房里躺着她的粘土，

That clay where once...
那块粘土曾经...

It was useless. He couldn’t read. He couldn’t do anything. The wailing of the child pierced the drum of his ear. It was useless, useless! He was a prisoner for life. His arms trembled with anger and suddenly bending to the child’s face he shouted:
这是没用的。他无法读书。他什么也做不了。孩子的哭声刺痛了他的耳膜。没用，没用！他是终身囚犯。他的手臂气得发抖，突然俯身对着孩子的脸喊道：

‘Stop!’
'停止！'

The child stopped for an instant, had a spasm of fright and began to scream. He jumped up from his chair and walked hastily up and down the room with the child in his arms. It began to sob piteously, losing its breath for four or five seconds, and then bursting out anew. The thin walls of the room echoed the sound. He tried to soothe it but it sobbed more convulsively. He looked at the contracted and quivering face of the child and began to be alarmed. He counted seven sobs without a break between them and caught the child to his breast in fright. If it died!...
孩子停了下来，吓得一阵痉挛，开始尖叫。他从椅子上跳起来，抱着孩子在房间里匆匆走来走去。它开始可怜兮兮地抽泣起来，断气了四五秒，然后又放声大哭起来。房间薄薄的墙壁回荡着声音。他试图安抚它，但它抽泣得更厉害了。他看着孩子那张紧绷、颤抖的脸，开始惊慌起来。他数了七声，中间没有间断，然后惊恐地把孩子抱在怀里。如果死了的话！...

The door was burst open and a young woman ran in, panting.
门被推开，一名年轻女子气喘吁吁地跑了进来。

‘What is it? What is it?’ she cried.
'它是什么？ “这是什么？”她喊道。

The child, hearing its mother’s voice, broke out into a paroxysm of sobbing.
孩子听到母亲的声音，突然抽泣起来。

‘It’s nothing, Annie ... it’s nothing.... He began to cry...’
“没什么，安妮……没什么……他开始哭了……”

She flung her parcels on the floor and snatched the child from him.
她把包裹扔在地板上，并从他手中夺走了孩子。

‘What have you done to him?’ she cried, glaring into his face.
“你对他做了什么？”她瞪着他的脸喊道。

Little Chandler sustained for one moment the gaze of her eyes and his heart closed together as he met the hatred in them. He began to stammer:
小钱德勒在她的目光中停留了一会儿，当他遇到她眼中的仇恨时，他的心合在一起。他开始结结巴巴地说：

‘It’s nothing.... He ... he began to cry.... I couldn’t ... I didn’t do anything.... What?’
“没什么……他……他开始哭……我不能……我什么也没做……什么？”

Giving no heed to him she began to walk up and down the room, clasping the child tightly in her arms and murmuring:
她没有理会他，开始在房间里走来走去，将孩子紧紧抱在怀里，低声说道：

‘My little man! My little mannie! Was ‘ou frightened, love?... There now, love! There now!... Lambabaun! Mamma’s little lamb of the world!... There now!’
‘我的小男人！我的小曼妮！你害怕了吗，亲爱的？……现在好了，亲爱的！现在就在那里！...Lambabaun！妈妈的世界小羔羊！......现在就在那里！

Little Chandler felt his cheeks suffused with shame and he stood back out of the lamplight. He listened while the paroxysm of the child’s sobbing grew less and less; and tears of remorse started to his eyes.
小钱德勒感到自己的脸颊充满了羞愧，他退到了灯光之外。他听着，孩子的抽泣声越来越少。他的眼里涌出了悔恨的泪水。

Counterparts
同行

THE bell rang furiously and, when Miss Parker went to the tube, a furious voice called out in a piercing North of Ireland accent:
铃声猛烈地响起，当帕克小姐走向地铁时，一个愤怒的声音用刺耳的北爱尔兰口音喊道：

‘Send Farrington here!’
“派法灵顿到这里来！”

Miss Parker returned to her machine, saying to a man who was writing at a desk:
帕克小姐回到她的机器前，对一个正在办公桌前写字的男人说：

‘Mr. Alleyne wants you upstairs.’
'先生。阿莱恩要你上楼。

The man muttered ‘Blast him!’ under his breath and pushed back his chair to stand up. When he stood up he was tall and of great bulk. He had a hanging face, dark wine-coloured, with fair eyebrows and moustache: his eyes bulged forward slightly and the whites of them were dirty. He lifted up the counter and, passing by the clients, went out of the office with a heavy step.
那人低声嘟哝了一句“打死他！”，然后推开椅子站了起来。当他站起来时，他身材高大，块头很大。他脸色低垂，呈深酒红色，眉毛和小胡子都很漂亮，眼睛微微向前凸出，眼白脏兮兮的。他抬起柜台，经过客户身边，迈着沉重的步伐走出了办公室。

He went heavily upstairs until he came to the second landing, where a door bore a brass plate with the inscription Mr. Alleyne. Here he halted, puffing with labour and vexation, and knocked. The shrill voice cried:
他沉重地走上楼，直到来到第二层楼梯平台，那里的一扇门上挂着一块黄铜牌，上面刻着阿莱恩先生的字样。说到这里，他停下来，气喘吁吁地敲了敲门。尖锐的声音喊道：

‘Come in!’
'进来！'

The man entered Mr. Alleyne’s room. Simultaneously Mr. Alleyne, a little man wearing gold-rimmed glasses on a cleanshaven face, shot his head up over a pile of documents. The head itself was so pink and hairless it seemed like a large egg reposing on the papers. Mr. Alleyne did not lose a moment:
那人走进了阿莱恩先生的房间。与此同时，阿莱恩先生，一个戴着金丝眼镜、脸上刮得干干净净的小个子男人，抬起头看着一堆文件。头本身是粉红色的，没有毛发，看起来就像一个大鸡蛋放在纸上。阿莱恩先生一刻也不耽误：

‘Farrington? What is the meaning of this? Why have I always to complain of you? May I ask you why you haven’t made a copy of that contract between Bodley and Kirwan? I told you it must be ready by four o’clock.’
法林顿？这是什么意思？为什么我总是抱怨你？我可以问你为什么没有复印博德利和基尔万之间的合同吗？我告诉过你四点前必须准备好。

‘But Mr. Shelley said, sir——‘
“但是雪莱先生说，先生——”

‘Mr. Shelley said, sir .... Kindly attend to what I say and not to what Mr. Shelley says, sir. You have always some excuse or another for shirking work. Let me tell you that if the contract is not copied before this evening I’ll lay the matter before Mr. Crosbie.... Do you hear me now?’
'先生。雪莱说，先生……请注意我所说的话，而不是雪莱先生所说的，先生。你总是有这样那样的借口来逃避工作。让我告诉你，如果今晚之前没有复制合同，我会将此事提交给克罗斯比先生......你现在听到我的声音了吗？

‘Yes, sir.’
'是的先生。'

‘Do you hear me now?... Ay and another little matter! I might as well be talking to the wall as talking to you. Understand once for all that you get a half an hour for your lunch and not an hour and a half. How many courses do you want, I’d like to know.... Do you mind me now?’
“你现在听到我说话了吗？……嗯，还有一件小事！”我对着墙说话就像对着你说话一样。彻底明白，你的午餐时间是半小时，而不是一个半小时。我想知道你想要多少课程……你现在介意我吗？

‘Yes, sir.’
'是的先生。'

Mr. Alleyne bent his head again upon his pile of papers. The man stared fixedly at the polished skull which directed the affairs of Crosbie & Alleyne, gauging its fragility. A spasm of rage gripped his throat for a few moments and then passed, leaving after it a sharp sensation of thirst. The man recognised the sensation and felt that he must have a good night’s drinking. The middle of the month was passed and, if he could get the copy done in time, Mr. Alleyne might give him an order on the cashier. He stood still, gazing fixedly at the head upon the pile of papers. Suddenly Mr. Alleyne began to upset all the papers, searching for something. Then, as if he had been unaware of the man’s presence till that moment, he shot up his head again, saying:
阿莱恩先生又把头低到他那堆文件上。男人目不转睛地盯着负责克罗斯比和阿莱恩事务的抛光头骨，估量着它的脆弱性。一股愤怒的痉挛抓住了他的喉咙，片刻之后就消失了，留下的是强烈的口渴感。男人意识到了这种感觉，觉得他必须好好喝一晚了。月中已经过去了，如果他能及时完成副本，阿莱恩先生可能会在收银台上给他下命令。他一动不动地站着，目不转睛地盯着那堆文件上的头像。突然，阿莱恩先生开始翻阅所有的报纸，寻找着什么。然后，他仿佛一直没有意识到这个人的存在，再次抬起头，道：

‘Eh? Are you going to stand there all day? Upon my word, Farrington, you take things easy!’
‘呃？你要站在那里一整天吗？我保证，法灵顿，你放轻松！”

‘I was waiting to see...’
“我正等着看……”

‘Very good, you needn’t wait to see. Go downstairs and do your work.’
‘很好，你不用等看。下楼去做你的工作吧。

The man walked heavily towards the door and, as he went out of the room, he heard Mr. Alleyne cry after him that if the contract was not copied by evening Mr. Crosbie would hear of the matter.
那人沉重地朝门口走去，当他走出房间时，他听到阿莱恩先生在他身后哭泣，如果晚上之前没有抄下合同，克罗斯比先生就会听到这件事。

He returned to his desk in the lower office and counted the sheets which remained to be copied. He took up his pen and dipped it in the ink but he continued to stare stupidly at the last words he had written: In no case shall the said Bernard Bodley be... The evening was falling and in a few minutes they would be lighting the gas: then he could write. He felt that he must slake the thirst in his throat. He stood up from his desk and, lifting the counter as before, passed out of the office. As he was passing out the chief clerk looked at him inquiringly.
他回到下层办公室的办公桌前，清点着还需要复印的纸张。他拿起笔，蘸了蘸墨水，但仍然傻傻地盯着自己写下的最后几个字：无论如何，所说的伯纳德·博德利都不会……夜幕降临，几分钟后，他们就会亮起来。气：那他就可以写了。他觉得自己必须解解喉咙里的干渴。他从办公桌上站起来，像以前一样抬起柜台，走出了办公室。当他昏倒时，首席职员询问地看着他。

‘It’s all right, Mr. Shelley,’ said the man, pointing with his finger to indicate the objective of his journey.
“没关系，雪莱先生。”那人一边说，一边用手指着他此行的目的。

The chief clerk glanced at the hat-rack, but, seeing the row complete, offered no remark. As soon as he was on the landing the man pulled a shepherd’s plaid cap out of his pocket, put it on his head and ran quickly down the rickety stairs. From the street door he walked on furtively on the inner side of the path towards the corner and all at once dived into a doorway. He was now safe in the dark snug of O’Neill’s shop, and filling up the little window that looked into the bar with his inflamed face, the colour of dark wine or dark meat, he called out:
首席办事员看了一眼帽架，但看到一排已经完成，没有发表任何评论。刚到楼梯平台，那人就从口袋里掏出一顶牧羊人的格子帽，戴在头上，然后快步跑下摇摇晃晃的楼梯。他从临街的门口偷偷地沿着小路内侧向拐角处走去，突然钻进了一个门口。现在他安全地待在奥尼尔店里黑暗而舒适的地方，他那张发炎的脸，深酒色或深色肉的颜色，充满了向酒吧望去的小窗户，大声喊道：

‘Here, Pat, give us a g.p.. like a good fellow.’
“帕特，给我们一个全科医生……像个好人一样。”

The curate brought him a glass of plain porter. The man drank it at a gulp and asked for a caraway seed. He put his penny on the counter and, leaving the curate to grope for it in the gloom, retreated out of the snug as furtively as he had entered it.
牧师给他端来了一杯原味波特酒。那人一口气喝了下去，并要了一颗香菜籽。他把硬币放在柜台上，让神甫在昏暗中摸索，然后像他进来时一样偷偷地退出了舒适的房间。

Darkness, accompanied by a thick fog, was gaining upon the dusk of February and the lamps in Eustace Street had been lit. The man went up by the houses until he reached the door of the office, wondering whether he could finish his copy in time. On the stairs a moist pungent odour of perfumes saluted his nose: evidently Miss Delacour had come while he was out in O’Neill’s. He crammed his cap back again into his pocket and re-entered the office, assuming an air of absentmindedness.
二月的黄昏，夜幕降临，伴随着浓浓的雾气，尤斯塔斯街的灯火已经亮了起来。那人沿着房屋走去，直到到达办公室门口，想知道他是否能及时完成他的副本。楼梯上，一股湿润刺鼻的香水味扑鼻而来：显然，德拉库尔小姐是在他出去奥尼尔店的时候来的。他又把帽子塞进口袋里，一副心不在焉的样子重新走进办公室。

‘Mr. Alleyne has been calling for you,’ said the chief clerk severely. ‘Where were you?’
'先生。艾莱恩一直在喊你。”首席职员严厉地说。 '当时你在哪里？'

The man glanced at the two clients who were standing at the counter as if to intimate that their presence prevented him from answering. As the clients were both male the chief clerk allowed himself a laugh.
男人看了一眼柜台前的两名顾客，似乎是在暗示他们的存在让他无法接听。由于顾客都是男性，店长笑了起来。

‘I know that game,’ he said. ‘Five times in one day is a little bit... Well, you better look sharp and get a copy of our correspondence in the Delacour case for Mr. Alleyne.’
“我知道那场比赛，”他说。 “一天五次有点儿……好吧，你最好看清楚，给阿莱恩先生拿一份我们在德拉库尔案中的信件副本。”

This address in the presence of the public, his run upstairs and the porter he had gulped down so hastily confused the man and, as he sat down at his desk to get what was required, he realised how hopeless was the task of finishing his copy of the contract before half past five. The dark damp night was coming and he longed to spend it in the bars, drinking with his friends amid the glare of gas and the clatter of glasses. He got out the Delacour correspondence and passed out of the office. He hoped Mr. Alleyne would not discover that the last two letters were missing.
当着公众的面写这篇演讲，他跑上楼去，还有他匆忙吞下的搬运工，这一切都让这个人感到困惑，当他坐在办公桌前拿需要的东西时，他意识到完成他的副本的任务是多么无望。五点半之前签订合同。漆黑潮湿的夜晚即将来临，他渴望在酒吧里度过，在刺眼的煤气灯和玻璃杯的碰撞声中与朋友们一起喝酒。他拿出德拉库尔的信件，然后走出了办公室。他希望阿莱恩先生不会发现最后两封信不见了。

The moist pungent perfume lay all the way up to Mr. Alleyne’s room. Miss Delacour was a middle-aged woman of Jewish appearance. Mr. Alleyne was said to be sweet on her or on her money. She came to the office often and stayed a long time when she came. She was sitting beside his desk now in an aroma of perfumes, smoothing the handle of her umbrella and nodding the great black feather in her hat. Mr. Alleyne had swivelled his chair round to face her and thrown his right foot jauntily upon his left knee. The man put the correspondence on the desk and bowed respectfully but neither Mr. Alleyne nor Miss Delacour took any notice of his bow. Mr. Alleyne tapped a finger on the correspondence and then flicked it towards him as if to say: ‘That’s all right: you can go.’
潮湿刺鼻的香水味一直飘到阿莱恩先生的房间里。德拉库尔小姐是一位犹太长相的中年妇女。据说阿莱恩先生对她或她的钱很友善。她经常来办公室，来的时候待的时间也很长。她现在坐在他的办公桌旁，身上弥漫着香水的香气，抚平伞柄，点着帽子上的黑色大羽毛。阿莱恩先生把他的椅子转过来面对着她，并把右脚得意地放在左膝上。那人把信件放在桌子上，恭敬地鞠了一躬，但阿莱恩先生和德拉库尔小姐都没有注意到他的鞠躬。阿莱恩先生用手指敲了敲信件，然后把它弹向他，仿佛在说：“没关系，你可以走了。”

The man returned to the lower office and sat down again at his desk. He stared intently at the incomplete phrase: In no case shall the said Bernard Bodley be... and thought how strange it was that the last three words began with the same letter. The chief clerk began to hurry Miss Parker, saying she would never have the letters typed in time for post. The man listened to the clicking of the machine for a few minutes and then set to work to finish his copy. But his head was not clear and his mind wandered away to the glare and rattle of the public-house. It was a night for hot punches. He struggled on with his copy, but when the clock struck five he had still fourteen pages to write. Blast it! He couldn’t finish it in time. He longed to execrate aloud, to bring his fist down on something violently. He was so enraged that he wrote Bernard Bernard instead of Bernard Bodley and had to begin again on a clean sheet.
男人回到下层办公室，又在办公桌前坐下。他专注地盯着那句不完整的短语：在任何情况下，所说的伯纳德·鲍德利都不得……并想到最后三个单词以同一个字母开头是多么奇怪。首席职员开始催促帕克小姐，说她永远不可能及时把信打好寄出去。那人听了几分钟机器的咔哒声，然后开始完成他的副本。但他的头脑并不清醒，他的思绪飘到了酒店的眩光和喧闹声中。这是一个热拳的夜晚。他艰难地继续写作业，但当时钟敲响五点时，他还有十四页要写。爆炸吧！他没能及时完成。他渴望大声咒骂，用拳头猛烈地击打某样东西。他非常愤怒，以至于他写下了伯纳德·伯纳德而不是伯纳德·博德利，并且不得不从零开始。

He felt strong enough to clear out the whole office singlehanded. His body ached to do something, to rush out and revel in violence. All the indignities of his life enraged him.... Could he ask the cashier privately for an advance? No, the cashier was no good, no damn good: he wouldn’t give an advance.... He knew where he would meet the boys: Leonard and O’Halloran and Nosey Flynn. The barometer of his emotional nature was set for a spell of riot.
他感觉自己有足够的力量独自清理整个办公室。他的身体渴望做点什么，渴望冲出去享受暴力。一生中所有的屈辱都激怒了他……他能私下向收银员要预付款吗？不，收银员不好，真他妈的不好：他不会预付款……他知道他会在哪里见到男孩们：伦纳德、奥哈洛伦和诺西·弗林。他的情感天性的晴雨表注定会经历一段骚乱。

His imagination had so abstracted him that his name was called twice before he answered. Mr. Alleyne and Miss Delacour were standing outside the counter and all the clerks had turn round in anticipation of something. The man got up from his desk. Mr. Alleyne began a tirade of abuse, saying that two letters were missing. The man answered that he knew nothing about them, that he had made a faithful copy. The tirade continued: it was so bitter and violent that the man could hardly restrain his fist from descending upon the head of the manikin before him:
他的想象力如此分散，以至于他的名字在他回答之前被叫了两次。阿莱恩先生和德拉库尔小姐站在柜台外，所有的店员都转过身来，期待着发生什么事。男人从办公桌上站起来。阿莱恩先生开始长篇大论地谩骂，说有两封信不见了。那人回答说他对这些文件一无所知，他只是忠实地复制了一份。长篇大论还在继续：它是如此的痛苦和暴力，以至于那个人几乎无法克制自己的拳头落在了他面前的人体模型的头上：

‘I know nothing about any other two letters,’ he said stupidly.
“我对另外两封信一无所知，”他傻乎乎地说。

‘You—know—nothing. Of course you know nothing,’ said Mr. Alleyne. ‘Tell me,’ he added, glancing first for approval to the lady beside him, ‘do you take me for a fool? Do you think me an utter fool?’
'你什么也不知道。你当然一无所知，”阿莱恩先生说。 “告诉我，”他补充道，首先看了一眼身旁的女士以获得认可，“你把我当傻瓜吗？你认为我是个十足的傻瓜吗？

The man glanced from the lady’s face to the little egg-shaped head and back again; and, almost before he was aware of it, his tongue had found a felicitous moment:
男人的目光从女士的脸上扫到蛋形的小脑袋，然后又转回来。几乎在他意识到之前，他的舌头已经找到了一个恰当的时机：

‘I don’t think, sir,’ he said, ‘that that’s a fair question to put to me.’
“我认为，先生，”他说，“向我提出这个问题不公平。”

There was a pause in the very breathing of the clerks. Everyone was astounded (the author of the witticism no less than his neighbours) and Miss Delacour, who was a stout amiable person, began to smile broadly. Mr. Alleyne flushed to the hue of a wild rose and his mouth twitched with a dwarf s passion. He shook his fist in the man’s face till it seemed to vibrate like the knob of some electric machine:
店员们的呼吸都暂停了。每个人都惊呆了（这个俏皮话的作者不亚于他的邻居），而德拉库尔小姐，这位身材魁梧的和蔼可亲的人，开始露出灿烂的笑容。阿莱恩先生脸色涨得像野玫瑰，嘴角因侏儒般的激情而抽搐。他对着男人的脸晃动拳头，直到拳头像电机的旋钮一样振动：

‘You impertinent ruffian! You impertinent ruffian! I’ll make short work of you! Wait till you see! You’ll apologise to me for your impertinence or you’ll quit the office instanter! You’ll quit this, I’m telling you, or you’ll apologise to me!’
‘你这个无礼的恶棍！你这个无礼的痞子！我会尽快解决你的！等你看到！你会为你的无礼向我道歉，否则你就立即辞职！我告诉你，你得放弃这个，否则你就会向我道歉！

He stood in a doorway opposite the office watching to see if the cashier would come out alone. All the clerks passed out and finally the cashier came out with the chief clerk. It was no use trying to say a word to him when he was with the chief clerk. The man felt that his position was bad enough. He had been obliged to offer an abject apology to Mr. Alleyne for his impertinence but he knew what a hornet’s nest the office would be for him. He could remember the way in which Mr. Alleyne had hounded little Peake out of the office in order to make room for his own nephew. He felt savage and thirsty and revengeful, annoyed with himself and with everyone else. Mr. Alleyne would never give him an hour’s rest; his life would be a hell to him. He had made a proper fool of himself this time. Could he not keep his tongue in his cheek? But they had never pulled together from the first, he and Mr. Alleyne, ever since the day Mr. Alleyne had overheard him mimicking his North of Ireland accent to amuse Higgins and Miss Parker: that had been the beginning of it. He might have tried Higgins for the money, but sure Higgins never had anything for himself. A man with two establishments to keep up, of course he couldn’t....
他站在办公室对面的门口，观察收银员是否会单独出来。所有的店员都昏倒了，最后收银员带着首席店员走了出来。当他和首席书记员在一起时，试图对他说一句话是没有用的。男人觉得自己的处境已经够糟糕了。他不得不为自己的无礼行为向阿莱恩先生表示卑鄙的歉意，但他知道这个办公室对他来说将是一个怎样的马蜂窝。他还记得阿莱恩先生如何把小皮克赶出办公室，以便给自己的侄子腾出地方。他感到野蛮、口渴、报复心强，对自己和其他人都感到恼火。阿莱恩先生绝对不会给他一个小时的休息时间。他的生活对他来说将是地狱。这一次他可真是出洋相了。他就不能把舌头放在脸颊上吗？但他和阿莱恩先生从一开始就没有走到一起，自从阿莱恩先生无意中听到他模仿北爱尔兰口音逗希金斯和帕克小姐的那天起：这就是一切的开始。他可能会为了钱而尝试希金斯，但可以肯定的是，希金斯从来没有为自己带来任何东西。一个有两个机构要跟上的人，他当然不能……

He felt his great body again aching for the comfort of the public-house. The fog had begun to chill him and he wondered could he touch Pat in O’Neill’s. He could not touch him for more than a bob—and a bob was no use. Yet he must get money somewhere or other: he had spent his last penny for the g.p. and soon it would be too late for getting money anywhere. Suddenly, as he was fingering his watch-chain, he thought of Terry Kelly’s pawn-office in Fleet Street. That was the dart! Why didn’t he think of it sooner?
他感到自己庞大的身体再次渴望酒吧的舒适。雾气开始让他感到寒冷，他想知道他能不能碰一下奥尼尔店里的帕特。他不能碰他超过一个鲍勃——而一个鲍勃是没有用的。然而他必须从某个地方弄到钱：他已经把最后一分钱花在了全科医生身上。很快，无论去哪里赚钱都为时已晚。突然，当他拨弄着表链时，他想起了特里·凯利在舰队街的当铺。那是飞镖！他为什么不早点想到呢？

He went through the narrow alley of Temple Bar quickly, muttering to himself that they could all go to hell because he was going to have a good night of it. The clerk in Terry Kelly’s said A crown! but the consignor held out for six shillings; and in the end the six shillings was allowed him literally. He came out of the pawn-office joyfully, making a little cylinder, of the coins between his thumb and fingers. In Westmoreland Street the footpaths were crowded with young men and women returning from business and ragged urchins ran here and there yelling out the names of the evening editions. The man passed through the crowd, looking on the spectacle generally with proud satisfaction and staring masterfully at the office-girls. His head was full of the noises of tramgongs and swishing trolleys and his nose already sniffed the curling fumes punch. As he walked on he preconsidered the terms in which he would narrate the incident to the boys:
他快步穿过圣殿酒吧区的狭窄小巷，心里嘀咕着他们都该下地狱了，因为他要度过一个美好的夜晚。特里凯利店的店员说：一顶皇冠！但发货人坚持要六先令。最后，这六先令确实是给了他。他高兴地走出当铺，用拇指和手指把硬币做成了一个小圆柱体。威斯特摩兰街的人行道上挤满了做完生意回来的年轻男女，衣衫褴褛的顽童跑来跑去，喊着晚报的名字。男人穿过人群，满脸自豪地看着这一幕，娴熟地盯着女职员们。他的脑子里充满了有轨电车和有轨电车呼啸而过的声音，他的鼻子已经嗅到了那股袅袅的烟雾。当他继续前行时，他预先考虑了向孩子们讲述这件事的措辞：

‘So, I just looked at him—coolly, you know, and looked at her. Then I looked back at him again—taking my time, you know. ‘I don’t think that that’s a fair question to put to me,’ says I.’
“所以，我只是冷静地看着他，你知道，然后又看着她。然后我又回头看了他一眼——慢慢来，你知道。 “我认为向我提出这个问题不公平，”我说。

Nosey Flynn was sitting up in his usual corner of Davy Byrne’s and, when he heard the story, he stood Farrington a half-one, saying it was as smart a thing as ever he heard. Farrington stood a drink in his turn. After a while O’Halloran and Paddy Leonard came in and the story was repeated to them. O’Halloran stood tailors of malt, hot, all round and told the story of the retort he had made to the chief clerk when he was in Callan’s of Fownes’s Street; but, as the retort was after the manner of the liberal shepherds in the eclogues, he had to admit that it was not as clever as Farrington’s retort. At this Farrington told the boys to polish off that and have another.
诺西·弗林坐在戴维·伯恩家他常去的角落里，当他听到这个故事时，他对法林顿站了起来，说这是他听过的最聪明的事情。法林顿也轮到他喝了一杯。过了一会儿，奥哈洛伦和帕迪·伦纳德进来了，向他们重复了这个故事。奥哈洛伦站在麦芽裁缝周围，热气腾腾，四面八方，讲述了他在福恩斯街卡伦店时向首席店员反驳的故事。但是，由于这种反驳是效仿牧歌中自由派牧羊人的方式，他不得不承认，这并不像法林顿的反驳那么聪明。这时，法林顿告诉孩子们把这个做完，再做一个。

Just as they were naming their poisons who should come in but Higgins! Of course he had to join in with the others. The men asked him to give his version of it, and he did so with great vivacity for the sight of five small hot whiskies was very exhilarating. Everyone roared laughing when he showed the way in which Mr. Alleyne shook his fist in Farrington’s face. Then he imitated Farrington, saying, ‘And here was my nabs, as cool as you please,’ while Farrington looked at the company out of his heavy dirty eyes, smiling and at times drawing forth stray drops of liquor from his moustache with the aid of his lower lip.
就像他们正在命名他们的毒药一样，除了希金斯之外谁应该进来！当然，他也得和其他人一起。男人们请他给出自己的版本，他非常高兴地照做了，因为看到五杯小杯热威士忌真是令人兴奋。当他向法林顿展示阿莱恩先生挥舞拳头的样子时，每个人都哈哈大笑。然后他模仿法林顿说：“这是我的领子，随你怎么酷。”而法林顿用他那双又脏又重的眼睛看着大家，微笑着，有时用帮助从他的小胡子上吸出几滴酒。他的下唇。

When that round was over there was a pause. O’Halloran had money but neither of the other two seemed to have any; so the whole party left the shop somewhat regretfully. At the corner of Duke Street Higgins and Nosey Flynn bevelled off to the left while the other three turned back towards the city. Rain was drizzling down on the cold streets and, when they reached the Ballast Office, Farrington suggested the Scotch House. The bar was full of men and loud with the noise of tongues and glasses. The three men pushed past the whining matchsellers at the door and formed a little party at the corner of the counter. They began to exchange stories. Leonard introduced them to a young fellow named Weathers who was performing at the Tivoli as an acrobat and knockabout artiste. Farrington stood a drink all round. Weathers said he would take a small Irish and Apollinaris. Farrington, who had definite notions of what was what, asked the boys would they have an Apollinaris too; but the boys told Tim to make theirs hot. The talk became theatrical. O’Halloran stood a round and then Farrington stood another round, Weathers protesting that the hospitality was too Irish. He promised to get them in behind the scenes and introduce them to some nice girls. O’Halloran said that he and Leonard would go, but that Farrington wouldn’t go because he was a married man; and Farrington’s heavy dirty eyes leered at the company in token that he understood he was being chaffed. Weathers made them all have just one little tincture at his expense and promised to meet them later on at Mulligan’s in Poolbeg Street.
当这一轮结束时，有一个暂停。奥哈洛伦有钱，但其他两人似乎都没有钱。于是一行人有些遗憾地离开了商店。在杜克街的拐角处，希金斯和诺西·弗林向左倾斜，而其他三人则转向城市。寒冷的街道上正下着毛毛细雨，当他们到达镇流器办公室时，法林顿建议去苏格兰屋。酒吧里挤满了男人，舌头和酒杯的声音很吵。三个人推开门口抱怨的火柴小贩，在柜台一角围成了一个小聚会。他们开始交换故事。伦纳德向他们介绍了一位名叫韦瑟斯的年轻人，他正在蒂沃利表演杂技演员和胡闹艺术家。法林顿在周围站着喝酒。韦瑟斯说他会带一只小爱尔兰和阿波利纳里斯。法林顿对什么是什么有明确的概念，他问男孩们是否也有一个阿波利纳里斯；但男孩们告诉蒂姆把他们的热起来。谈话变得戏剧化。奥哈洛伦站了一轮，然后法林顿站了另一轮，韦瑟斯抗议说这种热情好客太爱尔兰化了。他答应让他们进入幕后，并把他们介绍给一些漂亮的女孩。奥哈洛伦说他和伦纳德会去，但法林顿不会去，因为他是已婚男人；法灵顿那双又脏又重的眼睛斜视着大家，表示他知道自己被嘲笑了。韦瑟斯出钱让他们所有人都喝了一点酊剂，并答应稍后在普尔贝格街的穆里根店与他们见面。

When the Scotch House closed they went round to Mulligan’s. They went into the parlour at the back and O’Halloran ordered small hot specials all round. They were all beginning to feel mellow. Farrington was just standing another round when Weathers came back. Much to Farrington’s relief he drank a glass of bitter this time. Funds were getting low but they had enough to keep them going. Presently two young women with big hats and a young man in a check suit came in and sat at a table close by. Weathers saluted them and told the company that they were out of the Tivoli. Farrington’s eyes wandered at every moment in the direction of one of the young women. There was something striking in her appearance. An immense scarf of peacock-blue muslin was wound round her hat and knotted in a great bow under her chin; and she wore bright yellow gloves, reaching to the elbow. Farrington gazed admiringly at the plump arm which she moved very often and with much grace; and when, after a little time, she answered his gaze he admired still more her large dark brown eyes. The oblique staring expression in them fascinated him. She glanced at him once or twice and, when the party was leaving the room, she brushed against his chair and said ‘O, pardon!’ in a London accent. He watched her leave the room in the hope that she would look back at him, but he was disappointed. He cursed his want of money and cursed all the rounds he had stood, particularly all the whiskies and Apolinaris which he had stood to Weathers. If there was one thing that he hated it was a sponge. He was so angry that he lost count of the conversation of his friends.
苏格兰酒馆关门后，他们又去了穆里根酒馆。他们走进后面的客厅，奥哈洛伦点了各种小份热菜。他们都开始感觉成熟起来。当威瑟斯回来时，法林顿刚刚又站了一轮。这次他喝了一杯苦酒，这让法林顿松了口气。资金越来越少，但他们有足够的钱维持下去。不一会儿，两个戴大帽子的年轻女子和一个穿着格子西装的年轻男子走了进来，坐在附近的一张桌子旁。韦瑟斯向他们敬礼，并告诉连队他们已经离开蒂沃利了。法林顿的目光每时每刻都在向其中一位年轻女子的方向游移。她的外表中有一种引人注目的东西。一条巨大的孔雀蓝色平纹细布围巾围在她的帽子上，并在下巴下打了一个大蝴蝶结。她戴着亮黄色的手套，手套一直伸到肘部。法林顿钦佩地凝视着她那只胖乎乎的手臂，她经常优雅地移动它。过了一会儿，当她回应他的目光时，他更加欣赏她那双深棕色的大眼睛。他们那斜视的表情让他着迷。她看了他一两眼，当一行人离开房间时，她擦着他的椅子，用伦敦口音说“哦，请原谅！”。他看着她离开房间，希望她能回头看他一眼，但他很失望。他咒骂自己缺钱，咒骂他喝过的每一轮酒，尤其是他给威瑟斯喝过的所有威士忌和阿波利纳里斯威士忌。如果说他讨厌一件事的话，那就是海绵。他气得记不清朋友们的谈话内容了。

When Paddy Leonard called him he found that they were talking about feats of strength. Weathers was showing his biceps muscle to the company and boasting so much that the other two had called on Farrington to uphold the national honour. Farrington pulled up his sleeve accordingly and showed his biceps muscle to the company. The two arms were examined and compared and finally it was agreed to have a trial of strength. The table was cleared and the two men rested their elbows on it, clasping hands. When Paddy Leonard said ‘Go!’ each was to try to bring down the other’s hand on to the table. Farrington looked very serious and determined.
当帕迪·伦纳德打电话给他时，他发现他们正在谈论力量的壮举。韦瑟斯向连队展示了他的二头肌，并大肆吹嘘，以至于另外两人呼吁法林顿维护国家荣誉。法林顿相应地挽起了袖子，向连队展示了自己的二头肌。两只手臂经过检查、比较，最后同意比试一下。桌子被清理干净，两个人把手肘搁在桌子上，紧握双手。当帕迪·伦纳德说“开始！”时，每个人都试图将对方的手放在桌子上。法林顿看起来非常严肃和坚定。

The trial began. After about thirty seconds Weathers brought his opponent’s hand slowly down on to the table. Farrington’s dark wine-coloured face flushed darker still with anger and humiliation at having been defeated by such a stripling.
审判开始了。大约三十秒后，韦瑟斯将对手的手慢慢放到桌子上。法林顿那张深酒红色的脸因被这样一个小伙子打败而感到愤怒和羞辱，脸变得更红了。

‘You’re not to put the weight of your body behind it. Play fair,’ he said.
‘你不能把你身体的重量放在后面。公平竞争，”他说。

‘Who’s not playing fair?’ said the other.
“谁不公平竞争？”另一个人说。

‘Come on again. The two best out of three.’
‘再来吧。三者中最好的两个。

The trial began again. The veins stood out on Farrington’s forehead, and the pallor of Weathers’ complexion changed to peony. Their hands and arms trembled under the stress. After a long struggle Weathers again brought his opponent’s hand slowly on to the table. There was a murmur of applause from the spectators. The curate, who was standing beside the table, nodded his red head towards the victor and said with stupid familiarity:
审判再次开始。法林顿额头上青筋暴起，韦瑟斯的脸色也变成了牡丹色。他们的手和手臂在压力下颤抖。经过长时间的挣扎，韦瑟斯再次将对手的手慢慢地放到了桌子上。观众们发出一阵阵热烈的掌声。站在桌子旁边的神父向胜利者点了点头，用一种愚蠢而熟悉的语气说道：

‘Ah! that’s the knack!’
'啊！这就是诀窍！

‘What the hell do you know about it?’ said Farrington fiercely, turning on the man. ‘What do you put in your gab for?’
“你到底知道什么？”法林顿转过身来对着那个人，恶狠狠地说。 “你胡言乱语是为了什么？”

‘Sh, sh!’ said O’Halloran, observing the violent expression of Farrington’s face. ‘Pony up, boys. We’ll have just one little smahan more and then we’ll be off.’
“嘘，嘘！”奥哈洛伦一边说，一边观察着法林顿脸上的暴力表情。 “小马们，小马们。”我们再喝一点 smahan，然后我们就出发了。

A very sullen-faced man stood at the corner of O’Connell Bridge waiting for the little Sandymount tram to take him home. He was full of smouldering anger and revengefulness. He felt humiliated and discontented; he did not even feel drunk; and he had only twopence in his pocket. He cursed everything. He had done for himself in the office, pawned his watch, spent all his money; and he had not even got drunk. He began to feel thirsty again and he longed to be back again in the hot reeking public-house. He had lost his reputation as a strong man, having been defeated twice by a mere boy. His heart swelled with fury and, when he thought of the woman in the big hat who had brushed against him and said Pardon! his fury nearly choked him.
一个脸色阴沉的男人站在奥康奈尔桥的拐角处，等待桑迪蒙特小电车送他回家。他心中充满了压抑的愤怒和报复。他感到羞辱和不满；他甚至不觉得醉了。他口袋里只有两便士。他诅咒一切。他在办公室为自己谋取了利益，当掉了手表，花光了所有的钱。他甚至还没有喝醉。他又开始感到口渴，渴望再次回到那间热气腾腾、臭气熏天的酒馆。他两次被一个小子打败，已经失去了强者的名声。他心里怒火中烧，想到那个戴大帽子的女人对他擦身而过，说“对不起”！他的愤怒几乎让他窒息。

His tram let him down at Shelbourne Road and he steered his great body along in the shadow of the wall of the barracks. He loathed returning to his home. When he went in by the sidedoor he found the kitchen empty and the kitchen fire nearly out. He bawled upstairs:
他的电车在谢尔本路下车，他驾驶着庞大的身躯在军营墙的阴影下前行。他讨厌回到自己的家。当他从侧门进去时，发现厨房空无一人，厨房的火也几乎熄灭了。他在楼上大喊：

‘Ada! Ada!’
‘艾达！艾达！’

His wife was a little sharp-faced woman who bullied her husband when he was sober and was bullied by him when he was drunk. They had five children. A little boy came running down the stairs.
他的老婆是个尖脸小女人，清醒的时候欺负自己的丈夫，喝醉的时候又被他欺负。他们有五个孩子。一个小男孩从楼梯上跑下来。

‘Who is that?’ said the man, peering through the darkness.
“那人是谁？”那人透过黑暗问道。

‘Me, pa.’
“我，爸爸。”

‘Who are you? Charlie?’
'你是谁？查理？

‘No, pa. Tom.’
‘不，爸爸。汤姆。”

‘Where’s your mother?’
“你妈妈在哪儿？”

‘She’s out at the chapel.’
“她在教堂外面。”

‘That’s right.... Did she think of leaving any dinner for me?’
“是啊……她有没有想过给我留晚饭？”

‘Yes, pa. I —‘
是的，爸爸。我 -'

‘Light the lamp. What do you mean by having the place in darkness? Are the other children in bed?’
‘点灯。你所说的把这个地方置于黑暗中是什么意思？其他孩子都在床上了吗？

The man sat down heavily on one of the chairs while the little boy lit the lamp. He began to mimic his son’s flat accent, saying half to himself: ‘At the chapel. At the chapel, if you please!’ When the lamp was lit he banged his fist on the table and shouted:
男人重重地坐在一张椅子上，小男孩点着灯。他开始模仿儿子平淡的口音，半自言自语地说：“在教堂。”在教堂，如果你愿意的话！”当灯亮起时，他用拳头敲击桌子，喊道：

‘What’s for my dinner?’
“我的晚餐吃什么？”

‘I’m going... to cook it, pa,’ said the little boy.
“我要去……做饭，爸爸，”小男孩说。

The man jumped up furiously and pointed to the fire.
那人愤怒地跳起来，指着火。

‘On that fire! You let the fire out! By God, I’ll teach you to do that again!’
‘在那场火上！你把火扑灭了！老天爷啊，我一定会再教你一次！”

He took a step to the door and seized the walking-stick which was standing behind it.
他走到门口，抓住门后的手杖。

‘I’ll teach you to let the fire out!’ he said, rolling up his sleeve in order to give his arm free play.
“我来教你如何把火扑灭！”他一边说，一边卷起袖子，让手臂可以自由活动。

The little boy cried ‘O, pa!’ and ran whimpering round the table, but the man followed him and caught him by the coat. The little boy looked about him wildly but, seeing no way of escape, fell upon his knees.
小男孩叫着“噢，爸爸！”并呜咽着绕着桌子跑，但那人跟着他，抓住了他的外套。小男孩疯狂地环顾四周，但发现无路可逃，便跪倒在地。

‘Now, you’ll let the fire out the next time!’ said the man striking at him vigorously with the stick. ‘Take that, you little whelp!’
“现在，下次你就把火灭了！”那人用棍子用力地打他说。 “拿着这个，你这个小崽子！”

The boy uttered a squeal of pain as the stick cut his thigh. He clasped his hands together in the air and his voice shook with fright.
当棍子划破他的大腿时，男孩发出痛苦的尖叫声。他双手在空中握在一起，声音因惊恐而颤抖。

‘O, pa!’ he cried. ‘Don’t beat me, pa! And I’ll... I’ll say a Hail Mary for you.... I’ll say a Hail Mary for you, pa, if you don’t beat me.... I’ll say a Hail Mary....’
“噢，爸爸！”他喊道。 ‘别打我，爸！我会...我会为你说一声万福玛丽...我会为你说一声万福玛丽，爸爸，如果你不打败我的话....我会为你说一声万福玛丽....'

Clay
黏土

THE matron had given her leave to go out as soon as the women’s tea was over and Maria looked forward to her evening out. The kitchen was spick and span: the cook said you could see yourself in the big copper boilers. The fire was nice and bright and on one of the side-tables were four very big barmbracks. These barmbracks seemed uncut; but if you went closer you would see that they had been cut into long thick even slices and were ready to be handed round at tea. Maria had cut them herself.
女士们的茶一结束，女护士就准许她出去，玛丽亚期待着晚上的外出。厨房干净整洁：厨师说你可以看到自己在大铜锅炉里。炉火又旺又亮，其中一张边桌上放着四个很大的木架。这些船舷似乎没有经过切割；但如果你走近一点，你会发现它们被切成又长又厚的均匀切片，准备在喝茶时递给大家。玛丽亚亲自剪了它们。

Maria was a very, very small person indeed but she had a very long nose and a very long chin. She talked a little through her nose, always soothingly: ‘Yes, my dear,’ and ‘No, my dear.’ She was always sent for when the women quarrelled Over their tubs and always succeeded in making peace. One day the matron had said to her:
玛丽亚确实是一个非常非常小的人，但她有一个很长的鼻子和一个很长的下巴。她用鼻子说话，总是安慰人：“是的，亲爱的”和“不，亲爱的。”当女人们为浴缸争吵时，她总是被叫来，并且总是成功地讲和。有一天，女护士长对她说：

‘Maria, you are a veritable peace-maker!’
“玛丽亚，你是名副其实的和平缔造者！”

And the sub-matron and two of the Board ladies had heard the compliment. And Ginger Mooney was always saying what she wouldn’t do to the dummy who had charge of the irons if it wasn’t for Maria. Everyone was so fond of Maria.
副护士长和两位董事会女士也听到了这番称赞。金杰·穆尼总是说，如果不是玛丽亚，她不会对负责铁杆的假人做什么。每个人都非常喜欢玛丽亚。

The women would have their tea at six o’clock and she would be able to get away before seven. From Ballsbridge to the Pillar, twenty minutes; from the Pillar to Drumcondra, twenty minutes; and twenty minutes to buy the things. She would be there before eight. She took out her purse with the silver clasps and read again the words A Present from Belfast. She was very fond of that purse because Joe had brought it to her five years before when he and Alphy had gone to Belfast on a Whit-Monday trip. In the purse were two half-crowns and some coppers. She would have five shillings clear after paying tram fare. What a nice evening they would have, all the children singing! Only she hoped that Joe wouldn’t come in drunk. He was so different when he took any drink.
女人们六点钟喝茶，她七点前就能离开。从 Ballsbridge 到 Pillar，二十分钟；从 Pillar 到 Drumcondra，二十分钟；二十分钟就可以买东西了。她会在八点之前到达那里。她拿出带有银扣的钱包，又读了一遍“贝尔法斯特的礼物”这几个字。她非常喜欢那个钱包，因为五年前，当他和阿尔菲去贝尔法斯特参加圣灵降临节旅行时，乔把它送给了她。钱包里有两个半克朗和一些铜币。支付电车车费后，她就可以剩下五先令了。他们会度过一个多么美好的夜晚，所有的孩子都在唱歌！只是她希望乔不要喝醉了进来。当他喝任何饮料时，他都是如此不同。

Often he had wanted her to go and live with them;-but she would have felt herself in the way (though Joe’s wife was ever so nice with her) and she had become accustomed to the life of the laundry. Joe was a good fellow. She had nursed him and Alphy too; and Joe used often say:
他经常希望她去和他们住在一起；但她会觉得自己很碍事（尽管乔的妻子对她很好），而且她已经习惯了洗衣店的生活。乔是个好人。她也照顾过他和阿尔菲。乔经常说：

‘Mamma is mamma but Maria is my proper mother.’
“妈妈就是妈妈，但玛丽亚才是我真正的母亲。”

After the break-up at home the boys had got her that position in the Dublin by Lamplight laundry, and she liked it. She used to have such a bad opinion of Protestants but now she thought they were very nice people, a little quiet and serious, but still very nice people to live with. Then she had her plants in the conservatory and she liked looking after them. She had lovely ferns and wax-plants and, whenever anyone came to visit her, she always gave the visitor one or two slips from her conservatory. There was one thing she didn’t like and that was the tracts on the walks; but the matron was such a nice person to deal with, so genteel.
在家分手后，男孩们给她在都柏林灯光洗衣店找到了那个职位，她很喜欢。她以前对新教徒的看法很不好，但现在她认为他们是非常好的人，有点安静和严肃，但仍然是非常好的人。然后她把自己的植物放在温室里，她喜欢照顾它们。她有可爱的蕨类植物和蜡树，每当有人来看望她时，她总是给来访者一两张她温室里的纸条。她不喜欢一件事，那就是人行道上的小册子。但女主人是个很好相处的人，很有礼貌。

When the cook told her everything was ready she went into the women’s room and began to pull the big bell. In a few minutes the women began to come in by twos and threes, wiping their steaming hands in their petticoats and pulling down the sleeves of their blouses over their red steaming arms. They settled down before their huge mugs which the cook and the dummy filled up with hot tea, already mixed with milk and sugar in huge tin cans. Maria superintended the distribution of the barmbrack and saw that every woman got her four slices. There was a great deal of laughing and joking during the meal. Lizzie Fleming said Maria was sure to get the ring and, though Fleming had said that for so many Hallow Eves, Maria had to laugh and say she didn’t want any ring or man either; and when she laughed her grey-green eyes sparkled with disappointed shyness and the tip of her nose nearly met the tip of her chin. Then Ginger Mooney lifted her mug of tea and proposed Maria’s health while all the other women clattered with their mugs on the table, and said she was sorry she hadn’t a sup of porter to drink it in. And Maria laughed again till the tip of her nose nearly met the tip of her chin and till her minute body nearly shook itself asunder because she knew that Mooney meant well though, of course, she had the notions of a common woman.
当厨师告诉她一切都准备好了时，她走进女厕所，开始拉大铃。几分钟后，女人们三三两两地进来了，她们用衬裙擦着冒着热气的手，把衬衫的袖子拉下来盖住她们冒着热气的红胳膊。他们在大杯子前坐下，厨师和假人在大杯子里装满了热茶，茶已经在大锡罐里与牛奶和糖混合在一起。玛丽亚负责监督面包的分发，发现每个女人都得到了四片。用餐过程中充满了欢声笑语。莉齐·弗莱明说玛丽亚一定会得到戒指，尽管弗莱明说过这么多的万圣节前夕，玛丽亚不得不笑着说她也不想要任何戒指或男人；当她笑的时候，灰绿色的眼睛里闪烁着失望的羞涩，鼻尖几乎碰到了下巴尖。然后金杰·穆尼举起她的茶杯，向玛丽亚的健康表示祝贺，而其他女人则把杯子放在桌子上，叮当作响，并说她很抱歉没有喝上一杯黑啤酒。玛丽亚又笑到了最后。她的鼻子几乎碰到了她的下巴尖，直到她那娇小的身体几乎被震得四分五裂，因为她知道穆尼的本意是好的，当然，她有一个普通女人的观念。

But wasn’t Maria glad when the women had finished their tea and the cook and the dummy had begun to clear away the teathings! She went into her little bedroom and, remembering that the next morning was a mass morning, changed the hand of the alarm from seven to six. Then she took off her working skirt and her house-boots and laid her best skirt out on the bed and her tiny dress-boots beside the foot of the bed. She changed her blouse too and, as she stood before the mirror, she thought of how she used to dress for mass on Sunday morning when she was a young girl; and she looked with quaint affection at the diminutive body which she had so often adorned, In spite of its years she found it a nice tidy little body.
但是，当女人们喝完茶，厨师和假人开始收拾东西时，玛丽亚不是很高兴吗？她走进她的小卧室，想起第二天早上是一个弥撒早晨，就把闹钟的指针从七点改为六点。然后她脱掉工作裙和家居靴，把最好的裙子放在床上，把小礼服靴放在床脚边。她也换了衬衫，当她站在镜子前时，她想起了当她还是个小女孩的时候，周日早上她是如何穿着去参加弥撒的；她怀着一种古怪的感情看着她经常装饰的娇小的身体，尽管已经有很多年了，但她发现它是一个漂亮整洁的小身体。

When she got outside the streets were shining with rain and she was glad of her old brown waterproof. The tram was full and she had to sit on the little stool at the end of the car, facing all the people, with her toes barely touching the floor. She arranged in her mind all she was going to do and thought how much better it was to be independent and to have your own money in your pocket. She hoped they would have a nice evening. She was sure they would but she could not help thinking what a pity it was Alphy and Joe were not speaking. They were always falling out now but when they were boys together they used to be the best of friends: but such was life.
当她走到外面时，街道上被雨淋湿了，她很高兴她的旧棕色防水衣。电车已经满了，她只能坐在车尾的小凳子上，面向所有人，脚趾几乎不沾地。她在心里安排好了自己要做的一切，想着独立一点、口袋里有自己的钱该多好。她希望他们能度过一个愉快的夜晚。她确信他们会的，但她忍不住想，阿尔菲和乔没有说话真是太遗憾了。他们现在总是吵架，但当他们还是孩子的时候，他们曾经是最好的朋友：但这就是生活。

She got out of her tram at the Pillar and ferreted her way quickly among the crowds. She went into Downes’s cake-shop but the shop was so full of people that it was a long time before she could get herself attended to. She bought a dozen of mixed penny cakes, and at last came out of the shop laden with a big bag. Then she thought what else would she buy: she wanted to buy something really nice. They would be sure to have plenty of apples and nuts. It was hard to know what to buy and all she could think of was cake. She decided to buy some plumcake but Downes’s plumcake had not enough almond icing on top of it so she went over to a shop in Henry Street. Here she was a long time in suiting herself and the stylish young lady behind the counter, who was evidently a little annoyed by her, asked her was it wedding-cake she wanted to buy. That made Maria blush and smile at the young lady; but the young lady took it all very seriously and finally cut a thick slice of plumcake, parcelled it up and said:
她在支柱站下了电车，在人群中快速摸索着。她走进唐斯的蛋糕店，但店里挤满了人，过了很长时间才有人照顾她。她买了十几块混合便士蛋糕，最后拎着一个大袋子从店里出来。然后她想她还要买什么：她想买一些非常好的东西。他们肯定会有大量的苹果和坚果。很难知道该买什么，她只想到蛋糕。她决定买一些李子蛋糕，但唐斯的李子蛋糕上面没有足够的杏仁糖霜，所以她去了亨利街的一家商店。她在这里试穿了很长时间，柜台后面那位时尚的年轻女士显然对她有点恼火，问她是想买结婚蛋糕吗？这让玛丽亚脸红了，对这位年轻女士微笑。但小姐却很认真地对待这一切，最后切了一块厚厚的李子蛋糕，包起来说道：

‘Two-and-four, please.’
“请二加四。”

She thought she would have to stand in the Drumcondra tram because none of the young men seemed to notice her but an elderly gentleman made room for her. He was a stout gentleman and he wore a brown hard hat; he had a square red face and a greyish moustache. Maria thought he was a colonel-looking gentleman and she reflected how much more polite he was than the young men who simply stared straight before them. The gentleman began to chat with her about Hallow Eve and the rainy weather. He supposed the bag was full of good things for the little ones and said it was only right that the youngsters should enjoy themselves while they were young. Maria agreed with him and favoured him with demure nods and hems. He was very nice with her, and when she was getting out at the Canal Bridge she thanked him and bowed, and he bowed to her and raised his hat and smiled agreeably, and while she was going up along the terrace, bending her tiny head under the rain, she thought how easy it was to know a gentleman even when he has a drop taken.
她认为她必须站在德拉姆康德拉电车里，因为似乎没有一个年轻人注意到她，但一位年长的绅士为她腾出了位置。他是一位身材魁梧的绅士，戴着一顶棕色安全帽。他有一张红色的方脸和灰色的小胡子。玛丽亚认为他是一位上校模样的绅士，她觉得他比那些只是直视前方的年轻人更有礼貌。那位绅士开始和她谈论万圣节前夕和下雨的天气。他认为袋子里装满了对小孩子们来说很好的东西，并说孩子们应该在年轻的时候尽情享受，这是理所当然的。玛丽亚同意他的观点，并以端庄的点头和下摆向他表示支持。他对她很好，当她在运河桥下车时，她向他致谢并鞠躬，他向她鞠躬，举起帽子，愉快地微笑，而当她沿着露台走上时，低下她的小头雨下，她想，认识一个绅士是多么容易，即使他沾了一点水。

Everybody said: ‘0, here’s Maria!’ when she came to Joe’s house. Joe was there, having come home from business, and all the children had their Sunday dresses on. There were two big girls in from next door and games were going on. Maria gave the bag of cakes to the eldest boy, Alphy, to divide and Mrs. Donnelly said it was too good of her to bring such a big bag of cakes and made all the children say:
当玛丽亚来到乔家时，每个人都说：“0，这是玛丽亚！”乔在那里，刚下班回家，所有的孩子都穿上了周日的衣服。隔壁有两个大女孩进来，比赛正在进行。玛丽亚把那袋蛋糕交给了最大的男孩阿尔菲来分，唐纳利夫人说她太好了，能带这么大一袋蛋糕，让所有的孩子都说：

‘Thanks, Maria.’
“谢谢，玛丽亚。”

But Maria said she had brought something special for papa and mamma, something they would be sure to like, and she began to look for her plumcake. She tried in Downes’s bag and then in the pockets of her waterproof and then on the hallstand but nowhere could she find it. Then she asked all the children had any of them eaten it—by mistake, of course—but the children all said no and looked as if they did not like to eat cakes if they were to be accused of stealing. Everybody had a solution for the mystery and Mrs. Donnelly said it was plain that Maria had left it behind her in the tram. Maria, remembering how confused the gentleman with the greyish moustache had made her, coloured with shame and vexation and disappointment. At the thought of the failure of her little surprise and of the two and fourpence she had thrown away for nothing she nearly cried outright.
但玛丽亚说她给爸爸和妈妈带来了一些特别的东西，他们一定会喜欢的东西，然后她开始寻找她的李子蛋糕。她在唐斯的包里、防水衣的口袋里、衣帽架上都试了试，但都找不到它。然后她问所有的孩子有没有吃过蛋糕——当然是吃错了——但孩子们都说没有，而且如果被指控偷窃，他们看起来好像不喜欢吃蛋糕。每个人都有一个解开这个谜团的办法，唐纳利夫人说很明显玛丽亚把它留在了电车里。玛丽亚想起那位留着灰白胡子的绅士让她感到多么困惑，脸上满是羞愧、烦恼和失望。一想到她的小惊喜失败了，想到她白白扔掉的两先令四便士，她几乎要哭了。

But Joe said it didn’t matter and made her sit down by the fire. He was very nice with her. He told her all that went on in his office, repeating for her a smart answer which he had made to the manager. Maria did not understand why Joe laughed so much over the answer he had made but she said that the manager must have been a very overbearing person to deal with. Joe said he wasn’t so bad when you knew how to take him, that he was a decent sort so long as you didn’t rub him the wrong way. Mrs. Donnelly played the piano for the children and they danced and sang. Then the two next-door girls handed round the nuts. Nobody could find the nutcrackers and Joe was nearly getting cross over it and asked how did they expect Maria to crack nuts without a nutcracker. But Maria said she didn’t like nuts and that they weren’t to bother about her. Then Joe asked would she take a bottle of stout and Mrs. Donnelly said there was port wine too in the house if she would prefer that. Maria said she would rather they didn’t ask her to take anything: but Joe insisted.
但乔说没关系，并让她坐在火边。他对她很好。他告诉她办公室里发生的一切，并为她重复了他对经理做出的明智回答。玛丽亚不明白为什么乔对他的回答笑得这么厉害，但她说经理一定是一个非常霸道的人。乔说，当你知道如何对待他时，他并没有那么糟糕，只要你不以错误的方式对待他，他就是一个正派的人。唐纳利夫人为孩子们弹钢琴，他们又唱又跳。然后隔壁的两个女孩把坚果递过来。没有人能找到胡桃夹子，乔几乎生气了，他问他们怎么能指望玛丽亚在没有胡桃夹子的情况下敲开坚果。但玛丽亚说她不喜欢坚果，他们不会打扰她。然后乔问她要不要喝一瓶黑啤酒，唐纳利夫人说如果她愿意的话，家里还有波特酒。玛丽亚说她宁愿他们不要求她拿任何东西：但乔坚持要拿。

So Maria let him have his way and they sat by the fire talking over old times and Maria thought she would put in a good word for Alphy. But Joe cried that God might strike him stone dead if ever he spoke a word to his brother again and Maria said she was sorry she had mentioned the matter. Mrs. Donnelly told her husband it was a great shame for him to speak that way of his own flesh and blood but Joe said that Alphy was no brother of his and there was nearly being a row on the head of it. But Joe said he would not lose his temper on account of the night it was and asked his wife to open some more stout. The two next-door girls had arranged some Hallow Eve games and soon everything was merry again. Maria was delighted to see the children so merry and Joe and his wife in such good spirits. The next-door girls put some saucers on the table and then led the children up to the table, blindfold. One got the prayer-book and the other three got the water; and when one of the next-door girls got the ring Mrs. Donnelly shook her finger at the blushing girl as much as to say: 0, I know all about it! They insisted then on blindfolding Maria and leading her up to the table to see what she would get; and, while they were putting on the bandage, Maria laughed and laughed again till the tip of her nose nearly met the tip of her chin.
于是玛丽亚让他随心所欲，他们坐在火边谈论过去的时光，玛丽亚认为她会为阿尔菲说几句好话。但乔哭着说，如果他再和他哥哥说话，上帝可能会把他打死，玛丽亚说她很抱歉提到这件事。唐纳利夫人告诉她的丈夫，他用自己的亲骨肉这样说话是一种极大的耻辱，但乔说阿尔菲不是他的兄弟，这几乎是一场争吵。但乔说他不会因为是晚上而发脾气，并让妻子再开一些黑啤酒。隔壁的两个女孩安排了一些万圣节前夕的游戏，很快一切又恢复了欢乐。玛丽亚很高兴看到孩子们如此快乐，乔和他的妻子精神如此好。隔壁的女孩们在桌子上放了一些碟子，然后带着孩子们蒙着眼睛走到桌子旁。一个拿到了祈祷书，另外三个拿到了水。当隔壁的一个女孩拿到戒指时，唐纳利夫人对着脸红的女孩摇了摇手指，仿佛在说：0，我都知道了！然后他们坚持蒙住玛丽亚的眼睛，把她带到桌子旁，看看她会得到什么。当他们包扎绷带时，玛丽亚笑了又笑，直到她的鼻尖几乎碰到了下巴尖。

They led her up to the table amid laughing and joking and she put her hand out in the air as she was told to do. She moved her hand about here and there in the air and descended on one of the saucers. She felt a soft wet substance with her fingers and was surprised that nobody spoke or took off her bandage. There was a pause for a few seconds; and then a great deal of scuffling and whispering. Somebody said something about the garden, and at last Mrs. Donnelly said something very cross to one of the next-door girls and told her to throw it out at once: that was no play. Maria understood that it was wrong that time and so she had to do it over again: and this time she got the prayer-book.
他们在欢声笑语中把她领到桌子旁，她按照指示把手伸到了空中。她的手在空中左右移动，落在其中一个碟子上。她用手指感觉到一种柔软湿润的物质，惊讶地发现没有人说话或解开她的绷带。停顿了几秒钟。然后是大量的扭打和窃窃私语。有人说了一些关于花园的事情，最后唐纳利夫人对隔壁的一个女孩说了一些非常生气的话，并告诉她立即把它扔掉：这不是玩笑。玛丽亚明白那次是错误的，所以她必须重来一遍：这次她得到了祈祷书。

After that Mrs. Donnelly played Miss McCloud’s Reel for the children and Joe made Maria take a glass of wine. Soon they were all quite merry again and Mrs. Donnelly said Maria would enter a convent before the year was out because she had got the prayer-book. Maria had never seen Joe so nice to her as he was that night, so full of pleasant talk and reminiscences. She said they were all very good to her.
之后，唐纳利夫人为孩子们演奏了麦克劳德小姐的《Reel》，乔让玛丽亚喝了一杯酒。很快，他们又恢复了愉快的心情，唐纳利夫人说玛丽亚会在年底之前进入修道院，因为她已经拿到了祈祷书。那天晚上，玛丽亚从来没有见过乔对她这么好，充满了愉快的谈话和回忆。她说他们都对她很好。

At last the children grew tired and sleepy and Joe asked Maria would she not sing some little song before she went, one of the old songs. Mrs. Donnelly said ‘Do, please, Maria!’ and so Maria had to get up and stand beside the piano. Mrs. Donnelly bade the children be quiet and listen to Maria’s song. Then she played the prelude and said ‘Now, Maria!’ and Maria, blushing very much began to sing in a tiny quavering voice. She sang I Dreamt that I Dwelt, and when she came to the second verse she sang again:
最后，孩子们变得又累又困，乔问玛丽亚在走之前她能不能唱一首小歌，一首老歌。唐纳利夫人说：“请这样做，玛丽亚！”于是玛丽亚不得不站起来，站在钢琴旁边。唐纳利夫人让孩子们安静，听玛丽亚的歌。然后她演奏了前奏并说：“现在，玛丽亚！”玛丽亚脸红了，开始用微弱的颤抖的声音唱歌。她唱了《我梦见我居住》，当她唱到第二节时，她又唱道：

I dreamt that I dwelt in marble halls
我梦见我住在大理石大厅里

  With vassals and serfs at my side,
有封臣和农奴在我身边，

And of all who assembled within those walls
以及所有聚集在这些墙内的人

  That I was the hope and the pride.
我是希望和骄傲。


I had riches too great to count; could boast
我的财富多得数不胜数；可以夸口

  Of a high ancestral name,
有着崇高的祖名，

But I also dreamt, which pleased me most,
但我也梦想着，这让我最高兴，

 That you loved me still the same.
你还是一如既往地爱着我。

But no one tried to show her her mistake; and when she had ended her song Joe was very much moved. He said that there was no time like the long ago and no music for him like poor old Balfe, whatever other people might say; and his eyes filled up so much with tears that he could not find what he was looking for and in the end he had to ask his wife to tell him where the corkscrew was.
但没有人试图向她表明她的错误；当她唱完歌后，乔非常感动。他说，无论其他人怎么说，对他来说，没有像很久以前那样的时代，也没有像可怜的老巴尔夫那样的音乐。他的眼睛里充满了泪水，以至于他找不到他要找的东西，最后他不得不让他的妻子告诉他开瓶器在哪里。

A Painful Case
一个痛苦的案例

MR. JAMES DUFFY lived in Chapelizod because he wished to live as far as possible from the city of which he was a citizen and because he found all the other suburbs of Dublin mean, modern and pretentious. He lived in an old sombre house and from his windows he could look into the disused distillery or upwards along the shallow river on which Dublin is built. The lofty walls of his uncarpeted room were free from pictures. He had himself bought every article of furniture in the room: a black iron bedstead, an iron washstand, four cane chairs, a clothesrack, a coal-scuttle, a fender and irons and a square table on which lay a double desk. A bookcase had been made in an alcove by means of shelves of white wood. The bed was clothed with white bedclothes and a black and scarlet rug covered the foot. A little hand-mirror hung above the washstand and during the day a white-shaded lamp stood as the sole ornament of the mantelpiece. The books on the white wooden shelves were arranged from below upwards according to bulk. A complete Wordsworth stood at one end of the lowest shelf and a copy of the Maynooth Catechism, sewn into the cloth cover of a notebook, stood at one end of the top shelf. Writing materials were always on the desk. In the desk lay a manuscript translation of Hauptmann’s Michael Kramer, the stage directions of which were written in purple ink, and a little sheaf of papers held together by a brass pin. In these sheets a sentence was inscribed from time to time and, in an ironical moment, the headline of an advertisement for Bile Beans had been pasted on to the first sheet. On lifting the lid of the desk a faint fragrance escaped—the fragrance of new cedarwood pencils or of a bottle of gum or of an overripe apple which might have been left there and forgotten.
先生。詹姆斯·达菲 (JAMES DUFFY) 住在查佩利佐德 (Chapelizod)，因为他希望住得离他所在的城市尽可能远，而且他发现都柏林的所有其他郊区都很卑鄙、现代和自命不凡。他住在一栋昏暗的老房子里，从窗户里他可以看到废弃的酿酒厂，也可以沿着都柏林所在的浅河向上眺望。他的房间没有铺地毯，高高的墙壁上没有挂画。房间里的每一件家具都是他自己买的：一个黑铁床架、一个铁盥洗台、四把藤椅、一个衣架、一个煤斗、一个挡泥板和熨斗，还有一张方桌，上面放着一张双人书桌。壁龛里用白木架子搭建了一个书柜。床上铺着白色的床单，脚上铺着黑红色的地毯。盥洗台上方挂着一面小镜子，白天，一盏白色灯罩的灯是壁炉架上唯一的装饰品。白色木架上的书籍按照体积从下往上排列。最底层的书架一端放着一本完整的华兹华斯著作，最上面一层书架的一端放着一本被缝在笔记本布封面上的《梅努斯教义问答》。书桌上总是放着书写材料。桌子上放着豪普特曼的《迈克尔·克莱默》的手稿翻译，其中的舞台说明是用紫色墨水写成的，还有一小捆用黄铜别针固定在一起的文件。这些纸上时不时地写着一句话，讽刺的是，胆豆广告的标题被贴到了第一张纸上。打开书桌盖子，一股淡淡的香味扑鼻而来——新雪松铅笔的香味，一瓶口香糖的香味，或者可能被遗忘在那里的烂熟苹果的香味。

Mr. Duffy abhorred anything which betokened physical or mental disorder. A medival doctor would have called him saturnine. His face, which carried the entire tale of his years, was of the brown tint of Dublin streets. On his long and rather large head grew dry black hair and a tawny moustache did not quite cover an unamiable mouth. His cheekbones also gave his face a harsh character; but there was no harshness in the eyes which, looking at the world from under their tawny eyebrows, gave the impression of a man ever alert to greet a redeeming instinct in others but often disappointed. He lived at a little distance from his body, regarding his own acts with doubtful side-glasses. He had an odd autobiographical habit which led him to compose in his mind from time to time a short sentence about himself containing a subject in the third person and a predicate in the past tense. He never gave alms to beggars and walked firmly, carrying a stout hazel.
达菲先生厌恶任何表明身体或精神紊乱的事物。中世纪的医生会称他为阴郁的。他的脸呈现出都柏林街道的棕色，承载了他整个岁月的故事。他又长又大的脑袋上长着干燥的黑发，黄褐色的小胡子并没有完全遮住一张不友善的嘴。他的颧骨也让他的脸显得严厉。但是，从黄褐色眉毛下看世界的眼睛里却没有任何严厉，给人的印象是一个时刻警惕地迎接别人救赎本能的人，但常常感到失望。他与自己的身体保持着一定的距离，用怀疑的眼光审视着自己的行为。他有一个奇怪的自传习惯，这使他时不时地在脑海中写出一个关于自己的简短句子，其中包含第三人称主语和过去时谓语。他从不施舍给乞丐，走路时背着一棵粗壮的榛树，步伐坚定。

He had been for many years cashier of a private bank in Baggot Street. Every morning he came in from Chapelizod by tram. At midday he went to Dan Burke’s and took his lunch—a bottle of lager beer and a small trayful of arrowroot biscuits. At four o’clock he was set free. He dined in an eating-house in George’s Street where he felt himself safe from the society o Dublin’s gilded youth and where there was a certain plain honesty in the bill of fare. His evenings were spent either before his landlady’s piano or roaming about the outskirts of the city. His liking for Mozart’s music brought him sometimes to an opera or a concert: these were the only dissipations of his life.
他多年来一直在巴格特街一家私人银行担任出纳员。每天早上他都乘坐电车从查佩利佐德过来。中午，他去丹·伯克家吃了午餐——一瓶啤酒和一小盘葛根饼干。四点钟，他被释放了。他在乔治街的一家餐馆用餐，在那里他觉得自己远离了都柏林镀金青年的社会，而且那里的菜单上有一定的诚实。他的夜晚要么在女房东的钢琴前度过，要么在城郊漫步。他对莫扎特音乐的喜爱有时会让他去看歌剧或音乐会：这是他一生中唯一的消遣。

He had neither companions nor friends, church nor creed. He lived his spiritual life without any communion with others, visiting his relatives at Christmas and escorting them to the cemetery when they died. He performed these two social duties for old dignity’s sake but conceded nothing further to the conventions which regulate the civic life. He allowed himself to think that in certain circumstances he would rob his hank but, as these circumstances never arose, his life rolled out evenly—an adventureless tale.
他既没有同伴，也没有朋友，没有教堂，也没有信条。他过着与他人没有任何交流的精神生活，在圣诞节拜访他的亲戚，并在他们去世时护送他们到墓地。他为了古老的尊严履行了这两项社会义务，但没有对规范公民生活的惯例做出进一步的让步。他允许自己认为在某些情况下他会抢劫自己的钱财，但由于这些情况从未发生过，他的生活平稳地展开——一个没有冒险的故事。

One evening he found himself sitting beside two ladies in the Rotunda. The house, thinly peopled and silent, gave distressing prophecy of failure. The lady who sat next him looked round at the deserted house once or twice and then said:
一天晚上，他发现自己坐在圆形大厅里的两位女士旁边。房子里人烟稀少，一片寂静，预示着令人痛苦的失败。坐在他旁边的女士环视了那间空荡荡的房子一两眼，然后说道：

‘What a pity there is such a poor house tonight! It’s so hard on people to have to sing to empty benches.’
‘可惜今晚的房子这么破！人们不得不对着空荡荡的长凳唱歌真是太难了。

He took the remark as an invitation to talk. He was surprised that she seemed so little awkward. While they talked he tried to fix her permanently in his memory. When he learned that the young girl beside her was her daughter he judged her to be a year or so younger than himself. Her face, which must have been handsome, had remained intelligent. It was an oval face with strongly marked features. The eyes were very dark blue and steady. Their gaze began with a defiant note but was confused by what seemed a deliberate swoon of the pupil into the iris, revealing for an instant a temperament of great sensibility. The pupil reasserted itself quickly, this halfdisclosed nature fell again under the reign of prudence, and her astrakhan jacket, moulding a bosom of a certain fullness, struck the note of defiance more definitely.
他将这句话视为谈话的邀请。他很惊讶她看起来这么不尴尬。当他们交谈时，他试图将她永久地固定在他的记忆中。当他得知身边的少女是她的女儿时，他判断她比自己小一岁左右。她的脸一定很英俊，但仍然很聪明。那是一张椭圆形的脸，五官很明显。眼睛是深蓝色的，很稳定。他们的目光一开始带有挑衅的意味，但很快就被瞳孔故意晕倒在虹膜中的感觉所迷惑，瞬间流露出一种高度敏感的气质。学生很快就恢复了活力，这种半公开的本性再次受到了谨慎的控制，她的阿斯特拉罕夹克塑造了一定丰满的胸部，更加明确地发出了反抗的气息。

He met her again a few weeks afterwards at a concert in Earlsfort Terrace and seized the moments when her daughter’s attention was diverted to become intimate. She alluded once or twice to her husband but her tone was not such as to make the allusion a warning. Her name was Mrs. Sinico. Her husband’s great-great-grandfather had come from Leghorn. Her husband was captain of a mercantile boat plying between Dublin and Holland; and they had one child.
几周后，他在厄尔斯福特台的一场音乐会上再次见到了她，并抓住了她女儿注意力分散的时刻，变得亲密起来。她曾一两次提到过她的丈夫，但她的语气并不意味着这种暗示是一种警告。她的名字叫西尼科夫人。她丈夫的曾曾祖父来自里窝那。她的丈夫是一艘往返于都柏林和荷兰之间的商船的船长。他们有一个孩子。

Meeting her a third time by accident he found courage to make an appointment. She came. This was the first of many meetings; they met always in the evening and chose the most quiet quarters for their walks together. Mr. Duffy, however, had a distaste for underhand ways and, finding that they were compelled to meet stealthily, he forced her to ask him to her house. Captain Sinico encouraged his visits, thinking that his daughter’s hand was in question. He had dismissed his wife so sincerely from his gallery of pleasures that he did not suspect that anyone else would take an interest in her. As the husband was often away and the daughter out giving music lessons Mr. Duffy had many opportunities of enjoying the lady’s society. Neither he nor she had had any such adventure before and neither was conscious of any incongruity. Little by little he entangled his thoughts with hers. He lent her books, provided her with ideas, shared his intellectual life with her. She listened to all.
第三次偶然遇见她，他鼓起勇气预约了。她来了。这是许多次会议中的第一次。他们总是在晚上见面，并选择最安静的地方一起散步。然而，达菲先生厌恶卑鄙的手​​段，发现他们不得不偷偷地见面，他强迫她邀请他去她家。西尼科船长认为他女儿的手有问题，因此鼓励他来访。他如此真诚地把他的妻子从他的快乐画廊中解雇了，以至于他不怀疑其他人会对她感兴趣。由于丈夫经常外出，女儿外出上音乐课，达菲先生有很多机会与这位女士交往。他和她以前都没有经历过这样的冒险，也没有意识到有什么不协调。渐渐地，他的想法和她的想法纠缠在一起。他借给她书籍，为她提供想法，与她分享他的知识生活。她听了所有人的意见。

Sometimes in return for his theories she gave out some fact of her own life. With almost maternal solicitude she urged him to let his nature open to the full: she became his confessor. He told her that for some time he had assisted at the meetings of an Irish Socialist Party where he had felt himself a unique figure amidst a score of sober workmen in a garret lit by an inefficient oil-lamp. When the party had divided into three sections, each under its own leader and in its own garret, he had discontinued his attendances. The workmen’s discussions, he said, were too timorous; the interest they took in the question of wages was inordinate. He felt that they were hard-featured realists and that they resented an exactitude which was the produce of a leisure not within their reach. No social revolution, he told her, would be likely to strike Dublin for some centuries.
有时，作为对他的理论的回报，她会说出自己生活中的一些事实。她带着近乎母亲般的关怀，敦促他充分释放自己的本性：她成为了他的忏悔神父。他告诉她，有一段时间，他曾在爱尔兰社会党的会议上提供协助，在那里，他觉得自己是一个独特的人物，在阁楼上，在一盏低效油灯的照明下，有二十名清醒的工人。当队伍分成三个部分，每个部分都有自己的领导并在自己的阁楼里时，他就停止了出席。他说，工人们的讨论太胆怯了。他们对工资问题表现出过分的兴趣。他觉得他们是强硬的现实主义者，他们讨厌一种精确性，这种精确性是他们无法承受的闲暇的产物。他告诉她，在都柏林几个世纪内都不可能发生社会革命。

She asked him why did he not write out his thoughts. For what, he asked her, with careful scorn. To compete with phrasemongers, incapable of thinking consecutively for sixty seconds? To submit himself to the criticisms of an obtuse middle class which entrusted its morality to policemen and its fine arts to impresarios?
她问他为什么不写下自己的想法。为了什么，他小心翼翼地轻蔑地问她。与空谈者竞争，无法连续思考六十秒？屈服于愚钝的中产阶级的批评，他们把道德托付给警察，把艺术托付给表演者？

He went often to her little cottage outside Dublin; often they spent their evenings alone. Little by little, as their thoughts entangled, they spoke of subjects less remote. Her companionship was like a warm soil about an exotic. Many times she allowed the dark to fall upon them, refraining from lighting the lamp. The dark discreet room, their isolation, the music that still vibrated in their ears united them. This union exalted him, wore away the rough edges of his character, emotionalised his mental life. Sometimes he caught himself listening to the sound of his own voice. He thought that in her eyes he would ascend to an angelical stature; and, as he attached the fervent nature of his companion more and more closely to him, he heard the strange impersonal voice which he recognised as his own, insisting on the soul’s incurable loneliness. We cannot give ourselves, it said: we are our own. The end of these discourses was that one night during which she had shown every sign of unusual excitement, Mrs. Sinico caught up his hand passionately and pressed it to her cheek.
他经常去她都柏林郊外的小屋。他们常常独自度过夜晚。当他们的思绪纠缠在一起时，他们渐渐地谈到了不太遥远的话题。她的陪伴就像异域风情的温暖土壤。很多次她让黑暗降临在他们身上，却没有点灯。黑暗而隐蔽的房间，他们的孤独，耳边仍然回响的音乐将他们团结在一起。这种结合提升了他的地位，磨掉了他性格中的粗糙棱角，使他的精神生活充满了情感。有时他发现自己在听自己的声音。他以为在她眼中他会提升到天使般的高度；当他越来越亲近同伴的热情时，他听到了奇怪的、客观的声音，他认出那是他自己的声音，坚持灵魂无法治愈的孤独。我们不能奉献自己，它说：我们是我们自己的。这些谈话结束时，有一天晚上，西尼科夫人表现出了异常兴奋的迹象，她热情地抓住他的手，按在自己的脸颊上。

Mr. Duffy was very much surprised. Her interpretation of his words disillusioned him. He did not visit her for a week, then he wrote to her asking her to meet him. As he did not wish their last interview to be troubled by the influence of their ruined confessional they meet in a little cakeshop near the Parkgate. It was cold autumn weather but in spite of the cold they wandered up and down the roads of the Park for nearly three hours. They agreed to break off their intercourse: every bond, he said, is a bond to sorrow. When they came out of the Park they walked in silence towards the tram; but here she began to tremble so violently that, fearing another collapse on her part, he bade her good-bye quickly and left her. A few days later he received a parcel containing his books and music.
达菲先生非常惊讶。她对他的话的解释使他失望了。他有一个星期没有去看望她，然后他写信给她，邀请她来见他。由于他不希望他们的最后一次采访受到他们被毁的忏悔室的影响的困扰，他们在公园门附近的一家小蛋糕店见面。秋天的天气很冷，但他们不顾寒冷，在公园的道路上来回徘徊了近三个小时。他们同意断绝交往：他说，每一条纽带都是一条悲伤的纽带。当他们走出公园时，他们默默地朝电车走去。但此时她开始剧烈颤抖，他担心她会再次崩溃，于是很快就与她告别并离开了她。几天后，他收到了一个包裹，里面装着他的书籍和音乐。

Four years passed. Mr. Duffy returned to his even way of life. His room still bore witness of the orderliness of his mind. Some new pieces of music encumbered the music-stand in the lower room and on his shelves stood two volumes by Nietzsche: Thus Spake Zarathustra and The Gay Science. He wrote seldom in the sheaf of papers which lay in his desk. One of his sentences, written two months after his last interview with Mrs. Sinico, read: Love between man and man is impossible because there must not be sexual intercourse and friendship between man and woman is impossible because there must be sexual intercourse. He kept away from concerts lest he should meet her. His father died; the junior partner of the bank retired. And still every morning he went into the city by tram and every evening walked home from the city after having dined moderately in George’s Street and read the evening paper for dessert.
四年过去了。达菲先生又恢复了他平静的生活方式。他的房间仍然见证着他头脑的井然有序。楼下房间的乐谱架上放着一些新的音乐作品，书架上放着尼采的两本书：《查拉图斯特拉如是说》和《快乐的科学》。他很少在办公桌上的一叠文件上写东西。他最后一次采访西尼科夫人两个月后写下的一句话是：男人和男人之间的爱情是不可能的，因为不能有性交；男女之间的友谊是不可能的，因为必须有性交。他远离音乐会，以免遇见她。他的父亲去世了;该银行的初级合伙人退休了。仍然每天早上他乘电车进城，每天晚上在乔治街吃过适度的饭菜并阅读晚报作为甜点后从城里步行回家。

One evening as he was about to put a morsel of corned beef and cabbage into his mouth his hand stopped. His eyes fixed themselves on a paragraph in the evening paper which he had propped against the water-carafe. He replaced the morsel of food on his plate and read the paragraph attentively. Then he drank a glass of water, pushed his plate to one side, doubled the paper down before him between his elbows and read the paragraph over and over again. The cabbage began to deposit a cold white grease on his plate. The girl came over to him to ask was his dinner not properly cooked. He said it was very good and ate a few mouthfuls of it with difficulty. Then he paid his bill and went out.
一天晚上，当他正要把一小块咸牛肉和卷心菜放进嘴里时，他的手停了下来。他的眼睛盯着他放在水瓶上的晚报上的一段话。他把盘子里的食物放回原处，仔细地读着这段话。然后他喝了一杯水，把盘子推到一边，把面前的纸夹在胳膊肘之间对折，一遍又一遍地读着这段话。卷心菜开始在他的盘子上沉积出冰冷的白色油脂。女孩走过来问他的晚餐是不是煮得不好。他说很好吃，艰难地吃了几口。然后他付了帐就出去了。

He walked along quickly through the November twilight, his stout hazel stick striking the ground regularly, the fringe of the buff Mail peeping out of a side-pocket of his tight reefer overcoat. On the lonely road which leads from the Parkgate to Chapelizod he slackened his pace. His stick struck the ground less emphatically and his breath, issuing irregularly, almost with a sighing sound, condensed in the wintry air. When he reached his house he went up at once to his bedroom and, taking the paper from his pocket, read the paragraph again by the failing light of the window. He read it not aloud, but moving his lips as a priest does when he reads the prayers Secreto. This was the paragraph:
他在十一月的暮色中快步走着，粗壮的榛木棍有规律地敲打着地面，浅黄色的邮件的刘海从他紧身的冷藏大衣的侧袋里露出来。在从帕克盖特通往查佩利佐德的那条孤独的路上，他放慢了脚步。他的棍子敲击地面的力度减弱了，他的呼吸不规则地发出，几乎带有叹息的声音，在寒冷的空气中凝结。当他到达家时，他立即上楼到卧室，从口袋里掏出报纸，借着窗外微弱的光线又读了一遍那段话。他没有大声朗读，而是像牧师朗读秘密祈祷文时那样动动嘴唇。这是这段话：

DEATH OF A LADY AT SYDNEY PARADE
一名女士在悉尼游行中死亡

A PAINFUL CASE
一个痛苦的案例

Today at the City of Dublin Hospital the Deputy Coroner (in the absence of Mr. Leverett) held an inquest on the body of Mrs. Emily Sinico, aged forty-three years, who was killed at Sydney Parade Station yesterday evening. The evidence showed that the deceased lady, while attempting to cross the line, was knocked down by the engine of the ten o’clock slow train from Kingstown, thereby sustaining injuries of the head and right side which led to her death.
今天，在都柏林市医院，副验尸官（Leverett 先生不在场）对 43 岁的 Emily Sinico 女士的尸体进行了调查，她于昨晚在悉尼 Parade 车站被杀。证据显示，死者女士在试图越线时，被从金斯敦出发的十点钟慢车的引擎撞倒，导致头部和右侧受伤，导致死亡。

James Lennon, driver of the engine, stated that he had been in the employment of the railway company for fifteen years. On hearing the guard’s whistle he set the train in motion and a second or two afterwards brought it to rest in response to loud cries. The train was going slowly.
火车头司机詹姆斯·列农 (James Lennon) 表示，他已在铁路公司工作了十五年。听到警卫的哨声后，他启动了火车，一两秒后，随着大声的喊叫，火车停下来。火车开得很慢。

P. Dunne, railway porter, stated that as the train was about to start he observed a woman attempting to cross the lines. He ran towards her and shouted, but, before he could reach her, she was caught by the buffer of the engine and fell to the ground.
铁路搬运工 P. 邓恩 (P. Dunne) 表示，当火车即将启动时，他看到一名女子试图越线。他跑向她并大喊，但还没等他到达她身边，她就被发动机的缓冲器抓住并摔倒在地。

A juror. ‘You saw the lady fall?’
一名陪审员。 “你看到那位女士摔倒了吗？”

Witness. ‘Yes.’
证人。 '是的。'

Police Sergeant Croly deposed that when he arrived he found the deceased lying on the platform apparently dead. He had the body taken to the waiting-room pending the arrival of the ambulance.
警长克罗利称，当他到达时，发现死者躺在站台上，显然已经死亡。他将尸体送往候诊室等待救护车到来。

Constable 57 corroborated.
57号警员证实。

Dr. Halpin, assistant house surgeon of the City of Dublin Hospital, stated that the deceased had two lower ribs fractured and had sustained severe contusions of the right shoulder. The right side of the head had been injured in the fall. The injuries were not sufficient to have caused death in a normal person. Death, in his opinion, had been probably due to shock and sudden failure of the heart’s action.
都柏林市医院助理外科医生哈尔平医生表示，死者两根下肋骨骨折，右肩严重挫伤。摔倒时头部右侧受伤。伤害不足以导致正常人死亡。在他看来，死亡可能是由于休克和心脏突然衰竭所致。

Mr. H. B. Patterson Finlay, on behalf of the railway company, expressed his deep regret at the accident. The company had always taken every precaution to prevent people crossing the lines except by the bridges, both by placing notices in every station and by the use of patent spring gates at level crossings. The deceased had been in the habit of crossing the lines late at night from platform to platform and, in view of certain other circumstances of the case, he did not think the railway officials were to blame.
H. B. Patterson Finlay先生代表铁路公司对此次事故表示深切遗憾。该公司始终采取一切预防措施，通过在每个车站张贴告示以及在平交路口使用专利弹簧门来防止人们越过线路（桥梁除外）。死者习惯于在深夜从一个站台越线到另一个站台，鉴于该案的某些其他情况，他认为铁路官员不应受到责备。

Captain Sinico, of Leoville, Sydney Parade, husband of the deceased, also gave evidence. He stated that the deceased was his wife. He was not in Dublin at the time of the accident as he had arrived only that morning from Rotterdam. They had been married for twenty-two years and had lived happily until about two years ago when his wife began to be rather intemperate in her habits.
死者的丈夫、悉尼游行莱奥维尔的西尼科上尉也提供了证据。他表示，死者是他的妻子。事故发生时他并不在都柏林，因为他是当天早上才从鹿特丹抵达的。他们结婚二十二年了，一直过着幸福的生活，直到大约两年前，他的妻子开始在生活习惯上变得相当放纵。

Miss Mary Sinico said that of late her mother had been in the habit of going out at night to buy spirits. She, witness, had often tried to reason with her mother and had induced her to join a League. She was not at home until an hour after the accident. The jury returned a verdict in accordance with the medical evidence and exonerated Lennon from all blame.
玛丽·西尼科小姐说，最近她妈妈有晚上出去买烈酒的习惯。作为证人，她经常试图与她的母亲讲道理，并诱使她加入联盟。直到事故发生一小时后她才在家。陪审团根据医学证据做出了裁决，免除了列侬的所有责任。

The Deputy Coroner said it was a most painful case, and expressed great sympathy with Captain Sinico and his daughter. He urged on the railway company to take strong measures to prevent the possibility of similar accidents in the future. No blame attached to anyone.
副验尸官表示这是一个最痛苦的案件，并对西尼科船长和他的女儿表示极大的同情。他敦促铁路公司采取有力措施，杜绝类似事故再次发生。没有责怪任何人。

Mr. Duffy raised his eyes from the paper and gazed out of his window on the cheerless evening landscape. The river lay quiet beside the empty distillery and from time to time a light appeared in some house on the Lucan road. What an end! The whole narrative of her death revolted him and it revolted him to think that he had ever spoken to her of what he held sacred. The threadbare phrases, the inane expressions of sympathy, the cautious words of a reporter won over to conceal the details of a commonplace vulgar death attacked his stomach. Not merely had she degraded herself; she had degraded him. He saw the squalid tract of her vice, miserable and malodorous. His soul’s companion! He thought of the hobbling wretches whom he had seen carrying cans and bottles to be filled by the barman. Just God, what an end! Evidently she had been unfit to live, without any strength of purpose, an easy prey to habits, one of the wrecks on which civilisation has been reared. But that she could have sunk so low! Was it possible he had deceived himself so utterly about her? He remembered her outburst of that night and interpreted it in a harsher sense than he had ever done. He had no difficulty now in approving of the course he had taken.
达菲先生把目光从报纸上抬起来，凝视着窗外凄凉的夜景。空荡荡的酿酒厂旁的河水静悄悄的，卢坎路上的一些房子里时不时地亮起灯光。多么好的结局啊！她的死亡的整个故事让他感到厌恶，一想到他曾经对她说过他认为神圣的事情，他就感到厌恶。那些陈词滥调的措辞、愚蠢的同情表达、记者为了掩盖一场司空见惯的庸俗死亡的细节而采取的谨慎措辞，都在攻击着他的胃。她不仅贬低了自己，而且还贬低了自己。她贬低了他。他看到了她肮脏的恶行，悲惨且恶臭。他的灵魂伴侣！他想起了他所看到的那些一瘸一拐的可怜虫，他们拿着罐子和瓶子，等待酒保去装酒。天啊，这真是个结局啊！显然，她不适合生活，没有任何目标的力量，很容易成为习惯的牺牲品，是孕育文明的废墟之一。但她竟然会堕落到如此地步！难道他在她身上完全欺骗了自己吗？他记得那天晚上她的爆发，并以比他以往任何时候都更严厉的方式解释它。现在他毫不费力地批准了他所采取的课程。

As the light failed and his memory began to wander he thought her hand touched his. The shock which had first attacked his stomach was now attacking his nerves. He put on his overcoat and hat quickly and went out. The cold air met him on the threshold; it crept into the sleeves of his coat. When he came to the public-house at Chapelizod Bridge he went in and ordered a hot punch.
当灯光熄灭，他的记忆开始游离时，他以为她的手碰到了他的手。最初袭击他胃部的震惊现在袭击了他的神经。他迅速穿上大衣，戴上帽子就出去了。冷空气在门槛上迎面而来。它爬进了他外套的袖子里。当他来到查佩利佐德桥的酒馆时，他进去点了一杯热潘趣酒。

The proprietor served him obsequiously but did not venture to talk. There were five or six workingmen in the shop discussing the value of a gentleman’s estate in County Kildare They drank at intervals from their huge pint tumblers and smoked, spitting often on the floor and sometimes dragging the sawdust over their spits with their heavy boots. Mr. Duffy sat on his stool and gazed at them, without seeing or hearing them. After a while they went out and he called for another punch. He sat a long time over it. The shop was very quiet. The proprietor sprawled on the counter reading the Herald and yawning. Now and again a tram was heard swishing along the lonely road outside.
老板谄媚地侍奉着他，但不敢说话。店里有五六个工人在讨论基尔代尔郡绅士庄园的价值。他们时不时地用大品脱酒杯喝酒，抽烟，经常吐痰在地板上，有时用沉重的靴子把木屑拖到吐口水上。达菲先生坐在凳子上，看着他们，没有看到他们，也没有听到他们的声音。过了一会儿，他们出去了，他又要求再打一拳。他在上面坐了很长时间。店里非常安静。店主趴在柜台上，一边读着《先驱报》，一边打着哈欠。外面寂静的道路上时不时地听到有轨电车呼啸而过的声音。

As he sat there, living over his life with her and evoking alternately the two images in which he now conceived her, he realised that she was dead, that she had ceased to exist, that she had become a memory. He began to feel ill at ease. He asked himself what else could he have done. He could not have carried on a comedy of deception with her; he could not have lived with her openly. He had done what seemed to him best. How was he to blame? Now that she was gone he understood how lonely her life must have been, sitting night after night alone in that room. His life would be lonely too until he, too, died, ceased to exist, became a memory—if anyone remembered him.
当他坐在那里，回忆着与她一起度过的一生，并交替唤起他现在想象中的她的两个画面时，他意识到她已经死了，她已经不复存在，她已经成为了一段记忆。他开始感到不自在。他问自己还能做什么。他不可能和她上演一场欺骗的喜剧；他不可能公开地和她同居。他已经做了他认为最好的事情。他该怎样受责备呢？现在她走了，他明白她的生活一定是多么孤独，夜复一夜独自坐在那个房间里。他的生活也将是孤独的，直到他也死去，不再存在，成为一段记忆——如果有人还记得他的话。

It was after nine o’clock when he left the shop. The night was cold and gloomy. He entered the Park by the first gate and walked along under the gaunt trees. He walked through the bleak alleys where they had walked four years before. She seemed to be near him in the darkness. At moments he seemed to feel her voice touch his ear, her hand touch his. He stood still to listen. Why had he withheld life from her? Why had he sentenced her to death? He felt his moral nature falling to pieces.
当他离开商店时，已是九点多了。夜晚寒冷而阴沉。他从第一道门进入公园，在枯瘦的树下行走。他走过四年前他们走过的荒凉小巷。黑暗中，她似乎就在他身边。有时他似乎感觉到她的声音触碰着他的耳朵，她的手触碰着他的手。他静静地站着听。他为什么要剥夺她的生命？他为什么要判她死刑？他感到自己的道德天性崩溃了。

When he gained the crest of the Magazine Hill he halted and looked along the river towards Dublin, the lights of which burned redly and hospitably in the cold night. He looked down the slope and, at the base, in the shadow of the wall of the Park, he saw some human figures lying. Those venal and furtive loves filled him with despair. He gnawed the rectitude of his life; he felt that he had been outcast from life’s feast. One human being had seemed to love him and he had denied her life and happiness: he had sentenced her to ignominy, a death of shame. He knew that the prostrate creatures down by the wall were watching him and wished him gone. No one wanted him; he was outcast from life’s feast. He turned his eyes to the grey gleaming river, winding along towards Dublin. Beyond the river he saw a goods train winding out of Kingsbridge Station, like a worm with a fiery head winding through the darkness, obstinately and laboriously. It passed slowly out of sight; but still he heard in his ears the laborious drone of the engine reiterating the syllables of her name.
当他到达杂志山的山顶时，他停下来，沿着河向都柏林望去，都柏林的灯光在寒冷的夜晚闪烁着热情好客的红色。他顺着斜坡往下看，在山脚下，在公园墙的阴影里，他看到了一些人影。那些唯利是图、偷偷摸摸的爱情让他充满了绝望。他啃噬着自己一生的正直；他觉得自己被排除在人生盛宴之外。一个人似乎爱着他，但他却剥夺了她的生命和幸福：他判她受辱，羞辱而死。他知道墙下那些趴在地上的生物正在注视着他，希望他离开。没有人想要他；没有人想要他。他被排除在人生盛宴之外。他把目光转向那条闪闪发光的灰色河流，蜿蜒流向都柏林。河对岸，他看见一列货车蜿蜒地驶出金斯布里奇车站，就像一条长着火热头的蠕虫，顽强而费力地在黑暗中蜿蜒前行。它慢慢地消失在视线之外；但他的耳边仍然听到发动机费力的嗡嗡声，重复着她名字的音节。

He turned back the way he had come, the rhythm of the engine pounding in his ears. He began to doubt the reality of what memory told him. He halted under a tree and allowed the rhythm to die away. He could not feel her near him in the darkness nor her voice touch his ear. He waited for some minutes listening. He could hear nothing: the night was perfectly silent. He listened again: perfectly silent. He felt that he was alone.
他沿着来时的路往回走，耳边响起引擎的轰鸣声。他开始怀疑记忆告诉他的事情的真实性。他在一棵树下停了下来，让节奏渐渐消失。黑暗中他感觉不到她在他身边，也听不到她的声音。他等了几分钟，听着。他什么也听不到：夜晚一片寂静。他又听了一遍：一片寂静。他觉得自己孤身一人。

Ivy Day in the Committee Room
常春藤日在委员会会议室

OLD JACK raked the cinders together with a piece of cardboard and spread them judiciously over the whitening dome of coals. When the dome was thinly covered his face lapsed into darkness but, as he set himself to fan the fire again, his crouching shadow ascended the opposite wall and his face slowly reemerged into light. It was an old man’s face, very bony and hairy. The moist blue eyes blinked at the fire and the moist mouth fell open at times, munching once or twice mechanically when it closed. When the cinders had caught he laid the piece of cardboard against the wall, sighed and said:
老杰克用一块纸板把煤渣耙在一起，然后明智地把它们铺在发白的煤炭圆顶上。当圆顶被薄薄地覆盖时，他的脸陷入黑暗，但当他再次煽动火时，他蹲伏的影子爬上了对面的墙壁，他的脸慢慢地重新出现在光明中。那是一张老人的脸，瘦骨嶙峋，毛茸茸的。湿润的蓝眼睛在火光下眨动，湿润的嘴巴时而张开，闭上时机械地咀嚼一两下。当煤渣沾上后，他把那块纸板靠在墙上，叹了口气说道：

‘That’s better now, Mr. O’Connor.’
“现在好多了，奥康纳先生。”

Mr. O’Connor, a grey-haired young man, whose face was disfigured by many blotches and pimples, had just brought the tobacco for a cigarette into a shapely cylinder but when spoken to he undid his handiwork meditatively. Then he began to roll the tobacco again meditatively and after a moment’s thought decided to lick the paper.
奥康纳先生是一位头发花白的年轻人，脸上布满斑点和粉刺，他刚刚把香烟的烟草装进一个形状优美的圆筒里，但当有人对他说话时，他若有所思地解开自己的杰作。然后他又开始若有所思地卷起烟草，想了想，决定舔一下纸。

‘Did Mr. Tierney say when he’d be back?’ he asked in a sky falsetto.
“蒂尔尼先生有没有说他什么时候回来？”他用天假声问道。

‘He didn’t say.’
“他没说。”

Mr. O’Connor put his cigarette into his mouth and began search his pockets. He took out a pack of thin pasteboard cards.
奥康纳先生把香烟放进嘴里，开始搜口袋。他拿出一包薄纸板卡片。

‘I’ll get you a match,’ said the old man.
“我给你找一根火柴，”老人说。

‘Never mind, this’ll do,’ said Mr. O’Connor.
“没关系，这样就行了，”奥康纳先生说。

He selected one of the cards and read what was printed on it:
他选择了其中一张卡片，读了上面印着的内容：

MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS
市政选举

—————
——————

ROYAL EXCHANGE WARD
皇家交换病房

—————
——————

Mr. Richard J. Tierney, P.L.G., respectfully solicits the favour of your vote and influence at the coming election in the Royal Exchange Ward.
理查德·J·蒂尔尼 (Richard J. Tierney) 先生，P.L.G.，谨向您在皇家交换区即将举行的选举中投票并发挥影响力。

Mr. O’Connor had been engaged by Tierney’s agent to canvass one part of the ward but, as the weather was inclement and his boots let in the wet, he spent a great part of the day sitting by the fire in the Committee Room in Wicklow Street with Jack, the old caretaker. They had been sitting thus since e short day had grown dark. It was the sixth of October, dismal and cold out of doors.
奥康纳先生受蒂尔尼的经纪人委托去巡视病房的一部分，但由于天气恶劣，他的靴子湿透了，他一天中的大部分时间都坐在委员会会议室的火炉旁。威克洛街和老管理员杰克。自从短暂的白天变黑以来，他们就一直这样坐着。那是十月六号，外面阴沉寒冷。

Mr. O’Connor tore a strip off the card and, lighting it, lit his cigarette. As he did so the flame lit up a leaf of dark glossy ivy the lapel of his coat. The old man watched him attentively and then, taking up the piece of cardboard again, began to fan the fire slowly while his companion smoked.
奥康纳先生从卡片上撕下一条条，点燃它，点燃了香烟。当他这样做时，火焰照亮了他外套翻领上一片深色光泽的常春藤叶子。老人聚精会神地看着他，然后又拿起那块纸板，开始慢慢地扇火，而他的同伴则冒着烟。

‘Ah, yes,’ he said, continuing, ‘it’s hard to know what way to bring up children. Now who’d think he’d turn out like that! I sent him to the Christian Brothers and I done what I could him, and there he goes boosing about. I tried to make him someway decent.’
“啊，是的，”他继续说道，“很难知道如何抚养孩子。谁能想到他会变成这样！我把他送到基督教兄弟会，我做了我能做的，但他却在那里起哄。我试图让他变得体面。

He replaced the cardboard wearily.
他疲惫地把纸板放回原处。

‘Only I’m an old man now I’d change his tune for him. I’d take the stick to his back and beat him while I could stand over him—as I done many a time before. The mother, you know, she cocks him up with this and that....’
‘只是我现在已经是个老人了，我才会为他改变态度。当我能站在他身边时，我会把棍子拿在他的背上打他——就像我以前做过的很多次一样。母亲，你知道，她用这样那样的方式让他兴奋……”

‘That’s what ruins children,’ said Mr. O’Connor.
“这就是毁掉孩子的原因，”奥康纳先生说。

‘To be sure it is,’ said the old man. ‘And little thanks you get for it, only impudence. He takes th’upper hand of me whenever he sees I’ve a sup taken. What’s the world coming to when sons speaks that way to their fathers?’
“确实如此，”老人说。 “你并没有得到太多的感谢，只是无礼而已。”每当他看到我吃晚饭时，他就会占据我的上风。当儿子们对父亲这样说话时，世界会变成什么样子？

‘What age is he?’ said Mr. O’Connor.
“他多大了？”奥康纳先生问道。

‘Nineteen,’ said the old man.
“十九岁。”老人说。

‘Why don’t you put him to something?’
“你为什么不让他做点什么？”

‘Sure, amn’t I never done at the drunken bowsy ever since he left school? ‘I won’t keep you,’ I says. ‘You must get a job for yourself.’ But, sure, it’s worse whenever he gets a job; he drinks it all.’
“当然，自从他离开学校以来，我不是从来没有喝醉过吗？ “我不会留住你，”我说。 “你必须为自己找一份工作。”但是，当然，每当他找到工作时，情况都会更糟；他把所有的酒都喝了。

Mr. O’Connor shook his head in sympathy, and the old man fell silent, gazing into the fire. Someone opened the door of the room and called out:
奥康纳先生同情地摇摇头，老人沉默了，凝视着火。有人打开房门，喊道：

‘Hello! Is this a Freemason’s meeting?’
'你好！这是共济会的会议吗？

‘Who’s that?’ said the old man.
“那是谁？”老人问道。

‘What are you doing in the dark?’ asked a voice.
“你在黑暗中做什么？”一个声音问道。

‘Is that you, Hynes?’ asked Mr. O’Connor.
“是你吗，海因斯？”奥康纳先生问道。

‘Yes. What are you doing in the dark?’ said Mr. Hynes. advancing into the light of the fire.
'是的。 “你在黑暗中做什么？”海因斯先生说。前进到火光之中。

He was a tall, slender young man with a light brown moustache. Imminent little drops of rain hung at the brim of his hat and the collar of his jacket-coat was turned up.
他是一个身材高大、修长的年轻人，留着浅棕色的小胡子。即将下起的小雨滴挂在他的帽檐上，夹克衫的领子翻了起来。

‘Well, Mat,’ he said to Mr. O’Connor, ‘how goes it?’
“嗯，马特，”他对奥康纳先生说，“怎么样？”

Mr. O’Connor shook his head. The old man left the hearth and after stumbling about the room returned with two candlesticks which he thrust one after the other into the fire and carried to the table. A denuded room came into view and the fire lost all its cheerful colour. The walls of the room were bare except for a copy of an election address. In the middle of the room was a small table on which papers were heaped.
奥康纳先生摇摇头。老人离开壁炉，在房间里跌跌撞撞地走来走去，手里拿着两个烛台，他把它们一个接一个地塞进火里，然后拿到桌子上。映入眼帘的是一间光秃秃的房间，炉火失去了所有欢快的色彩。房间的墙壁上空无一物，只有一份选举演说的副本。房间中央有一张小桌子，上面堆满了文件。

Mr. Hynes leaned against the mantelpiece and asked:
海因斯先生靠在壁炉架上问道：

‘Has he paid you yet?’
“他付钱给你了吗？”

‘Not yet,’ said Mr. O’Connor. ‘I hope to God he’ll not leave us in the lurch tonight.’
“还没有，”奥康纳先生说。 “我希望上帝今晚他不会让我们陷入困境。”

Mr. Hynes laughed.
海因斯先生笑了。

‘O, he’ll pay you. Never fear,’ he said.
‘噢，他会付钱给你的。永远不要害怕，”他说。

‘I hope he’ll look smart about it if he means business,’ said Mr. O’Connor.
“如果他是认真的，我希望他能在这方面看起来很聪明，”奥康纳先生说。

‘What do you think, Jack?’ said Mr. Hynes satirically to the old man.
“你觉得怎么样，杰克？”海因斯先生讽刺地对老人说。

The old man returned to his seat by the fire, saying:
老人回到火边的座位上，说道：

‘It isn’t but he has it, anyway. Not like the other tinker.’
‘虽然不是，但无论如何他都有。不像其他修补匠。

‘What other tinker?’ said Mr. Hynes.
“还有什么修补匠？”海因斯先生说。

‘Colgan,’ said the old man scornfully.
“科尔根，”老人轻蔑地说。

‘It is because Colgan’s a working—man you say that? What’s the difference between a good honest bricklayer and a publican—eh? Hasn’t the working-man as good a right to be in the Corporation as anyone else—ay, and a better right than those shoneens that are always hat in hand before any fellow with a handle to his name? Isn’t that so, Mat?’ said Mr. Hynes, addressing Mr. O’Connor.
“你这么说是因为科尔根是个工人？一个诚实的瓦工和一个酒馆老板有什么区别——呃？难道工人不是和其他人一样有权利加入公司吗——哎呀，而且比那些总是在任何知道自己名字的人面前戴着帽子的少年们有更好的权利吗？是不是这样，马特？”海因斯先生对奥康纳先生说道。

‘I think you’re right,’ said Mr. O’Connor.
“我认为你是对的，”奥康纳先生说。

‘One man is a plain honest man with no hunker-sliding about him. He goes in to represent the labour classes. This fellow you’re working for only wants to get some job or other.’
“一个人是一个诚实的人，没有任何卑鄙的行为。他代表劳工阶级。你为之工作的这个人只想找一份工作或其他工作。

‘0f course, the working-classes should be represented,’ said the old man.
“当然，工人阶级应该有代表，”老人说。

‘The working-man,’ said Mr. Hynes, ‘gets all kicks and no halfpence. But it’s labour produces everything. The workingman is not looking for fat jobs for his sons and nephews and cousins. The working-man is not going to drag the honour of Dublin in the mud to please a German monarch.’
“工人，”海因斯先生说，“得到了所有的快乐，却没有得到半便士。”但正是劳动创造了一切。工人并不是为他的儿子、侄子和堂兄弟姐妹寻找丰厚的工作。工人不会为了取悦德国君主而将都柏林的荣誉拖入泥沼。

‘How’s that?’ said the old man.
“怎么样？”老人说。

‘Don’t you know they want to present an address of welcome to Edward Rex if he comes here next year? What do we want kowtowing to a foreign king?’
“你难道不知道，如果爱德华·雷克斯明年来到这里，他们想向他发表欢迎辞吗？”我们要向外国国王磕头做什么？

‘Our man won’t vote for the address,’ said Mr. O’Connor. ‘He goes in on the Nationalist ticket.’
“我们的人不会投票支持这个演讲，”奥康纳先生说。 “他加入了国民党。”

‘Won’t he?’ said Mr. Hynes. ‘Wait till you see whether he will or not. I know him. Is it Tricky Dicky Tierney?’
“他不会吗？”海因斯先生说。 ‘等你看看他愿不愿意。我认识他。是狡猾的迪基·蒂尔尼吗？

‘By God! perhaps you’re right, Joe,’ said Mr. O’Connor. ‘Anyway, I wish he’d turn up with the spondulics.’
'老天为证！也许你是对的，乔，”奥康纳先生说。 “无论如何，我希望他能带着脊柱出现。”

The three men fell silent. The old man began to rake more cinders together. Mr. Hynes took off his hat, shook it and then turned down the collar of his coat, displaying, as he did so, an ivy leaf in the lapel.
三人沉默了。老人开始一起耙更多的煤渣。海因斯先生摘下帽子，摇了摇，然后把外套的领子翻下来，在翻领上露出了一片常春藤叶子。

‘If this man was alive,’ he said, pointing to the leaf, ‘we’d have no talk of an address of welcome.’
“如果这个人还活着，”他指着树叶说，“我们就不会谈论欢迎词了。”

‘That’s true,’ said Mr. O’Connor.
“确实如此，”奥康纳先生说。

‘Musha, God be with them times!’ said the old man. ‘There was some life in it then.’
“穆沙，愿上帝与他们同在！”老人说道。 “那时它还有生命力。”

The room was silent again. Then a bustling little man with a snuffling nose and very cold ears pushed in the door. He walked over quickly to the fire, rubbing his hands as if he intended to produce a spark from them.
房间里再次鸦雀无声。这时，一个鼻子抽气、耳​​朵冰冷、忙忙碌碌的小个子男人推门进来。他快步走到火边，搓着手，仿佛要擦出火花。

‘No money, boys,’ he said.
“没钱，孩子们，”他说。

‘Sit down here, Mr. Henchy,’ said the old man, offering him his chair.
“亨奇先生，请坐在这里，”老人说着，把椅子让给了他。

‘O, don’t stir, Jack, don’t stir,’ said Mr. Henchy
“哦，别动，杰克，别动，”亨奇先生说

He nodded curtly to Mr. Hynes and sat down on the chair which the old man vacated.
他向海因斯先生简短地点点头，然后在老人腾出的椅子上坐下。

‘Did you serve Aungier Street?’ he asked Mr. O’Connor.
“你们为昂吉尔街提供服务吗？”他问奥康纳先生。

‘Yes,’ said Mr. O’Connor, beginning to search his pockets for memoranda.
“是的，”奥康纳先生说，开始在口袋里翻找备忘录。

‘Did you call on Grimes?’
“你拜访过格莱姆斯吗？”

‘I did.’
“我做到了。”

‘Well? How does he stand?’
'出色地？他站得怎么样？

‘He wouldn’t promise. He said: ‘I won’t tell anyone what way I’m going to vote.’ But I think he’ll be all right.’
'他不会答应。他说：“我不会告诉任何人我将如何投票。”但我认为他会没事的。

‘Why so?’
'为什么这样？'

‘He asked me who the nominators were; and I told him. I mentioned Father Burke’s name. I think it’ll be all right.’
“他问我提名者是谁；我告诉他。我提到了伯克神父的名字。我想一切都会好起来的。

Mr. Henchy began to snuffle and to rub his hands over the fire at a terrific speed. Then he said:
亨奇先生开始吸鼻子，并以惊人的速度用双手在火上摩擦。然后他说：

‘For the love of God, Jack, bring us a bit of coal. There must be some left.’
“看在上帝的份上，杰克，给我们带来一点煤炭吧。”一定还剩下一些。

The old man went out of the room.
老人走出了房间。

‘It’s no go,’ said Mr. Henchy, shaking his head. ‘I asked the little shoeboy, but he said: ‘Oh, now, Mr. Henchy, when I see work going on properly I won’t forget you, you may be sure.’ Mean little tinker! ‘Usha, how could he be anything else?’
“不行，”亨奇先生摇摇头说道。 “我问那个小鞋童，但他说：‘哦，现在，亨奇先生，当我看到工作进展顺利时，我不会忘记你，你可以确定。’卑鄙的小补锅匠！ “乌莎，他怎么可能是别的什么？”

‘What did I tell you, Mat?’ said Mr. Hynes. ‘Tricky Dicky Tierney.’
“我告诉你什么了，麦特？”海因斯先生说。 “狡猾的迪基·蒂尔尼。”

‘0, he’s as tricky as they make ‘em,’ said Mr. Henchy. ‘He hasn’t got those little pigs’ eyes for nothing. Blast his soul! Couldn’t he pay up like a man instead of: ‘O, now, Mr. Henchy, I must speak to Mr. Fanning.... I’ve spent a lot of money’? Mean little schoolboy of hell! I suppose he forgets the time his little old father kept the hand-me-down shop in Mary’s Lane.’
“0，他就像他们制造的一样狡猾，”亨奇先生说。 ‘他那双小猪的眼睛可不是白来的。轰爆他的灵魂！难道他不能像个男人一样付钱，而不是：“哦，现在，亨奇先生，我必须和范宁先生谈谈……我花了很多钱”？卑鄙的地狱小学生！我想他忘记了他的小老父亲在玛丽巷开旧货店的时间。

‘But is that a fact?’ asked Mr. O’Connor.
“但这是事实吗？”奥康纳先生问道。

‘God, yes,’ said Mr. Henchy. ‘Did you never hear that? And the men used to go in on Sunday morning before the houses were open to buy a waistcoat or a trousers—moya! But Tricky Dicky’s little old father always had a tricky little black bottle up in a corner. Do you mind now? That’s that. That’s where he first saw the light.’
“天哪，是的，”亨奇先生说。 ‘你从来没有听说过吗？周日早上，男人们常常在房屋开门之前进去买一件背心或一条裤子——莫亚！但狡猾的迪基的小老父亲总是在角落里放着一个狡猾的小黑瓶子。你现在介意吗？就是这样。那是他第一次看到光明的地方。

The old man returned with a few lumps of coal which he placed here and there on the fire.
老人带着几块煤回来了，他把这些煤到处放在火上。

‘Thats a nice how-do-you-do,’ said Mr. O’Connor. ‘How does he expect us to work for him if he won’t stump up?’
“这是一个很好的问候语，”奥康纳先生说。 “如果他不肯提出要求，他怎么指望我们为他工作呢？”

‘I can’t help it,’ said Mr. Henchy. ‘I expect to find the bailiffs in the hall when I go home.’
“我没办法，”亨奇先生说。 “我希望回家时能在大厅里找到法警。”

Mr. Hynes laughed and, shoving himself away from the mantelpiece with the aid of his shoulders, made ready to leave.
海因斯先生笑了，用肩膀把自己从壁炉架上推开，准备离开。

‘It’ll be all right when King Eddie comes,’ he said. ‘Well boys, I’m off for the present. See you later. ‘Bye, ‘bye.’
“等埃迪国王来了就没事了，”他说。 “好吧，伙计们，我现在要走了。回头见。 '再见。'

He went out of the room slowly. Neither Mr. Henchy nor the old man said anything, but, just as the door was closing, Mr. O’Connor, who had been staring moodily into the fire, called out suddenly:
他缓缓走出房间。亨奇先生和老人都没有说话，但就在门即将关上时，一直郁郁寡欢地盯着炉火的奥康纳先生突然喊道：

‘‘Bye, Joe.’
“再见，乔。”

Mr. Henchy waited a few moments and then nodded in the direction of the door.
亨奇先生等了一会儿，然后朝门的方向点点头。

‘Tell me,’ he said across the fire, ‘what brings our friend in here? What does he want?’
“告诉我，”他隔着火说道，“是什么把我们的朋友吹到这里来的？他想要什么？'

‘‘Usha, poor Joe!’ said Mr. O’Connor, throwing the end of his cigarette into the fire, ‘he’s hard up, like the rest of us.’
“乌莎，可怜的乔！”奥康纳先生一边说，一边把烟头扔进火里，“他和我们其他人一样，很穷。”

Mr. Henchy snuffled vigorously and spat so copiously that he nearly put out the fire, which uttered a hissing protest.
亨奇先生使劲吸鼻子，吐了很多口水，差点把火扑灭，火发出嘶嘶的抗议。

‘To tell you my private and candid opinion,’ he said, ‘I think he’s a man from the other camp. He’s a spy of Colgan’s, if you ask me. Just go round and try and find out how they’re getting on. They won’t suspect you. Do you twig?’
“告诉你我个人的、坦率的看法，”他说，“我认为他是来自另一个阵营的人。”如果你问我的话，他是科尔根的间谍。四处走走，看看他们过得怎么样。他们不会怀疑你。你有树枝吗？

‘Ah, poor Joe is a decent skin,’ said Mr. O’Connor.
“啊，可怜的乔皮肤不错，”奥康纳先生说。

‘His father was a decent, respectable man,’ Mr. Henchy admitted. ‘Poor old Larry Hynes! Many a good turn he did in his day! But I’m greatly afraid our friend is not nineteen carat. Damn it, I can understand a fellow being hard up, but what I can’t understand is a fellow sponging. Couldn’t he have some spark of manhood about him?’
“他的父亲是一个正派、受人尊敬的人，”亨奇先生承认。 “可怜的老拉里·海因斯！他在他的时代做了许多好事！但我很担心我们的朋友不是十九克拉。该死，我可以理解一个人穷困潦倒，但我无法理解一个人在海绵中。难道他身上就没有一点男子气概吗？

‘He doesn’t get a warm welcome from me when he comes,’ said the old man. ‘Let him work for his own side and not come spying around here.’
“他来的时候并没有受到我的热烈欢迎，”老人说。 “让他为自己这边工作，不要来这里监视。”

‘I don’t know,’ said Mr. O’Connor dubiously, as he took out cigarette-papers and tobacco. ‘I think Joe Hynes is a straight man. He’s a clever chap, too, with the pen. Do you remember that thing he wrote...?’
“我不知道，”奥康纳先生半信半疑地说，同时拿出了烟纸和烟草。 “我认为乔·海因斯是一个正直的人。他在用笔方面也是个聪明人。你还记得他写的那件事吗……？

‘Some of these hillsiders and fenians are a bit too clever if ask me,’ said Mr. Henchy. ‘Do you know what my private and candid opinion is about some of those little jokers? I believe half of them are in the pay of the Castle.’
“如果问我的话，这些山坡人和芬尼人中的一些人有点太聪明了，”亨奇先生说。 “你知道我对那些小小丑的私下和坦诚的看法是什么吗？我相信其中一半是由城堡支付的。

‘There’s no knowing,’ said the old man.
老人说：“不知道。”

‘O, but I know it for a fact,’ said Mr. Henchy. ‘They’re Castle hacks.... I don’t say Hynes.... No, damn it, I think he’s a stroke above that.... But there’s a certain little nobleman with a cock-eye —you know the patriot I’m alluding to?’
“哦，但我确实知道这一点，”亨奇先生说。 “他们是城堡黑客……我不是说海因斯……不，该死，我认为他比那要好得多……但是有一个长着斗鸡眼的小贵族——你知道的我指的是爱国者吗？

Mr. O’Connor nodded.
奥康纳先生点点头。

‘There’s a lineal descendant of Major Sirr for you if you like! O, the heart’s blood of a patriot! That’s a fellow now that’d sell his country for fourpence—ay—and go down on his bended knees and thank the Almighty Christ he had a country to sell.’
“如果你愿意的话，有一个爵士少校的直系后裔给你！”噢，爱国者的心血！现在这个人愿意以四便士的价格出卖自己的国家——哎——然后跪下感谢全能的基督，他有一个国家可以出售。

There was a knock at the door.
有人敲门。

‘Come in!’ said Mr. Henchy.
“请进！”亨奇先生说道。

A person resembling a poor clergyman or a poor actor appeared in the doorway. His black clothes were tightly buttoned on his short body and it was impossible to say whether he wore a clergyman’s collar or a layman’s, because the collar of his shabby frock-coat, the uncovered buttons of which reflected the candlelight, was turned up about his neck. He wore a round hat of hard black felt. His face, shining with raindrops, had the appearance of damp yellow cheese save where two rosy spots indicated the cheekbones. He opened his very long mouth suddenly to express disappointment and at the same time opened wide his very bright blue eyes to express pleasure and surprise.
门口出现了一个类似贫穷牧师或贫穷演员的人。他的黑衣扣子紧紧地扣在他矮小的身躯上，根本无法判断他是牧师的领子还是外行人的领子，因为他那件破旧的礼服的领子，裸露的纽扣反射着烛光，翻到了他的周围。脖子。他戴着一顶黑色硬毡圆帽。他的脸沾着雨滴，闪闪发亮，除了颧骨处有两个红点外，看上去就像湿漉漉的黄色奶酪。他突然张开很长的嘴巴表达失望，同时睁大明亮的蓝眼睛表达高兴和惊讶。

‘O Father Keon!’ said Mr. Henchy, jumping up from his chair. ‘Is that you? Come in!’
“噢，基恩神父！”亨奇先生从椅子上跳起来说道。 '那是你吗？进来！'

‘O, no, no, no!’ said Father Keon quickly, pursing his lips as if he were addressing a child.
“哦，不，不，不！”科恩神父很快说道，他撅起嘴唇，就像在对一个孩子说话一样。

‘Won’t you come in and sit down?’
“你不进来坐下吗？”

‘No, no, no!’ said Father Keon, speaking in a discreet, indulgent, velvety voice. ‘Don’t let me disturb you now! I’m just looking for Mr. Fanning....’
“不，不，不！”科恩神父用谨慎、宽容、柔和的声音说道。 ‘现在别让我打扰你！我只是在找范宁先生……”

‘He’s round at the Black Eagle,’ said Mr. Henchy. ‘But won’t you come in and sit down a minute?’
“他在黑鹰号附近，”亨奇先生说。 “但是你不想进来坐一会儿吗？”

‘No, no, thank you. It was just a little business matter,’ said Father Keon. ‘Thank you, indeed.’
‘不，不，谢谢。这只是一件小事。”科恩神父说。 “确实谢谢你。”

He retreated from the doorway and Mr. Henchy, seizing one of the candlesticks, went to the door to light him downstairs.
他从门口退了出去，亨奇先生抓起其中一个烛台，走到门口给他下楼照明。

‘O, don’t trouble, I beg!’
“哦，别麻烦了，我求你了！”

‘No, but the stairs is so dark.’
“没有，但是楼梯太黑了。”

‘No, no, I can see.... Thank you, indeed.’
“不，不，我明白了……确实谢谢你。”

‘Are you right now?’
“你现在在吗？”

‘All right, thanks.... Thanks.’
“好吧，谢谢……谢谢。”

Mr. Henchy returned with the candlestick and put it on the table. He sat down again at the fire. There was silence for a few moments.
亨奇先生拿着烛台回来，把它放在桌子上。他又在火边坐下。一阵沉默。

‘Tell me, John,’ said Mr. O’Connor, lighting his cigarette with another pasteboard card.
“告诉我，约翰，​​”奥康纳先生一边说，一边用另一张纸板卡片点燃了香烟。

‘Hm? ‘
‘嗯？ '

‘What he is exactly?’
“他到底是什么？”

‘Ask me an easier one,’ said Mr. Henchy.
“问我一个更简单的，”亨奇先生说。

‘Fanning and himself seem to me very thick. They’re often in Kavanagh’s together. Is he a priest at all?’
“在我看来，范宁和他本人的关系非常密切。他们经常一起在卡瓦纳。他到底是个牧师吗？

‘Mmmyes, I believe so.... I think he’s what you call black sheep. We haven’t many of them, thank God! but we have a few.... He’s an unfortunate man of some kind....’
“嗯，我相信是这样……我认为他就是你们所说的害群之马。”我们没有很多，感谢上帝！但我们有一些……他是一个不幸的人……”

‘And how does he knock it out?’ asked Mr. O’Connor.
“他是怎么把它打败的？”奥康纳先生问道。

‘That’s another mystery.’
“那是另一个谜。”

‘Is he attached to any chapel or church or institution or—-‘
“他是否隶属于任何教堂、教堂或机构，或者——”

‘No,’ said Mr. Henchy, ‘I think he’s travelling on his own account.... God forgive me,’ he added, ‘I thought he was the dozen of stout.’
“不，”亨奇先生说，“我认为他是为了自己的利益而旅行……上帝原谅我，”他补充道，“我以为他是一打黑啤酒。”

‘Is there any chance of a drink itself?’ asked Mr. O’Connor.
“有没有机会喝一杯？”奥康纳先生问道。

‘I’m dry too,’ said the old man.
“我也干了。”老人说。

‘I asked that little shoeboy three times,’ said Mr. Henchy, ‘would he send up a dozen of stout. I asked him again now, but he was leaning on the counter in his shirt-sleeves having a deep goster with Alderman Cowley.’
“我问过那个小鞋童三遍，”亨奇先生说，“他会送来一打黑啤酒吗？”我现在又问他了，但他正穿着衬衫靠在柜台上，正在和市议员考利进行一场深度的交流。

‘Why didn’t you remind him?’ said Mr. O’Connor.
“你为什么不提醒他？”奥康纳先生说。

‘Well, I couldn’t go over while he was talking to Alderman Cowley. I just waited till I caught his eye, and said: ‘About that little matter I was speaking to you about....’ ‘That’ll be all right, Mr. H.,’ he said. Yerra, sure the little hop-o’my-thumb has forgotten all about it.’
“好吧，当他和市议员考利谈话时我不能过去。我只是等着，直到我与他的目光相遇，然后说：“关于我跟你说的那件小事……”“没关系，H先生，”他说。耶拉，肯定是小拇指跳已经忘记了这一切。

‘There’s some deal on in that quarter,’ said Mr. O’Connor thoughtfully. ‘I saw the three of them hard at it yesterday at Suffolk Street corner.’
“那个季度有一些交易，”奥康纳先生若有所思地说。 “昨天我在萨福克街拐角处看到他们三个人正在努力工作。”

‘I think I know the little game they’re at,’ said Mr. Henchy. ‘You must owe the City Fathers money nowadays if you want to be made Lord Mayor. Then they’ll make you Lord Mayor. By God! I’m thinking seriously of becoming a City Father myself. What do you think? Would I do for the job?’
“我想我知道他们在玩什么小把戏，”亨奇先生说。 “如果你想成为市长，你现在必须欠市父们的钱。然后他们就会任命你为市长。老天为证！我正在认真考虑自己成为一名城市之父。你怎么认为？我能胜任这份工作吗？

Mr. O’Connor laughed.
奥康纳先生笑了。

‘So far as owing money goes....’
“只要欠钱……”

‘Driving out of the Mansion House,’ said Mr. Henchy, ‘in all my vermin, with Jack here standing up behind me in a powdered wig —eh?’
“开车驶出官邸，”亨奇先生说道，“带着我所有的害虫，杰克站在我身后，戴着一顶扑粉的假发——嗯？”

‘And make me your private secretary, John.’
“让我成为你的私人秘书，约翰。”

‘Yes. And I’ll make Father Keon my private chaplain. We’ll have a family party.’
'是的。我会任命科恩神父为我的私人牧师。我们将举办一个家庭聚会。

‘Faith, Mr. Henchy,’ said the old man, ‘you’d keep up better style than some of them. I was talking one day to old Keegan, the porter. ‘And how do you like your new master, Pat?’ says I to him. ‘You haven’t much entertaining now,’ says I. ‘Entertaining!’ says he. ‘He’d live on the smell of an oilrag.’ And do you know what he told me? Now, I declare to God I didn’t believe him.’
“相信，亨奇先生，”老人说，“你会比他们中的一些人保持更好的风格。”有一天，我正在和搬运工老基冈谈话。 “帕特，你觉得你的新主人怎么样？”我对他说。 “你现在没什么娱乐了，”我说。“娱乐！”他说。 “他靠油布的气味生活。”你知道他告诉我什么吗？现在，我向上帝宣告我不相信他。

‘What?’ said Mr. Henchy and Mr. O’Connor.
“什么？”亨奇先生和奥康纳先生说。

‘He told me: ‘What do you think of a Lord Mayor of Dublin sending out for a pound of chops for his dinner? How’s that for high living?’ says he. ‘Wisha! wisha,’ says I. ‘A pound of chops,’ says he, ‘coming into the Mansion House.’ ‘Wisha!’ says I, ‘what kind of people is going at all now?’
“他告诉我：‘你觉得都柏林市长派人去拿一磅排骨当晚餐怎么样？ “这样的生活怎么样？”他说。 ‘威莎！ “威莎，”我说。“一磅排骨，”他说，“进了官邸。”“威莎！”我说，“现在去的都是些什么人？”

At this point there was a knock at the door, and a boy put in his head.
就在这时，有人敲门，一个男孩探了进来。

‘What is it?’ said the old man.
“那是什么？”老人问道。

‘From the Black Eagle,’ said the boy, walking in sideways and depositing a basket on the floor with a noise of shaken bottles.
“来自黑鹰号。”男孩边说边侧身走进去，把一个篮子放在地板上，发出瓶子摇晃的声音。

The old man helped the boy to transfer the bottles from the basket to the table and counted the full tally. After the transfer the boy put his basket on his arm and asked:
老人帮助男孩把瓶子从篮子里转移到桌子上，并清点了总数。转移结束后，男孩把篮子放在胳膊上，问道：

‘Any bottles?’
“有瓶子吗？”

‘What bottles?’ said the old man.
“什么瓶子？”老人问道。

‘Won’t you let us drink them first?’ said Mr. Henchy.
“你不让我们先喝吗？”亨奇先生说。

‘I was told to ask for the bottles.’
“有人告诉我要瓶子。”

‘Come back tomorrow,’ said the old man.
“明天再来。”老人说道。

‘Here, boy!’ said Mr. Henchy, ‘will you run over to O’Farrell’s and ask him to lend us a corkscrew—for Mr. Henchy, say. Tell him we won’t keep it a minute. Leave the basket there.’
“给你，孩子！”亨奇先生说，“你能跑到奥法雷尔那里请他借给我们一个开瓶器吗？比如说，借给亨奇先生。”告诉他我们不会拖延。把篮子留在那里。

The boy went out and Mr. Henchy began to rub his hands cheerfully, saying:
男孩出去了，亨奇先生开始高兴地搓着手，说道：

‘Ah, well, he’s not so bad after all. He’s as good as his word, anyhow.’
‘啊，好吧，他毕竟没那么坏。无论如何，他言出必行。

‘There’s no tumblers,’ said the old man.
“没有玻璃杯，”老人说。

‘O, don’t let that trouble you, Jack,’ said Mr. Henchy. ‘Many’s the good man before now drank out of the bottle.’
“哦，别让这件事困扰你，杰克，”亨奇先生说。 “许多以前的好人现在都喝了瓶子里的酒。”

‘Anyway, it’s better than nothing,’ said Mr. O’Connor.
“无论如何，有总比没有好，”奥康纳先生说。

‘He’s not a bad sort,’ said Mr. Henchy, ‘only Fanning has such a loan of him. He means well, you know, in his own tinpot way.’
“他不是一个坏人，”亨奇先生说，“只有范宁才借给他这样的人。”你知道，他的本意是好的，以他自己的方式。

The boy came back with the corkscrew. The old man opened three bottles and was handing back the corkscrew when Mr. Henchy said to the boy:
男孩带着开瓶器回来了。老人打开了三个瓶子，正把开瓶器还给他，这时亨奇先生对男孩说：

‘Would you like a drink, boy?’
“你想喝一杯吗，孩子？”

‘If you please, sir,’ said the boy.
“如果您愿意的话，先生，”男孩说道。

The old man opened another bottle grudgingly, and handed it to the boy.
老人不情愿地又打开了一个瓶子，递给了男孩。

‘What age are you?’ he asked.
“你多大了？”他问。

‘Seventeen,’ said the boy.
“十七岁，”男孩说。

As the old man said nothing further, the boy took the bottle. said: ‘Here’s my best respects, sir, to Mr. Henchy,’ drank the contents, put the bottle back on the table and wiped his mouth with his sleeve. Then he took up the corkscrew and went out of the door sideways, muttering some form of salutation.
老人没有再说什么，男孩接过瓶子。说道：“先生，这是我向亨奇先生致以最诚挚的敬意。”喝了里面的酒，把瓶子放回桌子上，用袖子擦了擦嘴。然后他拿起开瓶器，侧身出了门，嘴里咕哝着什么行礼。

‘That’s the way it begins,’ said the old man.
“事情就是这样开始的，”老人说。

‘The thin edge of the wedge,’ said Mr. Henchy.
“楔子的薄边，”亨奇先生说。

The old man distributed the three bottles which he had opened and the men drank from them simultaneously. After having drank each placed his bottle on the mantelpiece within hand’s reach and drew in a long breath of satisfaction.
老人将他打开的三瓶酒分发出去，几个人同时喝了下去。喝完之后，每个人都将自己的瓶子放在伸手可及的壁炉架上，满足地长长地吸了一口气。

‘Well, I did a good day’s work today,’ said Mr. Henchy, after a pause.
“嗯，我今天干得不错，”亨奇先生停顿了一下后说道。

‘That so, John?’
“是这样吗，约翰？”

‘Yes. I got him one or two sure things in Dawson Street, Crofton and myself. Between ourselves, you know, Crofton (he’s a decent chap, of course), but he’s not worth a damn as a canvasser. He hasn’t a word to throw to a dog. He stands and looks at the people while I do the talking.’
'是的。我在道森街、克罗夫顿和我自己给他买了一两件确定的东西。在我们之间，你知道，克罗夫顿（当然，他是一个正派的小伙子），但作为一个游说者，他根本不值得。他没有话可以对狗说。当我说话时，他站着看着人们。

Here two men entered the room. One of them was a very fat man whose blue serge clothes seemed to be in danger of falling from his sloping figure. He had a big face which resembled a young ox’s face in expression, staring blue eyes and a grizzled moustache. The other man, who was much younger and frailer, had a thin, clean-shaven face. He wore a very high double collar and a wide-brimmed bowler hat.
这时有两个男人走进了房间。其中一个是一个非常胖的男人，他那倾斜的身形上，蓝色的哔叽衣服似乎有掉落的危险。他有一张大脸，表情像小牛一样，蓝色的眼睛凝视着，胡子花白。另一个男人则年轻得多，身体也更虚弱，脸庞瘦削，胡子刮得干干净净。他穿着一件很高的双领，戴着一顶宽边圆顶礼帽。

‘Hello, Crofton!’ said Mr. Henchy to the fat man. ‘Talk of the devil...’
“你好，克罗夫顿！”亨奇先生对胖子说。 “谈论魔鬼……”

‘Where did the boose come from?’ asked the young man. ‘Did the cow calve?’
“这酒是从哪里来的？”年轻人问。 “牛生犊了吗？”

‘O, of course, Lyons spots the drink first thing!’ said Mr. O’Connor, laughing.
“哦，当然，莱昂斯首先发现了饮料！”奥康纳先生笑着说道。

‘Is that the way you chaps canvass,’ said Mr. Lyons, ‘and Crofton and I out in the cold and rain looking for votes?’
“这就是你们拉票的方式吗？”里昂斯先生说，“而我和克罗夫顿则在寒冷和雨中出去寻找选票？”

‘Why, blast your soul,’ said Mr. Henchy, ‘I’d get more votes in five minutes than you two’d get in a week.’
“哎呀，让你的灵魂爆炸吧，”亨奇先生说，“我五分钟内得到的选票比你们两个一周得到的选票还要多。”

‘Open two bottles of stout, Jack,’ said Mr. O’Connor.
“打开两瓶黑啤酒，杰克，”奥康纳先生说。

‘How can I?’ said the old man, ‘when there’s no corkscrew? ‘
“没有开瓶器，我怎么办？”老人说。 '

‘Wait now, wait now!’ said Mr. Henchy, getting up quickly. ‘Did you ever see this little trick?’
“等一下，等一下！”亨奇先生迅速站了起来。 “你见过这个小把戏吗？”

He took two bottles from the table and, carrying them to the fire, put them on the hob. Then he sat dow-n again by the fire and took another drink from his bottle. Mr. Lyons sat on the edge of the table, pushed his hat towards the nape of his neck and began to swing his legs.
他从桌上拿起两个瓶子，把它们拿到火边，放在炉灶上。然后他又在火边坐下，又从瓶子里喝了一杯水。莱昂斯先生坐在桌边，将帽子推向颈背，开始摆动双腿。

‘Which is my bottle?’ he asked.
“哪一个是我的瓶子？”他问道。

‘This, lad,’ said Mr. Henchy.
“这个，小伙子，”亨奇先生说。

Mr. Crofton sat down on a box and looked fixedly at the other bottle on the hob. He was silent for two reasons. The first reason, sufficient in itself, was that he had nothing to say; the second reason was that he considered his companions beneath him. He had been a canvasser for Wilkins, the Conservative, but when the Conservatives had withdrawn their man and, choosing the lesser of two evils, given their support to the Nationalist candidate, he had been engaged to work for Mr. Tiemey.
克罗夫顿先生坐在一个盒子上，目不转睛地看着炉灶上的另一瓶酒。他保持沉默有两个原因。第一个原因本身就足够了，那就是他无话可说。第二个原因是他认为他的同伴比他低。他曾是保守党威尔金斯的游说者，但当保守党撤回了他们的候选人，并两害相权取其轻，支持国民党候选人时，他就受聘为蒂米先生工作。

In a few minutes an apologetic ‘Pok!’ was heard as the cork flew out of Mr. Lyons’ bottle. Mr. Lyons jumped off the table, went to the fire, took his bottle and carried it back to the table.
几分钟后，当软木塞从莱昂斯先生的瓶子里飞出来时，听到一声抱歉的“噗！”声。莱昂斯先生从桌子上跳下来，走到火边，拿起他的瓶子，把它带回桌子上。

‘I was just telling them, Crofton,’ said Mr. Henchy, that we got a good few votes today.’
“我只是告诉他们，克罗夫顿，”亨奇先生说，我们今天得到了好几票。

‘Who did you get?’ asked Mr. Lyons.
“你找到谁了？”莱昂斯先生问道。

‘Well, I got Parkes for one, and I got Atkinson for two, and got Ward of Dawson Street. Fine old chap he is, too—regular old toff, old Conservative! ‘But isn’t your candidate a Nationalist?’ said he. ‘He’s a respectable man,’ said I. ‘He’s in favour of whatever will benefit this country. He’s a big ratepayer,’ I said. ‘He has extensive house property in the city and three places of business and isn’t it to his own advantage to keep down the rates? He’s a prominent and respected citizen,’ said I, ‘and a Poor Law Guardian, and he doesn’t belong to any party, good, bad, or indifferent.’ That’s the way to talk to ‘em.’
“好吧，我选了帕克斯为一，阿特金森选为二，还有道森街的沃德。他也是个不错的老伙计——普通的老贵族、老保守派！ “但是你的候选人不是国民党人吗？”他说。 “他是一个值得尊敬的人，”我说，“他赞成任何对这个国家有利的事情。”他是一个纳税大户，”我说。 “他在城里拥有大量房产和三个营业场所，压低房价难道不是对他有利吗？”他是一位杰出的、受人尊敬的公民，”我说，“也是一名济贫法监护人，他不属于任何政党，无论是好党派、坏党派还是冷漠党派。”这就是与“他们”交谈的方式。

‘And what about the address to the King?’ said Mr. Lyons, after drinking and smacking his lips.
“那对国王的讲话呢？”莱昂斯先生喝完酒，咂着嘴唇说道。

‘Listen to me,’ said Mr. Henchy. ‘What we want in thus country, as I said to old Ward, is capital. The King’s coming here will mean an influx of money into this country. The citizens of Dublin will benefit by it. Look at all the factories down by the quays there, idle! Look at all the money there is in the country if we only worked the old industries, the mills, the ship-building yards and factories. It’s capital we want.’
“听我说，”亨奇先生说。 “正如我对老沃德所说，在这个国家我们想要的是资本。国王来到这里将意味着大量资金涌入这个国家。都柏林市民将从中受益。看看码头边的所有工厂，都闲置着！看看如果我们只在旧工业、磨坊、造船厂和工厂工作的话，这个国家有那么多钱。这是我们想要的资本。

‘But look here, John,’ said Mr. O’Connor. ‘Why should we welcome the King of England? Didn’t Parnell himself...’
“但是看这里，约翰，”奥康纳先生说。 “我们为什么要欢迎英国国王？帕内尔本人不是……”

‘Parnell,’ said Mr. Henchy, ‘is dead. Now, here’s the way I look at it. Here’s this chap come to the throne after his old mother keeping him out of it till the man was grey. He’s a man of the world, and he means well by us. He’s a jolly fine decent fellow, if you ask me, and no damn nonsense about him. He just says to himself: ‘The old one never went to see these wild Irish. By Christ, I’ll go myself and see what they’re like.’ And are we going to insult the man when he comes over here on a friendly visit? Eh? Isn’t that right, Crofton?’
“帕内尔，”亨奇先生说，“死了。”现在，这就是我的看法。这位小伙子在他的老母亲不让他参与此事直到他头发花白之后登上了王位。他是一个见多识广的人，他对我们的出发点是好的。如果你问我的话，他是一个非常好的、正派的人，而且他没有任何废话。他只是对自己说：“老家伙从来没有去看过这些野生爱尔兰人。”天哪，我会亲自去看看他们是什么样的。’当他来这里进行友好访问时，我们会侮辱他吗？呃？是吗，克罗夫顿？

Mr. Crofton nodded his head.
克罗夫顿先生点点头。

‘But after all now,’ said Mr. Lyons argumentatively, ‘King Edward’s life, you know, is not the very...’
“但现在，”莱昂斯先生争论道，“爱德华国王的生活，你知道，并不是……”

‘Let bygones be bygones,’ said Mr. Henchy. ‘I admire the man personally. He’s just an ordinary knockabout like you and me. He’s fond of his glass of grog and he’s a bit of a rake, perhaps, and he’s a good sportsman. Damn it, can’t we Irish play fair?’
“过去的事就让它过去吧，”亨奇先生说。 “我个人很钦佩这个人。他只是一个像你我一样的普通无赖。他很喜欢喝烈酒，也许他有点浪荡子，但他还是一位优秀的运动员。该死，我们爱尔兰人就不能公平竞争吗？

‘That’s all very fine,’ said Mr. Lyons. ‘But look at the case of Parnell now.’
“那很好，”莱昂斯先生说。 “但是现在看看帕内尔的例子。”

‘In the name of God,’ said Mr. Henchy, ‘where’s the analogy between the two cases?’
“看在上帝的份上，”亨奇先生说，“这两个案例之间有什么相似之处呢？”

‘What I mean,’ said Mr. Lyons, ‘is we have our ideals. Why, now, would we welcome a man like that? Do you think now after what he did Parnell was a fit man to lead us? And why, then, would we do it for Edward the Seventh?’
“我的意思是，”莱昂斯先生说，“我们有我们的理想。”为什么现在我们会欢迎这样的人呢？在帕内尔做了这件事之后，你现在认为他是领导我们的合适人选吗？那么，我们为什么要为爱德华七世这么做呢？

‘This is Parnell’s anniversary,’ said Mr. O’Connor, ‘and don’t let us stir up any bad blood. We all respect him now that he’s dead and gone—even the Conservatives,’ he added, turning to Mr. Crofton.
“这是帕内尔的周年纪念日，”奥康纳先生说，“别让我们挑起任何不和。”现在他已经去世了，我们都尊重他——甚至包括保守党，”他转向克罗夫顿先生补充道。

Pok! The tardy cork flew out of Mr. Crofton’s bottle. Mr. Crofton got up from his box and went to the fire. As he returned with his capture he said in a deep voice:
噗！迟到的软木塞从克罗夫顿先生的瓶子里飞了出来。克罗夫顿先生从包厢里站起来，走向火堆。当他带着俘虏回来时，他低声说道：

‘Our side of the house respects him, because he was a gentleman.’
“我们这边尊重他，因为他是一位绅士。”

‘Right you are, Crofton!’ said Mr. Henchy fiercely. ‘He was the only man that could keep that bag of cats in order. ‘Down, ye dogs! Lie down, ye curs!’ That’s the way he treated them. Come in, Joe! Come in!’ he called out, catching sight of Mr. Hynes in the doorway.
“你说得对，克罗夫顿！”亨奇先生激烈地说。 “他是唯一一个能把那袋猫收拾得井井有条的人。 ‘下来，你们这些狗！躺下吧，你们这些混蛋！’这就是他对待他们的方式。进来吧，乔！进来！”他喊道，看到了门口的海因斯先生。

Mr. Hynes came in slowly.
海因斯先生慢慢地进来了。

‘Open another bottle of stout, Jack,’ said Mr. Henchy. ‘O, I forgot there’s no corkscrew! Here, show me one here and I’ll put it at the fire.’
“杰克，再打开一瓶黑啤酒，”亨奇先生说。 ‘噢，我忘了没有开瓶器了！来，给我看一个，我会把它放在火上。”

The old man handed him another bottle and he placed it on the hob.
老人又递给他一瓶，他把它放在炉灶上。

‘Sit down, Joe,’ said Mr. O’Connor, ‘we’re just talking about the Chief.’
“坐下，乔，”奥康纳先生说，“我们只是在谈论酋长。”

‘Ay, ay!’ said Mr. Henchy.
“哎呀，哎呀！”亨奇先生说。

Mr. Hynes sat on the side of the table near Mr. Lyons but said nothing.
海因斯先生坐在莱昂斯先生旁边的桌子一侧，但什么也没说。

‘There’s one of them, anyhow,’ said Mr. Henchy, ‘that didn’t renege him. By God, I’ll say for you, Joe! No, by God, you stuck to him like a man!’
“无论如何，其中有一个，”亨奇先生说，“这并没有背叛他。上帝作证，我替你说，乔！不，上帝啊，你像个男人一样粘着他！”

‘0, Joe,’ said Mr. O’Connor suddenly. ‘Give us that thing you wrote—do you remember? Have you got it on you?’
“0，乔，”奥康纳先生突然说道。 “把你写的东西给我们——你还记得吗？”你身上有吗？

‘0, ay!’ said Mr. Henchy. ‘Give us that. Did you ever hear that. Crofton? Listen to this now: splendid thing.’
“0，哎呀！”亨奇先生说。 ‘给我们那个。你听说过吗？克罗夫顿？现在听听这个：太棒了。

‘Go on,’ said Mr. O’Connor. ‘Fire away, Joe.’
“继续吧，”奥康纳先生说。 “开枪吧，乔。”

Mr. Hynes did not seem to remember at once the piece to which they were alluding, but, after reflecting a while, he said:
海因斯先生似乎并没有立刻想起他们所提到的那篇文章，但是，想了一会儿之后，他说道：

‘O, that thing is it.... Sure, that’s old now.’
“哦，就是那个东西……当然，现在已经旧了。”

‘Out with it, man!’ said Mr. O’Connor.
“别这样了，伙计！”奥康纳先生说。

‘‘Sh, ‘sh,’ said Mr. Henchy. ‘Now, Joe!’
“嘘，嘘，”亨奇先生说。 “现在，乔！”

Mr. Hynes hesitated a little longer. Then amid the silence he took off his hat, laid it on the table and stood up. He seemed to be rehearsing the piece in his mind. After a rather long pause he announced:
海因斯先生犹豫了一会儿。然后在一片寂静中，他摘下帽子，放在桌子上，站了起来。他似乎正在心里排练这首曲子。停顿了相当长的一段时间后，他宣布：

THE DEATH OF PARNELL
帕内尔之死

6th October, 1891
1891 年 10 月 6 日

He cleared his throat once or twice and then began to recite:
他清了清嗓子一两次，然后开始背诵：

He is dead. Our Uncrowned King is dead.
他死了。我们的无冕之王死了。

  O, Erin, mourn with grief and woe
哦，艾琳，请以悲伤和悲伤来哀悼

For he lies dead whom the fell gang
因为他已经死了，而这帮堕落的人

  Of modern hypocrites laid low.
现代伪君子被打倒了。

He lies slain by the coward hounds
他被胆小鬼的猎犬杀死了

  He raised to glory from the mire;
他从泥沼中复活，走向荣耀；

And Erin’s hopes and Erin’s dreams
艾琳的希望和梦想

  Perish upon her monarch’s pyre.
死在她君主的火堆上。

In palace, cabin or in cot
在宫殿、小屋或婴儿床上

  The Irish heart where’er it be
爱尔兰人的心在哪里

Is bowed with woe—for he is gone
悲伤地鞠躬——因为他走了

  Who would have wrought her destiny.
谁能主宰她的命运。

He would have had his Erin famed,
他会让他的艾琳出名，

  The green flag gloriously unfurled,
绿色的旗帜光荣地展开，

Her statesmen, bards and warriors raised
她培养了政治家、吟游诗人和战士

  Before the nations of the World.
在世界各国面前。

He dreamed (alas, ‘twas but a dream!)
他做了一个梦（唉，这只是一个梦！）

  Of Liberty: but as he strove
自由：但当他努力时

To clutch that idol, treachery
为了抓住那个偶像，背叛

  Sundered him from the thing he loved.
让他与他所爱的事物分离。

Shame on the coward, caitiff hands
懦夫可耻，俘虏之手

  That smote their Lord or with a kiss
殴打他们的主或亲吻

Betrayed him to the rabble-rout
把他出卖给暴民

  Of fawning priests—no friends of his.
那些阿谀奉承的牧师——没有他的朋友。

May everlasting shame consume
愿永恒的耻辱吞噬

  The memory of those who tried
那些尝试过的人的记忆

To befoul and smear the exalted name
玷污和玷污崇高的名字

  Of one who spurned them in his pride.
一个因骄傲而拒绝他们的人。

He fell as fall the mighty ones,
他像强者一样倒下，

  Nobly undaunted to the last,
至死不渝，英勇无畏，

And death has now united him
死亡现在将他团结在一起

  With Erin’s heroes of the past.
与艾琳过去的英雄一起。

No sound of strife disturb his sleep!
没有任何争吵声打扰他的睡眠！

  Calmly he rests: no human pain
他平静地休息：没有人类的痛苦

Or high ambition spurs him now
或者远大的野心现在激励着他

  The peaks of glory to attain.
达到荣耀的顶峰。

They had their way: they laid him low.
他们有他们的办法：他们把他贬低了。

  But Erin, list, his spirit may
但艾琳，名单上，他的精神可能

Rise, like the Phoenix from the flames,
崛起，如凤凰涅槃，

  When breaks the dawning of the day,
当黎明破晓时，

The day that brings us Freedom’s reign.
这一天给我们带来了自由的统治。

  And on that day may Erin well
在那一天，愿艾琳一切安好

Pledge in the cup she lifts to Joy
她向喜悦举起的杯子里的誓言

  One grief—the memory of Parnell.
一种悲伤——帕内尔的记忆。

Mr. Hynes sat down again on the table. When he had finished his recitation there was a silence and then a burst of clapping: even Mr. Lyons clapped. The applause continued for a little time. When it had ceased all the auditors drank from their bottles in silence.
海因斯先生再次坐在桌子上。当他朗诵完毕时，全场一片寂静，然后爆发出一阵掌声：连里昂斯先生也鼓掌了。掌声持续了一会儿。当它停止时，所有的听众都默默地喝着瓶子里的酒。

Pok! The cork flew out of Mr. Hynes’ bottle, but Mr. Hynes remained sitting flushed and bare-headed on the table. He did not seem to have heard the invitation.
噗！软木塞从海因斯先生的瓶子里飞了出来，但海因斯先生仍坐在桌子上，脸涨得通红，光着头。他似乎没有听到这个邀请。

‘Good man, Joe!’ said Mr. O’Connor, taking out his cigarette papers and pouch the better to hide his emotion.
“好人，乔！”奥康纳先生说着，掏出香烟纸，装进烟袋，以更好地隐藏自己的情绪。

‘What do you think of that, Crofton?’ cried Mr. Henchy. ‘Isn’t that fine? What?’
“克罗夫顿，你对此有何看法？”亨奇先生喊道。 ‘这样不是很好吗？什么？'

Crofton said that it was a very fine piece of writing.
克罗夫顿说这是一篇非常好的文章。

A Mother
一个妈妈

MR HOLOHAN, assistant secretary of the Eire Abu Society, had been walking up and down Dublin for nearly a month, with his hands and pockets full of dirty pieces of paper, arranging about the series of concerts. He had a game leg and for this his friends called him Hoppy Holohan. He walked up and down constantly, stood by the hour at street corners arguing the point and made notes; but in the end it was Mrs. Kearney who arranged everything.
爱尔兰阿布协会的助理秘书霍洛汉先生已经在都柏林来回走动了近一个月，他的双手和口袋里装满了脏纸片，安排了一系列音乐会。他有一条比赛腿，因此他的朋友们称他为“霍皮·霍洛汉”(Hoppy Holohan)。他不断地走来走去，站在街角争论观点并做笔记。但最后一切都是卡尼夫人安排的。

Miss Devlin had become Mrs. Kearney out of spite. She had been educated in a high-class convent, where she had learned French and music. As she was naturally pale and unbending in manner she made few friends at school. When she came to the age of marriage she was sent out to many houses, where her playing and ivory manners were much admired. She sat amid the chilly circle of her accomplishments, waiting for some suitor to brave it and offer her a brilliant life. But the young men whom she met were ordinary and she gave them no encouragement, trying to console her romantic desires by eating a great deal of Turkish Delight in secret. However, when she drew near the limit and her friends began to loosen their tongues about her, she silenced them by marrying Mr. Kearney, who was a bootmaker on Ormond Quay.
出于怨恨，德夫林小姐变成了科尔尼夫人。她曾在一所高级修道院接受教育，在那里她学习了法语和音乐。由于她生性苍白，举止不拘束，所以她在学校交不到朋友。当她到了结婚的年龄时，她被送到许多家庭，她的演奏和象牙举止深受人们的钦佩。她坐在自己成就的冰冷圈子里，等待着某个追求者勇敢地为她提供辉煌的生活。但她遇到的年轻人都很普通，她没有给他们任何鼓励，只是偷偷吃大量的土耳其软糖来安慰自己的浪漫欲望。然而，当她接近极限时，她的朋友们开始对她不再说话，她嫁给了卡尼先生，让他们闭嘴，卡尼先生是奥蒙德码头的制鞋匠。

He was much older than she. His conversation, which was serious, took place at intervals in his great brown beard. After the first year of married life, Mrs. Kearney perceived that such a man would wear better than a romantic person, but she never put her own romantic ideas away. He was sober, thrifty and pious; he went to the altar every first Friday, sometimes with her, oftener by himself. But she never weakened in her religion and was a good wife to him. At some party in a strange house when she lifted her eyebrow ever so slightly he stood up to take his leave and, when his cough troubled him, she put the eider-down quilt over his feet and made a strong rum punch. For his part, he was a model father. By paying a small sum every week into a society, he ensured for both his daughters a dowry of one hundred pounds each when they came to the age of twenty-four. He sent the older daughter, Kathleen, to a good convent, where she learned French and music, and afterward paid her fees at the Academy. Every year in the month of July Mrs. Kearney found occasion to say to some friend:
他比她年长很多。他的谈话很严肃，时不时地在他的棕色大胡子中进行。结婚第一年后，卡尼夫人就觉得这样的男人比浪漫的人穿得更好，但她从未放弃自己的浪漫想法。他为人清醒、节俭、虔诚；他每个第一个星期五都会去祭坛，有时和她一起，更多时候是一个人。但她的宗教信仰从未减弱，并且是他的好妻子。在一个陌生房子里的一次聚会上，当她轻轻地扬起眉毛时，他站起来告别；当他的咳嗽困扰着他时，她把羽绒被盖在他的脚上，喝了一杯浓烈的朗姆酒。就他而言，他是一位模范父亲。通过每周向社团缴纳一小笔钱，他确保两个女儿在年满二十四岁时各获得一百英镑的嫁妆。他把大女儿凯瑟琳送到一所好的修道院，她在那里学习法语和音乐，然后在学院支付学费。每年七月，卡尼夫人都会找机会对朋友说：

‘My good man is packing us off to Skerries for a few weeks.’
“我的好人要带我们去斯克里斯呆几个星期。”

If it was not Skerries it was Howth or Greystones.
如果不是斯克里斯，那就是霍斯或灰石。

When the Irish Revival began to be appreciable Mrs. Kearney determined to take advantage of her daughter’s name and brought an Irish teacher to the house. Kathleen and her sister sent Irish picture postcards to their friends and these friends sent back other Irish picture postcards. On special Sundays, when Mr. Kearney went with his family to the pro-cathedral, a little crowd of people would assemble after mass at the corner of Cathedral Street. They were all friends of the Kearneys—musical friends or Nationalist friends; and, when they had played every little counter of gossip, they shook hands with one another all together, laughing at the crossing of so man hands, and said good-bye to one another in Irish. Soon the name of Miss Kathleen Kearney began to be heard often on people’s lips. People said that she was very clever at music and a very nice girl and, moreover, that she was a believer in the language movement. Mrs. Kearney was well content at this. Therefore she was not surprised when one day Mr. Holohan came to her and proposed that her daughter should be the accompanist at a series of four grand concerts which his Society was going to give in the Antient Concert Rooms. She brought him into the drawing-room, made him sit down and brought out the decanter and the silver biscuit-barrel. She entered heart and soul into the details of the enterprise, advised and dissuaded: and finally a contract was drawn up by which Kathleen was to receive eight guineas for her services as accompanist at the four grand concerts.
当爱尔兰复兴开始受到重视时，卡尼夫人决定利用女儿的名声，请了一位爱尔兰老师到家里。凯瑟琳和她的妹妹给他们的朋友寄了爱尔兰明信片，这些朋友又寄回了其他爱尔兰明信片。在特殊的周日，当科尔尼先生与家人一起前往大教堂前时，弥撒结束后，一小群人会聚集在大教堂街的拐角处。他们都是卡尼夫妇的朋友——音乐界的朋友或者民族主义者的朋友；他们都是卡尼夫妇的朋友。当他们玩完每一个小八卦后，他们一起握手，嘲笑这些男人的双手交叉，然后用爱尔兰语互相道别。很快，凯瑟琳·卡尼小姐的名字开始经常出现在人们的嘴边。人们说她在音乐上很聪明，是一个非常好的女孩，而且她是语言运动的信徒。科尔尼夫人对此很满意。因此，当有一天霍洛汉先生来找她，建议她的女儿在他的协会将在古代音乐厅举办的一系列四场大型音乐会上担任伴奏者时，她并不感到惊讶。她带他走进客厅，让他坐下，然后拿出醒酒器和银色饼干桶。她全身心地投入到这项事业的细节中，提出建议和劝阻：最后起草了一份合同，凯瑟琳将因在四场大型音乐会上担任伴奏而获得八基尼的报酬。

As Mr. Holohan was a novice in such delicate matters as the wording of bills and the disposing of items for a programme, Mrs. Kearney helped him. She had tact. She knew what artistes should go into capitals and what artistes should go into small type. She knew that the first tenor would not like to come on after Mr. Meade’s comic turn. To keep the audience continually diverted she slipped the doubtful items in between the old favourites. Mr. Holohan called to see her every day to have her advice on some point. She was invariably friendly and advising—homely, in fact. She pushed the decanter towards him, saying:
由于霍洛汉先生在法案的措辞和节目物品的处理等敏感问题上是新手，所以科尔尼夫人帮助了他。她很机智。她知道什么艺人该进大写，什么艺人该进小字。她知道第一位男高音不会愿意在米德先生的滑稽表演之后上场。为了不断吸引观众的注意力，她把可疑的项目塞到了以前最喜欢的项目之间。霍洛汉先生每天都会打电话来看望她，征求她对某些问题的建议。她总是很友善，乐于提供建议——事实上，她很亲切。她把酒瓶推向他，说道：

‘Now, help yourself, Mr. Holohan!’
“现在，请自助，霍洛汉先生！”

And while he was helping himself she said:
当他吃东西的时候，她说：

‘Don’t be afraid! Don t be afraid of it! ‘
‘别害怕！别害怕！ '

Everything went on smoothly. Mrs. Kearney bought some lovely blush-pink charmeuse in Brown Thomas’s to let into the front of Kathleen’s dress. It cost a pretty penny; but there are occasions when a little expense is justifiable. She took a dozen of two-shilling tickets for the final concert and sent them to those friends who could not be trusted to come otherwise. She forgot nothing, and, thanks to her, everything that was to be done was done.
一切都很顺利。卡尼夫人在布朗托马斯店买了一些可爱的粉红色查米尤斯绸缎，把它缝在凯瑟琳裙子的前面。它花了一大笔钱；但有时花一点点钱也是合理的。她拿了十几张两先令的最后一场音乐会门票，寄给了那些不放心会来的朋友。她什么都没有忘记，多亏了她，该做的一切都完成了。

The concerts were to be on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday. When Mrs. Kearney arrived with her daughter at the Antient Concert Rooms on Wednesday night she did not like the look of things. A few young men, wearing bright blue badges in their coats, stood idle in the vestibule; none of them wore evening dress. She passed by with her daughter and a quick glance through the open door of the hall showed her the cause of the stewards’ idleness. At first she wondered had she mistaken the hour. No, it was twenty minutes to eight.
音乐会原定于周三、周四、周五和周六举行。周三晚上，当卡尼夫人带着女儿来到安提恩音乐厅时，她不喜欢这里的样子。几个年轻人，外套上戴着亮蓝色的徽章，无所事事地站在前厅里。他们都没有穿晚礼服。她带着女儿路过，透过大厅敞开的门快速扫了一眼，就明白了管家们无所事事的原因。起初她怀疑自己是不是记错了时间。不，距离八点还有二十分钟。

In the dressing-room behind the stage she was introduced to the secretary of the Society, Mr. Fitzpatrick. She smiled and shook his hand. He was a little man, with a white, vacant face. She noticed that he wore his soft brown hat carelessly on the side of his head and that his accent was flat. He held a programme in his hand, and, while he was talking to her, he chewed one end of it into a moist pulp. He seemed to bear disappointments lightly. Mr. Holohan came into the dressingroom every few minutes with reports from the boxoffice. The artistes talked among themselves nervously, glanced from time to time at the mirror and rolled and unrolled their music. When it was nearly half-past eight, the few people in the hall began to express their desire to be entertained. Mr. Fitzpatrick came in, smiled vacantly at the room, and said:
在舞台后面的更衣室里，她被介绍给协会秘书菲茨帕特里克先生。她微笑着握了握他的手。他身材矮小，脸色苍白，表情茫然。她注意到他把柔软的棕色帽子漫不经心地戴在头的一侧，而且他的口音很平淡。他手里拿着一个程序，一边和她说话，一边把程序的一端嚼成湿润的果肉。他似乎对失望很淡然。霍洛汉先生每隔几分钟就会带着票房报告走进更衣室。艺术家们紧张地互相交谈，时不时地看看镜子，滚动和展开他们的音乐。快到八点半的时候，大厅里的几人开始表达自己的招待愿望。菲茨帕特里克先生进来了，对着房间茫然地笑了笑，说道：

‘Well now, ladies and gentlemen. I suppose we’d better open the ball.’
“现在好了，女士们先生们。我想我们最好把球打开。

Mrs. Kearney rewarded his very flat final syllable with a quick stare of contempt, and then said to her daughter encouragingly:
卡尼夫人用轻蔑的眼神回应了他平淡的最后一个音节，然后鼓励地对女儿说：

‘Are you ready, dear?’
“亲爱的，你准备好了吗？”

When she had an opportunity, she called Mr. Holohan aside and asked him to tell her what it meant. Mr. Holohan did not know what it meant. He said that the committee had made a mistake in arranging for four concerts: four was too many.
当她有机会时，她把霍洛汉先生叫到一边，请他告诉她这意味着什么。霍洛汉先生不知道这意味着什么。他说，组委会安排四场音乐会是一个错误：四场太多了。

‘And the artistes!’ said Mrs. Kearney. ‘Of course they are doing their best, but really they are not good.’
“还有艺术家们！”卡尼夫人说。 “当然，他们已经尽力了，但实际上他们并不好。”

Mr. Holohan admitted that the artistes were no good but the committee, he said, had decided to let the first three concerts go as they pleased and reserve all the talent for Saturday night. Mrs. Kearney said nothing, but, as the mediocre items followed one another on the platform and the few people in the hall grew fewer and fewer, she began to regret that she had put herself to any expense for such a concert. There was something she didn’t like in the look of things and Mr. Fitzpatrick’s vacant smile irritated her very much. However, she said nothing and waited to see how it would end. The concert expired shortly before ten, and everyone went home quickly.
霍洛汉先生承认这些艺术家并不出色，但他说，委员会已决定让前三场音乐会随心所欲地进行，并将所有人才保留在周六晚上。科尔尼夫人什么也没说，但是，随着平台上那些平庸的东西一个接一个地出现，大厅里的人越来越少，她开始后悔自己为这样一场音乐会不惜一切代价。事情的外观有些她不喜欢的地方，菲茨帕特里克先生空洞的微笑让她非常恼火。不过，她什么也没说，只是等着看事情的结局。演唱会快十点就结束了，大家都赶紧回家了。

The concert on Thursday night was better attended, but Mrs. Kearney saw at once that the house was filled with paper. The audience behaved indecorously, as if the concert were an informal dress rehearsal. Mr. Fitzpatrick seemed to enjoy himself; he was quite unconscious that Mrs. Kearney was taking angry note of his conduct. He stood at the edge of the screen, from time to time jutting out his head and exchanging a laugh with two friends in the corner of the balcony. In the course of the evening, Mrs. Kearney learned that the Friday concert was to be abandoned and that the committee was going to move heaven and earth to secure a bumper house on Saturday night. When she heard this, she sought out Mr. Holohan. She buttonholed him as he was limping out quickly with a glass of lemonade for a young lady and asked him was it true. Yes. it was true.
周四晚上的音乐会参观人数较多，但卡尼夫人立刻发现房子里堆满了纸。观众们举止不雅，仿佛这场音乐会是一次非正式的彩排。菲茨帕特里克先生看上去很享受。他完全没有意识到卡尼夫人正在生气地注意到他的行为。他站在屏幕边缘，时不时地探出头来，和阳台角落里的两个朋友谈笑风生。晚上，卡尼夫人得知周五的音乐会将被取消，委员会将竭尽全力确保周六晚上能有一个大房子。当她听到这个消息时，她找到了霍洛汉先生。当他为一位年轻女士端着一杯柠檬水一瘸一拐地走出来时，她扣住了他，问他这是真的吗？是的。这是真的。

‘But, of course, that doesn’t alter the contract,’ she said. ‘The contract was for four concerts.’
“但是，当然，这不会改变合同，”她说。 “合同内容是四场音乐会。”

Mr. Holohan seemed to be in a hurry; he advised her to speak to Mr. Fitzpatrick. Mrs. Kearney was now beginning to be alarmed. She called Mr. Fitzpatrick away from his screen and told him that her daughter had signed for four concerts and that, of course, according to the terms of the contract, she should receive the sum originally stipulated for, whether the society gave the four concerts or not. Mr. Fitzpatrick, who did not catch the point at issue very quickly, seemed unable to resolve the difficulty and said that he would bring the matter before the committee. Mrs. Kearney’s anger began to flutter in her cheek and she had all she could do to keep from asking:
霍洛汉先生似乎很着急。他建议她去跟菲茨帕特里克先生谈谈。科尔尼夫人现在开始感到惊慌了。她把菲茨帕特里克先生从屏幕前叫走，告诉他，她的女儿已经签约参加四场音乐会，当然，根据合同条款，她应该得到最初规定的金额，无论协会是否举办这四场音乐会。或不。菲茨帕特里克先生没有很快抓住问题的焦点，他似乎无法解决这个难题，并表示他将把此事提交给委员会。卡尼夫人的怒火开始在她的脸颊上飘扬，她竭力忍住不问：

‘And who is the Cometty pray?’
“请问彗星是谁？”

But she knew that it would not be ladylike to do that: so she was silent.
但她知道这样做不太有淑女风度：所以她沉默了。

Little boys were sent out into the principal streets of Dublin early on Friday morning with bundles of handbills. Special puffs appeared in all the evening papers, reminding the music loving public of the treat which was in store for it on the following evening. Mrs. Kearney was somewhat reassured, but be thought well to tell her husband part of her suspicions. He listened carefully and said that perhaps it would be better if he went with her on Saturday night. She agreed. She respected her husband in the same way as she respected the General Post Office, as something large, secure and fixed; and though she knew the small number of his talents she appreciated his abstract value as a male. She was glad that he had suggested coming with her. She thought her plans over.
周五一早，小男孩们就被送到都柏林的主要街道上，带着成捆的传单。所有晚报上都出现了特别的泡芙，提醒热爱音乐的公众第二天晚上即将举行的盛宴。卡尼夫人稍微放心了一些，但最好还是把她的部分怀疑告诉她的丈夫。他认真地听着，说如果周六晚上和她一起去也许会更好。她同意了。她尊重她的丈夫，就像尊重邮政总局一样，是一个庞大、安全、固定的机构。尽管她知道他的才华有限，但她还是欣赏他作为男性的抽象价值。她很高兴他建议和她一起去。她仔细考虑了自己的计划。

The night of the grand concert came. Mrs. Kearney, with her husband and daughter, arrived at the Antient Concert Rooms three-quarters of an hour before the time at which the concert was to begin. By ill luck it was a rainy evening. Mrs. Kearney placed her daughter’s clothes and music in charge of her husband and went all over the building looking for Mr. Holohan or Mr. Fitzpatrick. She could find neither. She asked the stewards was any member of the committee in the hall and, after a great deal of trouble, a steward brought out a little woman named Miss Beirne to whom Mrs. Kearney explained that she wanted to see one of the secretaries. Miss Beirne expected them any minute and asked could she do anything. Mrs. Kearney looked searchingly at the oldish face which was screwed into an expression of trustfulness and enthusiasm and answered:
盛大的音乐会之夜来临了。科尔尼夫人带着丈夫和女儿在音乐会开始前四分之三小时抵达安提恩音乐厅。不幸的是，那是一个下雨的夜晚。科尔尼夫人将女儿的衣服和音乐交给丈夫负责，并跑遍整栋大楼寻找霍洛汉先生或菲茨帕特里克先生。她两者都找不到。她问管家是否是大厅里的委员会成员，经过一番周折，管家带出了一位名叫贝尔恩小姐的小女人，卡尼夫人向她解释说她想见一位秘书。贝尔恩小姐随时期待着他们的到来，并询问她能做些什么吗？卡尼夫人仔细地看着那张苍老的脸，脸上露出了信任和热情的表情，回答道：

‘No, thank you!’
'不，谢谢！'

The little woman hoped they would have a good house. She looked out at the rain until the melancholy of the wet street effaced all the trustfulness and enthusiasm from her twisted features. Then she gave a little sigh and said:
小女人希望他们能有一所好房子。她看着外面的雨，直到潮湿的街道的忧郁抹去了她扭曲的脸上所有的信任和热情。然后她轻轻叹了一口气，说道：

‘Ah, well! We did our best, the dear knows.’
'呃，好吧！我们已经尽力了，亲爱的知道。

Mrs. Kearney had to go back to the dressing-room.
卡尼夫人不得不回到更衣室。

The artistes were arriving. The bass and the second tenor had already come. The bass, Mr. Duggan, was a slender young man with a scattered black moustache. He was the son of a hall porter in an office in the city and, as a boy, he had sung prolonged bass notes in the resounding hall. From this humble state he had raised himself until he had become a first-rate artiste. He had appeared in grand opera. One night, when an operatic artiste had fallen ill, he had undertaken the part of the king in the opera of Maritana at the Queen’s Theatre. He sang his music with great feeling and volume and was warmly welcomed by the gallery; but, unfortunately, he marred the good impression by wiping his nose in his gloved hand once or twice out of thoughtlessness. He was unassuming and spoke little. He said yous so softly that it passed unnoticed and he never drank anything stronger than milk for his voice’s sake. Mr. Bell, the second tenor, was a fair-haired little man who competed every year for prizes at the Feis Ceoil. On his fourth trial he had been awarded a bronze medal. He was extremely nervous and extremely jealous of other tenors and he covered his nervous jealousy with an ebullient friendliness. It was his humour to have people know what an ordeal a concert was to him. Therefore when he saw Mr. Duggan he went over to him and asked:
艺人们陆续抵达。男低音和第二男高音已经来了。低音杜根先生是一位身材修长的年轻人，留着稀疏的黑胡子。他是城里一间办公室大厅搬运工的儿子，小时候，他就在响亮的大厅里唱着长长的低音音符。他从这个卑微的状态中脱颖而出，成为一流的艺术家。他曾出演大型歌剧。一天晚上，一位歌剧艺术家生病了，他在女王剧院的歌剧《玛丽塔娜》中扮演了国王的角色。他的音乐感情丰富、音量大，受到了画廊的热烈欢迎；但不幸的是，他一两次不小心用戴着手套的手擦了擦鼻子，破坏了良好的印象。他为人谦逊，话很少。他说“你”的声音如此轻柔，以至于没有人注意到，而且为了他的声音，他从来没有喝过比牛奶更烈的东西。第二男高音贝尔先生是一位金发小个子男人，每年都会在费斯国际音乐节上角逐奖项。在第四次审判中，他获得了铜牌。他非常紧张，对其他男高音非常嫉妒，他用热情洋溢的友善掩盖了紧张的嫉妒。让人们知道一场音乐会对他来说是多么的磨难，这是他的幽默。因此，当他看到杜根先生时，他走过去问道：

‘Are you in it too? ‘
‘你也在其中吗？ '

‘Yes,’ said Mr. Duggan.
“是的，”杜根先生说。

Mr. Bell laughed at his fellow-sufferer, held out his hand and said:
贝尔先生嘲笑他的同伴，伸出手说：

‘Shake!’
'摇！'

Mrs. Kearney passed by these two young men and went to the edge of the screen to view the house. The seats were being filled up rapidly and a pleasant noise circulated in the auditorium. She came back and spoke to her husband privately. Their conversation was evidently about Kathleen for they both glanced at her often as she stood chatting to one of her Nationalist friends, Miss Healy, the contralto. An unknown solitary woman with a pale face walked through the room. The women followed with keen eyes the faded blue dress which was stretched upon a meagre body. Someone said that she was Madam Glynn, the soprano.
卡尼夫人从这两个年轻人身边走过，走到屏幕边缘查看房子。座位很快就被坐满了，礼堂里响起了令人愉快的噪音。她回来后私下与丈夫交谈。他们的谈话显然是关于凯瑟琳的，因为当凯瑟琳站着与她的一位民族党朋友、女低音希利小姐聊天时，他们都经常看她一眼。一个面色苍白、身份不明的孤独女人从房间里走过。女人们敏锐地注视着那件褪色的蓝色连衣裙，它铺在瘦弱的身体上。有人说她是女高音格林夫人。

‘I wonder where did they dig her up,’ said Kathleen to Miss Healy. ‘I’m sure I never heard of her.’
“我想知道他们在哪里把她挖出来的，”凯瑟琳对希利小姐说。 “我确信我从来没有听说过她。”

Miss Healy had to smile. Mr. Holohan limped into the dressing-room at that moment and the two young ladies asked him who was the unknown woman. Mr. Holohan said that she was Madam Glynn from London. Madam Glynn took her stand in a corner of the room, holding a roll of music stiffly before her and from time to time changing the direction of her startled gaze. The shadow took her faded dress into shelter but fell revengefully into the little cup behind her collar-bone. The noise of the hall became more audible. The first tenor and the baritone arrived together. They were both well dressed, stout and complacent and they brought a breath of opulence among the company.
希利小姐不得不微笑。这时，霍洛汉先生一瘸一拐地走进更衣室，两位年轻女士问他那个陌生女人是谁。霍洛汉先生说她是来自伦敦的格林夫人。格林夫人站在房间的一角，僵硬地拿着一卷乐谱，时不时地改变她惊讶的目光的方向。影子把她褪色的裙子藏起来，但又报复性地落进她锁骨后面的小杯子里。大厅里的喧闹声变得更加可闻。第一位男高音和男中音一起到来。他们都衣冠楚楚，身材魁梧，洋洋自得，给大家带来了一种富裕的气息。

Mrs. Kearney brought her daughter over to them, and talked to them amiably. She wanted to be on good terms with them but, while she strove to be polite, her eyes followed Mr. Holohan in his limping and devious courses. As soon as she could she excused herself and went out after him.
卡尼夫人把女儿带到他们身边，和他们亲切地交谈。她想和他们搞好关系，但是，虽然她努力保持礼貌，但她的目光却一直追随着霍洛汉先生一瘸一拐、狡猾的行径。她一能原谅就出去追他。

‘Mr. Holohan, I want to speak to you for a moment,’ she said.
'先生。霍洛汉，我想和你谈谈，”她说。

They went down to a discreet part of the corridor. Mrs Kearney asked him when was her daughter going to be paid. Mr. Holohan said that Mr. Fitzpatrick had charge of that. Mrs. Kearney said that she didn’t know anything about Mr. Fitzpatrick. Her daughter had signed a contract for eight guineas and she would have to be paid. Mr. Holohan said that it wasn’t his business.
他们走到走廊的一个隐蔽的地方。卡尼夫人问他什么时候才能给她女儿发工资。霍洛汉先生说菲茨帕特里克先生负责这件事。卡尼夫人说她对菲茨帕特里克先生一无所知。她女儿签了一份价值八几尼的合同，她必须得到报酬。霍洛汉先生说这不关他的事。

‘Why isn’t it your business?’ asked Mrs. Kearney. ‘Didn’t you yourself bring her the contract? Anyway, if it’s not your business it’s my business and I mean to see to it.’
“为什么这不关你的事？”卡尼夫人问道。 “合同不是你亲自给她带来的吗？不管怎样，如果这不是你的事，那就是我的事，我会尽力做好。

‘You’d better speak to Mr. Fitzpatrick,’ said Mr. Holohan distantly.
“你最好和菲茨帕特里克先生谈谈，”霍洛汉先生冷漠地说。

‘I don’t know anything about Mr. Fitzpatrick,’ repeated Mrs. Kearney. ‘I have my contract, and I intend to see that it is carried out.’
“我对菲茨帕特里克先生一无所知，”科尔尼夫人重复道。 “我有合同，我打算确保它得到执行。”

When she came back to the dressing-room her cheeks were slightly suffused. The room was lively. Two men in outdoor dress had taken possession of the fireplace and were chatting familiarly with Miss Healy and the baritone. They were the Freeman man and Mr. O’Madden Burke. The Freeman man had come in to say that he could not wait for the concert as he had to report the lecture which an American priest was giving in the Mansion House. He said they were to leave the report for him at the Freeman office and he would see that it went in. He was a grey-haired man, with a plausible voice and careful manners. He held an extinguished cigar in his hand and the aroma of cigar smoke floated near him. He had not intended to stay a moment because concerts and artistes bored him considerably but he remained leaning against the mantelpiece. Miss Healy stood in front of him, talking and laughing. He was old enough to suspect one reason for her politeness but young enough in spirit to turn the moment to account. The warmth, fragrance and colour of her body appealed to his senses. He was pleasantly conscious that the bosom which he saw rise and fall slowly beneath him rose and fell at that moment for him, that the laughter and fragrance and wilful glances were his tribute. When he could stay no longer he took leave of her regretfully.
回到更衣室的时候，她的脸颊有些泛红。房间里很热闹。两个穿着户外服装的男人占领了壁炉，正在与希利小姐和男中音亲切地聊天。他们是弗里曼人和奥马登伯克先生。弗里曼人进来说他等不及听音乐会了，因为他要报道一位美国牧师在官邸里的演讲。他说他们要把报告留在弗里曼办公室，他会负责把报告放进去。他是一个头发花白的男人，声音可信，举止谨慎。他手里拿着一支熄灭的雪茄，雪茄的香气飘在他身边。他不打算停留片刻，因为音乐会和艺术家让他很无聊，但他仍然靠在壁炉架上。希利小姐站在他面前，有说有笑。他年纪大了，可以怀疑她礼貌的一个原因，但精神上还年轻，可以把这一刻付诸实践。她身体的温暖、芳香和色彩吸引着他的感官。他愉快地意识到，他看到的胸膛在他身下缓慢地起伏，在那一刻为他起伏，笑声、芬芳和任性的目光都是他的贡品。当他无法再留下来时，他遗憾地告别了她。

‘O’Madden Burke will write the notice,’ he explained to Mr. Holohan, ‘and I’ll see it in.’
“奥马登·伯克会写通知，”他向霍洛汉先生解释说，“我会看到的。”

‘Thank you very much, Mr. Hendrick,’ said Mr. Holohan. you’ll see it in, I know. Now, won’t you have a little something before you go?’
“非常感谢你，亨德里克先生，”霍洛汉先生说。我知道，你会看到的。现在，你走之前不想吃点东西吗？

‘I don’t mind,’ said Mr. Hendrick.
“我不介意，”亨德里克先生说。

The two men went along some tortuous passages and up a dark staircase and came to a secluded room where one of the stewards was uncorking bottles for a few gentlemen. One of these gentlemen was Mr. O’Madden Burke, who had found out the room by instinct. He was a suave, elderly man who balanced his imposing body, when at rest, upon a large silk umbrella. His magniloquent western name was the moral umbrella upon which he balanced the fine problem of his finances. He was widely respected.
两人沿着一些曲折的通道走上一段黑暗的楼梯，来到一间僻静的房间，其中一名管家正在为几位先生打开酒瓶。其中一位先生是奥马登·伯克先生，他凭本能找到了这个房间。他是一位温文尔雅的老人，休息时用一把大丝伞平衡着他那雄伟的身体。他华丽的西方名字是他平衡财务问题的道德保护伞。他受到广泛的尊重。

While Mr. Holohan was entertaining the Freeman man Mrs. Kearney was speaking so animatedly to her husband that he had to ask her to lower her voice. The conversation of the others in the dressing-room had become strained. Mr. Bell, the first item, stood ready with his music but the accompanist made no sign. Evidently something was wrong. Mr. Kearney looked straight before him, stroking his beard, while Mrs. Kearney spoke into Kathleen’s ear with subdued emphasis. From the hall came sounds of encouragement, clapping and stamping of feet. The first tenor and the baritone and Miss Healy stood together, waiting tranquilly, but Mr. Bell’s nerves were greatly agitated because he was afraid the audience would think that he had come late.
当霍洛汉先生招待弗里曼人时，卡尼夫人对她的丈夫说话非常热情，他不得不要求她降低声音。更衣室里其他人的谈话变得紧张起来。第一个出场的贝尔先生已经准备好了他的音乐，但伴奏者却没有任何反应。显然出了什么问题。科尔尼先生直视着他的前方，抚摸着自己的胡须，而科尔尼夫人则在凯瑟琳的耳边轻声强调。大厅里传来鼓励的声音、鼓掌声和跺脚声。第一男高音、男中音和希利小姐站在一起，平静地等待着，贝尔先生的神经却极度躁动，生怕观众以为他来晚了。

Mr. Holohan and Mr. O’Madden Burke came into the room In a moment Mr. Holohan perceived the hush. He went over to Mrs. Kearney and spoke with her earnestly. While they were speaking the noise in the hall grew louder. Mr. Holohan became very red and excited. He spoke volubly, but Mrs. Kearney said curtly at intervals:
霍洛汉先生和奥马登·伯克先生走进了房间。霍洛汉先生立刻察觉到了寂静。他走到卡尼夫人身边，诚恳地与她交谈。说话间，大厅里的喧闹声越来越大。霍洛汉先生脸色涨得通红，激动不已。他滔滔不绝地说着，但卡尼夫人时不时地简短地说：

‘She won’t go on. She must get her eight guineas.’
‘她不会再继续下去了。她必须拿到八基尼。

Mr. Holohan pointed desperately towards the hall where the audience was clapping and stamping. He appealed to Mr Kearney and to Kathleen. But Mr. Kearney continued to stroke his beard and Kathleen looked down, moving the point of her new shoe: it was not her fault. Mrs. Kearney repeated:
霍洛汉先生绝望地指着观众席鼓掌跺脚的大厅。他向卡尼先生和凯瑟琳发出呼吁。但卡尼先生继续抚摸他的胡子，凯瑟琳低下头，移动她的新鞋尖：这不是她的错。科尔尼夫人重复道：

‘She won’t go on without her money.’
“没有钱，她就活不下去。”

After a swift struggle of tongues Mr. Holohan hobbled out in haste. The room was silent. When the strain of the silence had become somewhat painful Miss Healy said to the baritone:
一阵激烈的舌战之后，霍洛汉先生匆匆一瘸一拐地走了出去。房间里一片寂静。当沉默的紧张变得有些痛苦时，希利小姐对男中音说道：

‘Have you seen Mrs. Pat Campbell this week?’
“这周你见过帕特·坎贝尔夫人吗？”

The baritone had not seen her but he had been told that she was very fine. The conversation went no further. The first tenor bent his head and began to count the links of the gold chain which was extended across his waist, smiling and humming random notes to observe the effect on the frontal sinus. From time to time everyone glanced at Mrs. Kearney.
男中音没有见过她，但他被告知她很好。谈话没有再继续下去。第一位男高音低下头，开始数着腰间的金链子，一边微笑着，一边哼着随意的音符，观察对额窦的影响。大家时不时地看向卡尼夫人。

The noise in the auditorium had risen to a clamour when Mr. Fitzpatrick burst into the room, followed by Mr. Holohan who was panting. The clapping and stamping in the hall were punctuated by whistling. Mr. Fitzpatrick held a few banknotes in his hand. He counted out four into Mrs. Kearney’s hand and said she would get the other half at the interval. Mrs. Kearney said:
当菲茨帕特里克先生冲进房间时，礼堂里的喧闹声变得一片喧闹，后面跟着气喘吁吁的霍洛汉先生。大厅里响起了鼓掌声、跺脚声，不时夹杂着口哨声。菲茨帕特里克先生手里拿着几张钞票。他数了四张到卡尼夫人手中，并说她会在中场休息时拿另一半。科尔尼夫人说：

‘This is four shillings short.’
“这还差四先令。”

But Kathleen gathered in her skirt and said: ‘Now. Mr. Bell,’ to the first item, who was shaking like an aspen. The singer and the accompanist went out together. The noise in hall died away. There was a pause of a few seconds: and then the piano was heard.
但凯瑟琳把裙子收拢起来，说道：“现在。”贝尔先生，”对第一个项目说，他像白杨一样颤抖。歌手和伴奏者一起出去了。大厅里的喧闹声渐渐消失。停顿了几秒钟：然后听到了钢琴声。

The first part of the concert was very successful except for Madam Glynn’s item. The poor lady sang Killarney in a bodiless gasping voice, with all the old-fashioned mannerisms of intonation and pronunciation which she believed lent elegance to her singing. She looked as if she had been resurrected from an old stage-wardrobe and the cheaper parts of the hall made fun of her high wailing notes. The first tenor and the contralto, however, brought down the house. Kathleen played a selection of Irish airs which was generously applauded. The first part closed with a stirring patriotic recitation delivered by a young lady who arranged amateur theatricals. It was deservedly applauded; and, when it was ended, the men went out for the interval, content.
音乐会的第一部分除了格林女士的项目外都非常成功。这位可怜的女士用一种没有身体的气喘吁吁的声音唱《基拉尼》，她相信这些老式的语调和发音风格给她的歌带来了优雅。她看起来就像是从旧的舞台衣柜里复活了，大厅里便宜的地方嘲笑她高亢的哀号。然而，首席男高音和女低音却赢得了全场好评。凯瑟琳演奏了精选的爱尔兰曲目，赢得了热烈的掌声。第一部分以一位安排业余戏剧的年轻女士激动人心的爱国朗诵结束。这是当之无愧的掌声；比赛结束后，人们心满意足地出去休息了。

All this time the dressing-room was a hive of excitement. In one corner were Mr. Holohan, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Miss Beirne, two of the stewards, the baritone, the bass, and Mr. O’Madden Burke. Mr. O’Madden Burke said it was the most scandalous exhibition he had ever witnessed. Miss Kathleen Kearney’s musical career was ended in Dublin after that, he said. The baritone was asked what did he think of Mrs. Kearney’s conduct. He did not like to say anything. He had been paid his money and wished to be at peace with men. However, he said that Mrs. Kearney might have taken the artistes into consideration. The stewards and the secretaries debated hotly as to what should be done when the interval came.
这段时间，更衣室里充满了兴奋。一个角落里坐着霍洛汉先生、菲茨帕特里克先生、贝尔恩小姐、两名乘务员、男中音、贝斯手和奥马登·伯克先生。奥马登·伯克先生表示，这是他见过的最可耻的展览。他说，凯瑟琳·卡尼小姐的音乐生涯在那之后就在都柏林结束了。有人问男中音他对卡尼夫人的行为有何看法。他不喜欢说什么。他已经得到了钱，希望与人和睦相处。不过，他说卡尼夫人可能已经考虑到了艺人的情况。干事们和秘书们就中场休息时应该做什么展开了激烈的争论。

‘I agree with Miss Beirne,’ said Mr. O’Madden Burke. ‘Pay her nothing.’
“我同意贝尔恩小姐的观点，”奥马登·伯克先生说。 “什么也不付给她。”

In another corner of the room were Mrs. Kearney and he: husband, Mr. Bell, Miss Healy and the young lady who had to recite the patriotic piece. Mrs. Kearney said that the Committee had treated her scandalously. She had spared neither trouble nor expense and this was how she was repaid.
房间的另一个角落里坐着卡尼夫人和他：丈夫、贝尔先生、希利小姐和那位必须背诵爱国歌曲的年轻女士。科尔尼夫人说，委员会对她的态度是可耻的。她不辞辛劳，不辞辛劳，得到的就是这样的回报。

They thought they had only a girl to deal with and that therefore, they could ride roughshod over her. But she would show them their mistake. They wouldn’t have dared to have treated her like that if she had been a man. But she would see that her daughter got her rights: she wouldn’t be fooled. If they didn’t pay her to the last farthing she would make Dublin ring. Of course she was sorry for the sake of the artistes. But what else could she do? She appealed to the second tenor who said he thought she had not been well treated. Then she appealed to Miss Healy. Miss Healy wanted to join the other group but she did not like to do so because she was a great friend of Kathleen’s and the Kearneys had often invited her to their house.
他们以为自己要对付的只是一个女孩，因此可以对她横行霸道。但她会让他们知道他们的错误。如果她是个男人，他们也不敢这样对待她。但她会看到她的女儿得到了她的权利：她不会被愚弄。如果他们不付给她最后一分钱，她就会让都柏林响起。当然，她也是为了艺人的缘故而感到抱歉。但她还能做什么呢？她向第二位男高音求助，后者说他认为她没有受到很好的对待。然后她向希利小姐求助。希利小姐想加入另一群人，但她不喜欢这样做，因为她是凯瑟琳的好朋友，而卡尼夫妇经常邀请她去他们家。

As soon as the first part was ended Mr. Fitzpatrick and Mr. Holohan went over to Mrs. Kearney and told her that the other four guineas would be paid after the committee meeting on the following Tuesday and that, in case her daughter did not play for the second part, the committee would consider the contract broken and would pay nothing.
第一部分一结束，菲茨帕特里克先生和霍洛汉先生就走到科尔尼夫人身边，告诉她，其他四基尼将在下周二的委员会会议后支付，以防她的女儿不参加比赛。对于第二部分，委员会将认为合同已被破坏，并且不支付任何费用。

‘I haven’t seen any committee,’ said Mrs. Kearney angrily. ‘My daughter has her contract. She will get four pounds eight into her hand or a foot she won’t put on that platform.’
“我没有看到任何委员会，”卡尼夫人生气地说。 “我女儿有合同。她将把四磅八的东西放到她的手上或她不会放在那个平台上的脚上。

‘I’m surprised at you, Mrs. Kearney,’ said Mr. Holohan. ‘I never thought you would treat us this way.’
“我对你感到惊讶，卡尼夫人，”霍洛汉先生说。 “我没想到你会这样对待我们。”

‘And what way did you treat me?’ asked Mrs. Kearney.
“你是怎样对待我的？”卡尼夫人问道。

Her face was inundated with an angry colour and she looked as if she would attack someone with her hands.
她的脸上充满了愤怒之色，看上去就像是要动手打人一样。

‘I’m asking for my rights.’ she said.
“我要求我的权利。”她说。

You might have some sense of decency,’ said Mr. Holohan.
“你可能还有点正派观念，”霍洛汉先生说。

‘Might I, indeed?... And when I ask when my daughter is going to be paid I can’t get a civil answer.’
“我确实可以吗？……当我问我女儿什么时候能拿到工资时，我无法得到文明的答案。”

She tossed her head and assumed a haughty voice:
她歪着头，做出一副傲慢的声音：

‘You must speak to the secretary. It’s not my business. I’m a great fellow fol-the-diddle-I-do.’
“你必须和秘书谈谈。不关我的事。我是个很会骗人的人。

‘I thought you were a lady,’ said Mr. Holohan, walking away from her abruptly.
“我以为你是一位女士，”霍洛汉先生说着，突然从她身边走开。

After that Mrs. Kearney’s conduct was condemned on all hands: everyone approved of what the committee had done. She stood at the door, haggard with rage, arguing with her husband and daughter, gesticulating with them. She waited until it was time for the second part to begin in the hope that the secretaries would approach her. But Miss Healy had kindly consented to play one or two accompaniments. Mrs. Kearney had to stand aside to allow the baritone and his accompanist to pass up to the platform. She stood still for an instant like an angry stone image and, when the first notes of the song struck her ear, she caught up her daughter’s cloak and said to her husband:
此后，卡尼夫人的行为受到了各方的谴责：大家都认可了委员会的做法。她站在门口，气得面容憔悴，与丈夫、女儿争吵，指手划脚。她等到第二部分开始的时候，希望秘书们能来找她。但希利小姐好心地同意演奏一两首伴奏。卡尼夫人不得不站到一边，让男中音和他的伴奏者走上讲台。她一动不动地站了一会儿，就像一尊愤怒的石像，当歌曲的第一个音符传入她的耳朵时，她抓住了女儿的斗篷，对她的丈夫说：

‘Get a cab!’
“叫辆出租车！”

He went out at once. Mrs. Kearney wrapped the cloak round her daughter and followed him. As she passed through the doorway she stopped and glared into Mr. Holohan’s face.
他立刻出去了。卡尼夫人给女儿裹上斗篷，跟着他走了。当她穿过门口时，她停了下来，瞪着霍洛汉先生的脸。

‘I’m not done with you yet,’ she said.
“我还没和你说完，”她说。

‘But I’m done with you,’ said Mr. Holohan.
“但我已经受够你了，”霍洛汉先生说。

Kathleen followed her mother meekly. Mr. Holohan began to pace up and down the room, in order to cool himself for he his skin on fire.
凯瑟琳温顺地跟着她的母亲。霍洛汉先生开始在房间里来回踱步，为自己的皮肤着火降温。

‘That’s a nice lady!’ he said. ‘O, she’s a nice lady!’
“那是一位好女士！”他说。 “哦，她是一位好女士！”

You did the proper thing, Holohan,’ said Mr. O’Madden Burke, poised upon his umbrella in approval.
“霍洛汉，你做得对。”奥马登·伯克先生撑着伞表示赞同，说道。

Grace
优雅

TWO GENTLEMEN who were in the lavatory at the time tried to lift him up: but he was quite helpless. He lay curled up at the foot of the stairs down which he had fallen. They succeeded in turning him over. His hat had rolled a few yards away and his clothes were smeared with the filth and ooze of the floor on which he had lain, face downwards. His eyes were closed and he breathed with a grunting noise. A thin stream of blood trickled from the corner of his mouth.
当时在厕所里的两位绅士试图把他扶起来，但他很无助。他蜷缩在他摔下的楼梯脚下。他们成功地把他翻了过来。他的帽子滚到了几码远的地方，衣服上沾满了他脸朝下躺过的地板上的污物和软泥。他闭着眼睛，呼吸着咕噜的声音。一道细细的血丝从他的嘴角流淌出来。

These two gentlemen and one of the curates carried him up the stairs and laid him down again on the floor of the bar. In two minutes he was surrounded by a ring of men. The manager of the bar asked everyone who he was and who was with him. No one knew who he was but one of the curates said he had served the gentleman with a small rum.
这两位先生和一位牧师把他抬上楼梯，又把他放在酒吧的地板上。两分钟后，他就被一圈人包围了。酒吧经理询问每个人他是谁，和他在一起的是谁。没有人知道他是谁，但一位牧师说他为这位绅士提供了一小杯朗姆酒。

‘Was he by himself?’ asked the manager.
“他一个人吗？”经理问。

‘No, sir. There was two gentlemen with him.’
'不，先生。有两位先生和他在一起。

‘And where are they?’
“他们在哪儿？”

No one knew; a voice said:
没有人知道；一个声音说：

‘Give him air. He’s fainted.’
‘给他空气。他晕倒了。

The ring of onlookers distended and closed again elastically. A dark medal of blood had formed itself near the man’s head on the tessellated floor. The manager, alarmed by the grey pallor of the man’s face, sent for a policeman.
围观者的圈子扩大了，又弹性地合拢了。镶嵌着棋子的地板上，男人的头部附近形成了一块黑色的血迹。经理被那人苍白的脸色吓到了，派人去叫来了一名警察。

His collar was unfastened and his necktie undone. He opened eyes for an instant, sighed and closed them again. One of gentlemen who had carried him upstairs held a dinged silk hat in his hand. The manager asked repeatedly did no one know who the injured man was or where had his friends gone. The door of the bar opened and an immense constable entered. A crowd which had followed him down the laneway collected outside the door, struggling to look in through the glass panels.
他的衣领没扣好，领带也解开。他猛地睁开眼睛，叹了口气，又闭上了。一位把他抬上楼的绅士手里拿着一顶有凹痕的丝帽。经理再三询问是否无人知道受伤男子是谁，以及他的朋友去了哪里。酒吧的门打开了，一名身材高大的警察走了进来。一群跟随他沿着巷道走下去的人群聚集在门外，费力地透过玻璃板往里看。

The manager at once began to narrate what he knew. The costable, a young man with thick immobile features, listened. He moved his head slowly to right and left and from the manager to the person on the floor, as if he feared to be the victim some delusion. Then he drew off his glove, produced a small book from his waist, licked the lead of his pencil and made ready to indite. He asked in a suspicious provincial accent:
经理立即开始讲述他所知道的事情。那位长着厚厚一动不动的年轻人，听着。他慢慢地将头左右移动，从经理到地板上的人，好像他害怕成为某种错觉的受害者。然后他脱下手套，从腰间掏出一本小书，舔了舔铅笔芯，准备开始写。他用可疑的乡下口音问道：

‘Who is the man? What’s his name and address?’
'这人是谁？他的名字和地址是什么？

A young man in a cycling-suit cleared his way through the ring of bystanders. He knelt down promptly beside the injured man and called for water. The constable knelt down also to help. The young man washed the blood from the injured man’s mouth and then called for some brandy. The constable repeated the order in an authoritative voice until a curate came running with the glass. The brandy was forced down the man’s throat. In a few seconds he opened his eyes and looked about him. He looked at the circle of faces and then, understanding, strove to rise to his feet.
一名身穿骑行服的年轻人从围观者中开出一条路。他迅速跪在受伤男子身边，并要求喝水。巡警也跪下来帮忙。年轻人洗净了受伤者嘴里的血迹，然后要了一些白兰地。警官用权威的声音重复了这个命令，直到牧师拿着玻璃跑过来。白兰地被强行灌进男人的喉咙里。几秒钟后，他睁开了眼睛，环顾四周。他看了看一圈人的脸，然后明白了，努力站了起来。

‘You’re all right now?’ asked the young man in the cyclingsuit.
“你现在还好吗？”穿着骑行服的年轻人问道。

‘Sha,’s nothing,’ said the injured man, trying to stand up.
“煞，没什么。”受伤男子一边说着，一边试图站起来。

He was helped to his feet. The manager said something about a hospital and some of the bystanders gave advice. The battered silk hat was placed on the man’s head. The constable asked:
有人搀扶他站了起来。经理说了一些关于医院的事情，一些旁观者也提出了建议。那顶破烂的丝帽戴在了男人的头上。巡警问道：

‘Where do you live?’
'你住在哪里？'

The man, without answering, began to twirl the ends of his moustache. He made light of his accident. It was nothing, he said: only a little accident. He spoke very thickly.
男人没有回答，开始捻着胡子末端。他对自己的事故轻描淡写。没什么，他说：只是一个小意外。他说话的声音很粗。

‘Where do you live’ repeated the constable.
“你住在哪里”警官重复道。

The man said they were to get a cab for him. While the point was being debated a tall agile gentleman of fair complexion, wearing a long yellow ulster, came from the far end of the bar. Seeing the spectacle, he called out:
该男子说他们要为他叫一辆出租车。正当大家争论这个问题的时候，酒吧的另一头走来了一位身材高大、皮肤白皙、身穿黄色长袍、敏捷的绅士。看到这一幕，他大声喊道：

‘Hallo, Tom, old man! What’s the trouble?’
‘你好，汤姆，老伙计！有什么麻烦吗？

‘Sha,’s nothing,’ said the man.
“啥，没什么。”那人说道。

The new-comer surveyed the deplorable figure before him and then turned to the constable, saying:
新来的人打量了面前这个可怜的人影，然后转向警察说道：

‘It’s all right, constable. I’ll see him home.’
“没关系，警官。我会送他回家。

The constable touched his helmet and answered:
警察摸了摸头盔，回答道：

‘All right, Mr. Power!’
“好吧，鲍尔先生！”

‘Come now, Tom,’ said Mr. Power, taking his friend by the arm. ‘No bones broken. What? Can you walk?’
“来吧，汤姆，”鲍尔先生拉着他朋友的手臂说道。 ‘骨头没有折断。什么？你可以行走吗？'

The young man in the cycling-suit took the man by the other arm and the crowd divided.
穿着骑行服的年轻人抓住了那人的另一只手臂，人群分开了。

‘How did you get yourself into this mess?’ asked Mr. Power.
“你是怎么让自己陷入这样的困境的？”鲍尔先生问道。

‘The gentleman fell down the stairs,’ said the young man.
“这位先生从楼梯上摔下来了，”年轻人说。

‘I’ ‘ery ‘uch o’liged to you, sir,’ said the injured man.
“我非常感谢你，先生，”受伤的人说道。

‘Not at all.’
'一点也不。'

‘‘ant we have a little...?’
“我们有一点……吗？”

‘Not now. Not now.’
'现在不要。现在不要。'

The three men left the bar and the crowd sifted through the doors in to the laneway. The manager brought the constable to the stairs to inspect the scene of the accident. They agreed that the gentleman must have missed his footing. The customers returned to the counter and a curate set about removing the traces of blood from the floor.
三个人离开酒吧，人群穿过门进入巷道。经理带着警员到楼梯上检查事故现场。他们一致认为这位先生一定是失足了。顾客们回到柜台，牧师开始清除地板上的血迹。

When they came out into Grafton Street, Mr. Power whistled for an outsider. The injured man said again as well as he could.
当他们来到格拉夫顿街时，鲍尔先生吹口哨招呼外人。受伤的男子尽可能地再次说道。

‘I’ ‘ery ‘uch o’liged to you, sir. I hope we’ll ‘eet again. ‘y na’e is Kernan.’
“我非常感谢你，先生。”我希望我们能再次见面。 “你是克南。”

The shock and the incipient pain had partly sobered him.
震惊和刚开始的疼痛让他清醒了一些。

‘Don’t mention it,’ said the young man.
“别提了。”年轻人说道。

They shook hands. Mr. Kernan was hoisted on to the car and, while Mr. Power was giving directions to the carman, he expressed his gratitude to the young man and regretted that they could not have a little drink together.
他们握手了。克南先生被抬上车，鲍尔先生一边给车夫指路，一边向年轻人表达了谢意，并对他们不能一起喝点酒感到遗憾。

‘Another time,’ said the young man.
“还有一次，”年轻人说道。

The car drove off towards Westmoreland Street. As it passed Ballast Office the clock showed half-past nine. A keen east wind hit them, blowing from the mouth of the river. Mr. Kernan was huddled together with cold. His friend asked him to tell how the accident had happened.
汽车向威斯特摩兰街驶去。经过镇流器办公室时，时钟显示九点半。一阵凛冽的东风从河口吹来，向他们袭来。克南先生冻得挤在一起。他的朋友请他讲述事故是如何发生的。

‘I’an’t ‘an,’ he answered, ‘‘y ‘ongue is hurt.’
“我不是，”他回答道，“你的舌头受伤了。”

‘Show.’
'展示。'

The other leaned over the well of the car and peered into Mr. Kernan’s mouth but he could not see. He struck a match and, sheltering it in the shell of his hands, peered again into the mouth which Mr. Kernan opened obediently. The swaying movement of the car brought the match to and from the opened mouth. The lower teeth and gums were covered with clotted blood and a minute piece of the tongue seemed to have been bitten off. The match was blown out.
另一个人靠在车井上，凝视着克南先生的嘴，但他什么也看不见。他划了一根火柴，把它藏在手里，再次凝视着克南先生顺从地张开的嘴。汽车的摇晃使火柴在张开的嘴里来回移动。下牙和牙龈上布满了血块，舌头的一小块似乎被咬掉了。比赛被吹了。

‘That’s ugly,’ said Mr. Power.
“那太丑了，”鲍尔先生说。

‘Sha, ‘s nothing,’ said Mr. Kernan, closing his mouth and pulling the collar of his filthy coat across his neck.
“煞，没什么，”克南先生说，闭上嘴，把脏外套的领子拉到脖子上。

Mr. Kernan was a commercial traveller of the old school which believed in the dignity of its calling. He had never been seen in the city without a silk hat of some decency and a pair of gaiters. By grace of these two articles of clothing, he said, a man could always pass muster. He carried on the tradition of his Napoleon, the great Blackwhite, whose memory he evoked at times by legend and mimicry. Modern business methods had spared him only so far as to allow him a little office in Crowe Street, on the window blind of which was written the name of his firm with the address—London, E. C. On the mantelpiece of this little office a little leaden battalion of canisters was drawn up and on the table before the window stood four or five china bowls which were usually half full of a black liquid. From these bowls Mr. Kernan tasted tea. He took a mouthful, drew it up, saturated his palate with it and then spat it forth into the grate. Then he paused to judge.
克南先生是一位守旧派的商业旅行者，他相信自己职业的尊严。在这座城市里，人们从来没有见过他不戴一顶得体的丝质帽子和一双绑腿。他说，凭借这两件衣服，一个人总能通过考验。他继承了伟大的黑白人拿破仑的传统，有时通过传说和模仿来唤起人们的记忆。现代商业方法只让他在克罗街有一个小办公室，百叶窗上写着他公司的名称和地址——伦敦，E.C.。这个小办公室的壁炉架上有一点铅灰色。一排罐子摆好了，窗前的桌子上放着四五个瓷碗，里面通常装着半满的黑色液体。克南先生用这些碗品尝了茶。他喝了一口，舀起来，浸透上颚，然后吐到炉栅里。然后他停下来做出判断。

Mr. Power, a much younger man, was employed in the Royal Irish Constabulary Office in Dublin Castle. The arc of his social rise intersected the arc of his friend’s decline, but Mr. Kernan’s decline was mitigated by the fact that certain of those friends who had known him at his highest point of success still esteemed him as a character. Mr. Power was one of these friends. His inexplicable debts were a byword in his circle; he was a debonair young man.
鲍尔先生年轻得多，受雇于都柏林城堡的爱尔兰皇家警察办公室。他的社会地位上升的弧线与他朋友的衰落的弧线相交，但克南先生的衰落因以下事实而得到缓解：某些在他成功的最高点认识他的朋友仍然尊重他的性格。鲍尔先生就是这些朋友之一。他莫名其妙的债务在他的圈子里成了一个笑话。他是一个温文尔雅的年轻人。

The car halted before a small house on the Glasnevin road and Mr. Kernan was helped into the house. His wife put him to bed while Mr. Power sat downstairs in the kitchen asking the children where they went to school and what book they were in. The children— two girls and a boy, conscious of their father helplessness and of their mother’s absence, began some horseplay with him. He was surprised at their manners and at their accents, and his brow grew thoughtful. After a while Mrs. Kernan entered the kitchen, exclaiming:
汽车停在格拉斯内文路上的一栋小房子前，克南先生被搀扶进了房子。他的妻子让他上床睡觉，而鲍尔先生则坐在楼下的厨房里，询问孩子们在哪里上学，在读什么书。孩子们——两个女孩和一个男孩，意识到父亲的无助和母亲的缺席，开始和他打闹。他对他们的举止和口音感到惊讶，他的眉头变得若有所思。过了一会儿，克南太太走进厨房，大声说道：

‘Such a sight! O, he’ll do for himself one day and that’s the holy alls of it. He’s been drinking since Friday.’
” 真是这样的景象！哦，有一天他会为自己做的，这就是一切的神圣意义。他从周五开始就开始喝酒了。”

Mr. Power was careful to explain to her that he was not responsible, that he had come on the scene by the merest accident. Mrs. Kernan, remembering Mr. Power’s good offices during domestic quarrels, as well as many small, but opportune loans, said:
鲍尔先生小心翼翼地向她解释说，他不负有任何责任，他只是偶然来到现场的。克南夫人回忆起鲍尔先生在国内争吵期间的斡旋，以及许多小额但适时的贷款，她说：

‘O, you needn’t tell me that, Mr. Power. I know you’re a friend of his, not like some of the others he does be with. They’re all right so long as he has money in his pocket to keep him out from his wife and family. Nice friends! Who was he with tonight, I’d like to know?’
“噢，你不必告诉我这个，鲍尔先生。我知道你是他的朋友，不像他身边的其他一些人。只要他口袋里有钱，不让他接触妻子和家人，他们就可以了。好朋友！我想知道今晚他和谁在一起？

Mr. Power shook his head but said nothing.
鲍尔先生摇摇头，但什么也没说。

‘I’m so sorry,’ she continued, ‘that I’ve nothing in the house to offer you. But if you wait a minute I’ll send round to Fogarty’s, at the corner.’
“我很抱歉，”她继续说道，“我家里没有什么可以给你的。”但如果你等一下，我会派人去街角的福格蒂店。”

Mr. Power stood up.
鲍尔先生站了起来。

‘We were waiting for him to come home with the money. He never seems to think he has a home at all.’
“我们正在等他带着钱回家。他似乎从来不认为自己有一个家。”

‘O, now, Mrs. Kernan,’ said Mr. Power, ‘we’ll make him turn over a new leaf. I’ll talk to Martin. He’s the man. We’ll come here one of these nights and talk it over.’
“哦，现在，克南夫人，”鲍尔先生说，“我们会让他改过自新。”我会和马丁谈谈。他就是那个男人。我们有一天晚上会来这里讨论一下。

She saw him to the door. The carman was stamping up and down the footpath, and swinging his arms to warm himself.
她送他到门口。马车夫在人行道上跺着脚，摆动着双臂取暖。

‘It’s very kind of you to bring him home,’ she said.
“你把他带回家真是太好了，”她说。

‘Not at all,’ said Mr. Power.
“一点也不，”鲍尔先生说。

He got up on the car. As it drove off he raised his hat to her gaily.
他起身上了车。当车开走时，他高兴地向她举起帽子。

‘We’ll make a new man of him,’ he said. ‘Good-night, Mrs. Kernan.’
“我们会让他焕然一新，”他说。 “晚安，克南夫人。”

Mrs. Kernan’s puzzled eyes watched the car till it was out of sight. Then she withdrew them, went into the house and emptied her husband’s pockets.
克南夫人困惑的眼睛注视着那辆车，直到它消失在视线之外。然后她把它们收回来，走进屋子，掏空了丈夫的口袋。

She was an active, practical woman of middle age. Not long before she had celebrated her silver wedding and renewed her intimacy with her husband by waltzing with him to Mr. Power’s accompaniment. In her days of courtship, Mr. Kernan had seemed to her a not ungallant figure: and she still hurried to the chapel door whenever a wedding was reported and, seeing the bridal pair, recalled with vivid pleasure how she had passed out of the Star of the Sea Church in Sandymount, leaning on the arm of a jovial well-fed man, who was dressed smartly in a frock-coat and lavender trousers and carried a silk hat gracefully balanced upon his other arm. After three weeks she had found a wife’s life irksome and, later on, when she was beginning to find it unbearable, she had become a mother. The part of mother presented to her no insuperable difficulties and for twenty-five years she had kept house shrewdly for her husband. Her two eldest sons were launched. One was in a draper’s shop in Glasgow and the other was clerk to a teamerchant in Belfast. They were good sons, wrote regularly and sometimes sent home money. The other children were still at school.
她是一位活跃、务实的中年妇女。不久前，她庆祝了银婚，并在鲍尔先生的伴奏下与丈夫跳华尔兹，恢复了与丈夫的亲密关系。在她求爱的日子里，克南先生在她看来是一个不失风范的人物：每当有婚礼的消息传出时，她仍然会匆匆跑到教堂门口，看到这对新婚夫妇，生动地高兴地回忆起她是如何从星辰号出来的。桑迪蒙特海洋教堂的照片，靠在一个快乐、吃得饱饱的男人的手臂上，他穿着礼服外套和淡紫色长裤，另一只手臂上优雅地戴着一顶丝绸帽子。三周后，她发现妻子的生活令人厌烦，后来，当她开始觉得难以忍受时，她成了一名母亲。母亲的角色并没有给她带来不可克服的困难，二十五年来，她一直精明地为丈夫操持家务。她的两个大儿子被释放了。一个在格拉斯哥的一家布料店里，另一个在贝尔法斯特的一个团队商人那里工作。他们都是好儿子，定期写信，有时还寄钱回家。其他孩子还在上学。

Mr. Kernan sent a letter to his office next day and remained in bed. She made beef-tea for him and scolded him roundly. She accepted his frequent intemperance as part of the climate, healed him dutifully whenever he was sick and always tried to make him eat a breakfast. There were worse husbands. He had never been violent since the boys had grown up, and she knew that he would walk to the end of Thomas Street and back again to book even a small order.
第二天，克南先生给他的办公室写了一封信，然后就躺在床上了。她给他泡了牛肉茶，狠狠地训斥了他。她接受了他经常不节制的习惯，每当他生病时，她都会尽职尽责地为他治疗，并且总是尽力让他吃早餐。还有更糟糕的丈夫。自从孩子们长大后，他从未有过暴力行为，她知道他会走到托马斯街的尽头，然后再回来预订哪怕是一个小订单。

Two nights after, his friends came to see him. She brought them up to his bedroom, the air of which was impregnated with a personal odour, and gave them chairs at the fire. Mr. Kernan’s tongue, the occasional stinging pain of which had made him somewhat irritable during the day, became more polite. He sat propped up in the bed by pillows and the little colour in his puffy cheeks made them resemble warm cinders. He apologised to his guests for the disorder of the room, but at the same time looked at them a little proudly, with a veteran’s pride.
两天后的晚上，他的朋友来看望他。她把他们带到他的卧室，那里的空气中充满了个人的气味，并给他们在火炉旁放了椅子。克南先生的舌头，白天偶尔的刺痛让他有些烦躁，现在变得更有礼貌了。他靠着枕头坐在床上，浮肿的脸颊上的一点颜色使它们看起来像温暖的煤渣。他为房间里的混乱向客人们道歉，但同时又有些骄傲地看着他们，带着老兵的骄傲。

He was quite unconscious that he was the victim of a plot which his friends, Mr. Cunningham, Mr. M’Coy and Mr. Power had disclosed to Mrs. Kernan in the parlour. The idea been Mr. Power’s, but its development was entrusted to Mr. Cunningham. Mr. Kernan came of Protestant stock and, though he had been converted to the Catholic faith at the time of his marriage, he had not been in the pale of the Church for twenty years. He was fond, moreover, of giving side-thrusts at Catholicism.
他完全没有意识到自己是一个阴谋的受害者，他的朋友坎宁安先生、麦考伊先生和鲍尔先生在客厅里向克南太太透露了这一阴谋。这个想法是鲍尔先生的，但它的开发委托给了坎宁安先生。克南先生出身新教，尽管他在结婚时已皈依天主教，但他已经二十年没有受到教会的关注了。此外，他还喜欢对天主教进行旁敲侧击。

Mr. Cunningham was the very man for such a case. He was an elder colleague of Mr. Power. His own domestic life was very happy. People had great sympathy with him, for it was known that he had married an unpresentable woman who was an incurable drunkard. He had set up house for her six times; and each time she had pawned the furniture on him.
坎宁安先生正是处理此类案件的最佳人选。他是鲍尔先生的一位年长的同事。他自己的家庭生活非常幸福。人们对他非常同情，因为众所周知，他娶了一个不起眼的女人，而且还是一个不可救药的酒鬼。他曾六次为她安家；每次她都把家具典当给他。

Everyone had respect for poor Martin Cunningham. He was a thoroughly sensible man, influential and intelligent. His blade of human knowledge, natural astuteness particularised by long association with cases in the police courts, had been tempered by brief immersions in the waters of general philosophy. He was well informed. His friends bowed to his opinions and considered that his face was like Shakespeare’s.
每个人都尊重可怜的马丁·坎宁安。他是一个非常明智的人，有影响力且聪明。他的人类知识之刃，由于长期与警察法庭案件的联系而特别具有天生的敏锐性，由于短暂沉浸在一般哲学的水中而得到锻炼。他消息灵通。他的朋友们屈服于他的意见，认为他的脸就像莎士比亚的脸。

When the plot had been disclosed to her, Mrs. Kernan had said:
当阴谋被透露给她时，克南夫人说道：

‘I leave it all in your hands, Mr. Cunningham.’
“我把一切都交给你了，坎宁安先生。”

After a quarter of a century of married life, she had very few illusions left. Religion for her was a habit, and she suspected that a man of her husband’s age would not change greatly before death. She was tempted to see a curious appropriateness in his accident and, but that she did not wish to seem bloody-minded, would have told the gentlemen that Mr. Kernan’s tongue would not suffer by being shortened. However, Mr. Cunningham was a capable man; and religion was religion. The scheme might do good and, at least, it could do no harm. Her beliefs were not extravagant. She believed steadily in the Sacred Heart as the most generally useful of all Catholic devotions and approved of the sacraments. Her faith was bounded by her kitchen, but, if she was put to it, she could believe also in the banshee and in the Holy Ghost.
经过四分之一个世纪的婚姻生活，她已经没有什么幻想了。宗教对她来说是一种习惯，她怀疑像她丈夫这个年纪的男人在死前不会有太大的改变。她很想在他的事故中看到一种奇怪的恰当性，但她不想显得心胸狭窄，所以她会告诉先生们，克南先生的舌头不会因为被缩短而受到影响。然而，坎宁安先生是一个有能力的人。宗教就是宗教。该计划可能会带来好处，而且至少不会造成任何坏处。她的信仰并不奢侈。她坚信圣心是所有天主教信仰中最普遍有用的，并认可圣礼。她的信仰受到厨房的限制，但是，如果她投入其中，她也可以相信女妖和圣灵。

The gentlemen began to talk of the accident. Mr. Cunningham said that he had once known a similar case. A man of seventy had bitten off a piece of his tongue during an epileptic fit and the tongue had filled in again, so that no one could see a trace of the bite.
先生们开始谈论这次事故。坎宁安先生说，他曾经听说过一个类似的案例。一名七十岁的男子在癫痫发作时咬掉了一块舌头，舌头又长满了，所以没有人能看到被咬的痕迹。

‘Well, I’m not seventy,’ said the invalid.
“好吧，我还不到七十岁，”病人说。

‘God forbid,’ said Mr. Cunningham.
“上帝禁止，”坎宁安先生说。

‘It doesn’t pain you now?’ asked Mr. M’Coy.
“现在你不疼了吗？”麦考伊先生问道。

Mr. M’Coy had been at one time a tenor of some reputation. His wife, who had been a soprano, still taught young children to play the piano at low terms. His line of life had not been the shortest distance between two points and for short periods he had been driven to live by his wits. He had been a clerk in the Midland Railway, a canvasser for advertisements for The Irish Times and for The Freeman’s Journal, a town traveller for a coal firm on commission, a private inquiry agent, a clerk in the office of the Sub-Sheriff, and he had recently become secretary to the City Coroner. His new office made him professionally interested in Mr. Kernan’s case.
麦考伊先生曾经是一位颇有名气的男高音。他的妻子曾是一位女高音，现在仍然低声教孩子们弹钢琴。他的生命线并不是两点之间的最短距离，在短时间内他只能依靠自己的智慧生活。他曾是米德兰铁路的职员、《爱尔兰时报》和《自由人日报》的广告推销员、一家煤炭公司的城镇旅行者、私人调查员、副警长办公室的职员、他最近成为市验尸官的秘书。他的新办公室使他对克南先生的案件产生了职业兴趣。

‘Pain? Not much,’ answered Mr. Kernan. ‘But it’s so sickening. I feel as if I wanted to retch off.’
'疼痛？不多，”克南先生回答道。 ‘但这太令人恶心了。我感觉好像我想干呕。

‘That’s the boose,’ said Mr. Cunningham firmly.
“就是这样，”坎宁安先生坚定地说。

‘No,’ said Mr. Kernan. ‘I think I caught cold on the car. There’s something keeps coming into my throat, phlegm or——‘
“不，”克南先生说。 “我想我在车上着凉了。有东西一直进我的喉咙，痰或者——”

‘Mucus.’ said Mr. M’Coy.
“粘液。”麦考伊先生说。

‘It keeps coming like from down in my throat; sickening.’
“它不断地从我的喉咙里涌出来；令人作呕。’

‘Yes, yes,’ said Mr. M’Coy, ‘that’s the thorax.’
“是的，是的，”麦考伊先生说，“那就是胸部。”

He looked at Mr. Cunningham and Mr. Power at the same time with an air of challenge. Mr. Cunningham nodded his head rapidly and Mr. Power said:
他带着挑战的神情同时看着坎宁安先生和鲍尔先生。坎宁安先生迅速地点点头，鲍尔先生说道：

‘Ah, well, all’s well that ends well.’
“啊，好吧，一切都好，结局好。”

‘I’m very much obliged to you, old man,’ said the invalid.
“我非常感谢你，老人，”病人说。

Mr. Power waved his hand.
鲍尔先生挥了挥手。

‘Those other two fellows I was with——‘
“和我在一起的另外两个人——”

‘Who were you with?’ asked Mr. Cunningham.
“你和谁在一起？”坎宁安先生问道。

‘A chap. I don’t know his name. Damn it now, what’s his name? Little chap with sandy hair....’
‘一个小伙子。我不知道他的名字。该死的，他叫什么名字？沙色头发的小伙子……”

‘And who else?’
“还有谁呢？”

‘Harford.’
“哈福德。”

‘Hm,’ said Mr. Cunningham.
“嗯，”坎宁安先生说。

When Mr. Cunningham made that remark, people were silent. It was known that the speaker had secret sources of information. In this case the monosyllable had a moral intention. Mr. Harford sometimes formed one of a little detachment which left the city shortly after noon on Sunday with the purpose of arriving as soon as possible at some public-house on the outskirts of the city where its members duly qualified themselves as bona fide travellers. But his fellow-travellers had never consented to overlook his origin. He had begun life as an obscure financier by lending small sums of money to workmen at usurious interest. Later on he had become the partner of a very fat, short gentleman, Mr. Goldberg, in the Liffey Loan Bank. Though he had never embraced more than the Jewish ethical code, his fellow-Catholics, whenever they had smarted in person or by proxy under his exactions, spoke of him bitterly as an Irish Jew and an illiterate, and saw divine disapproval of usury made manifest through the person of his idiot son. At other times they remembered his good points.
当坎宁安先生说出这句话时，人们都沉默了。众所周知，演讲者拥有秘密信息来源。在这种情况下，单音节词具有道德意图。哈福德先生有时会组成一支小分队，在周日中午过后不久离开这座城市，目的是尽快到达市郊的一家酒馆，在那里，其成员正式证明自己是真正的旅行者。但他的旅伴们从未同意忽视他的出身。他最初是一名默默无闻的金融家，以高利贷方式向工人借出小额资金。后来，他成为利菲贷款银行一位又胖又矮的绅士戈德堡先生的合伙人。尽管他从来没有接受过犹太道德准则以外的东西，但他的天主教徒们，每当他们亲自或通过代理人在他的勒索下感到痛苦时，都会痛苦地谈论他是爱尔兰犹太人和文盲，并看到神圣的对高利贷的反对表现得淋漓尽致。通过他的白痴儿子这个人。有时他们会想起他的优点。

‘I wonder where did he go to,’ said Mr. Kernan.
“我想知道他去了哪里，”克南先生说。

He wished the details of the incident to remain vague. He wished his friends to think there had been some mistake, that Mr. Harford and he had missed each other. His friends, who knew quite well Mr. Harford’s manners in drinking were silent. Mr. Power said again:
他希望事件的细节保持模糊。他希望他的朋友们认为这是一个错误，哈福德先生和他错过了彼此。他的朋友们都很了解哈福德先生的饮酒习惯，但都沉默了。鲍尔先生再次说道：

‘All’s well that ends well.’
“一切都好，结局好。”

Mr. Kernan changed the subject at once.
克南先生立刻改变了话题。

‘That was a decent young chap, that medical fellow,’ he said. ‘Only for him——‘
“那个医生是个正派的年轻小伙子，”他说。 “只为他——”

‘O, only for him,’ said Mr. Power, ‘it might have been a case of seven days, without the option of a fine.’
“哦，仅对他来说，”鲍尔先生说，“可能会被关上 7 天，而且不能选择罚款。”

‘Yes, yes,’ said Mr. Kernan, trying to remember. ‘I remember now there was a policeman. Decent young fellow, he seemed. How did it happen at all?’
“是的，是的，”克南先生说道，努力回忆着。 “我现在记得有一名警察。他看上去是个正派的年轻人。这是怎么发生的？

‘It happened that you were peloothered, Tom,’ said Mr. Cunningham gravely.
“汤姆，你碰巧被骗了，”坎宁安先生严肃地说。

‘True bill,’ said Mr. Kernan, equally gravely.
“真正的账单，”克南先生同样严肃地说。

‘I suppose you squared the constable, Jack,’ said Mr. M’Coy.
“我想你已经和警官摆平了，杰克，”麦考伊先生说。

Mr. Power did not relish the use of his Christian name. He was not straight-laced, but he could not forget that Mr. M’Coy had recently made a crusade in search of valises and portmanteaus to enable Mrs. M’Coy to fulfil imaginary engagements in the country. More than he resented the fact that he had been victimised he resented such low playing of the game. He answered the question, therefore, as if Mr. Kernan had asked it.
鲍尔先生不喜欢使用他的教名。他并不拘谨，但他不能忘记，麦考伊先生最近大肆寻找手提箱和旅行箱，以使麦考伊夫人能够在乡下完成想象中的任务。他不仅对自己成为受害者感到不满，还对这场比赛的表现如此低下表示不满。因此，他回答了这个问题，就好像克南先生问过一样。

The narrative made Mr. Kernan indignant. He was keenly conscious of his citizenship, wished to live with his city on terms mutually honourable and resented any affront put upon him by those whom he called country bumpkins.
这个叙述让克南先生感到愤慨。他强烈地意识到自己的公民身份，希望以相互尊重的方式与他的城市生活在一起，并憎恨那些被他称为乡巴佬的人对他的任何侮辱。

‘Is this what we pay rates for?’ he asked. ‘To feed and clothe these ignorant bostooms... and they’re nothing else.’
“这就是我们支付费用的原因吗？”他问道。 “为了这些无知的胸部提供食物和衣服……他们什么也不是。”

Mr. Cunningham laughed. He was a Castle official only during office hours.
坎宁安先生笑了。他只在办公时间担任城堡官员。

‘How could they be anything else, Tom?’ he said.
“它们怎么可能是别的东西，汤姆？”他说。

He assumed a thick, provincial accent and said in a tone of command:
他带着浓重的乡下口音，用命令的语气说道：

‘65, catch your cabbage!’
“65，抓住你的卷心菜！”

Everyone laughed. Mr. M’Coy, who wanted to enter the conversation by any door, pretended that he had never heard the story. Mr. Cunningham said:
大家都笑了。麦考伊先生想从任何一扇门进入谈话，假装他从未听说过这个故事。坎宁安先生说：

‘It is supposed—they say, you know—to take place in the depot where they get these thundering big country fellows, omadhauns, you know, to drill. The sergeant makes them stand in a row against the wall and hold up their plates.’
‘他们说，你知道，这应该是在一个仓库里进行，他们让这些雷鸣般的大国家伙，奥马德豪恩，你知道，在那里进行训练。中士让他们靠墙站成一排，并举起盘子。”

He illustrated the story by grotesque gestures.
他用怪诞的手势来说明这个故事。

‘At dinner, you know. Then he has a bloody big bowl of cabbage before him on the table and a bloody big spoon like a shovel. He takes up a wad of cabbage on the spoon and pegs it across the room and the poor devils have to try and catch it on their plates: 65, catch your cabbage.’
“晚餐时，你知道。然后他面前的桌子上摆着一大碗该死的卷心菜，还有一把像铲子一样的该死的大勺子。他用勺子夹起一团卷心菜，把它钉在房间的另一边，可怜的家伙们必须试着把它接在盘子里：65，接住你的卷心菜。

Everyone laughed again: but Mr. Kernan was somewhat indignant still. He talked of writing a letter to the papers.
大家又笑了，但克南先生还是有些愤慨。他谈到给报纸写一封信。

‘These yahoos coming up here,’ he said, ‘think they can boss the people. I needn’t tell you, Martin, what kind of men they are.’
他说，这些雅虎来到这里，认为他们可以指挥人民。我不需要告诉你，马丁，他们是什么样的人。

Mr. Cunningham gave a qualified assent.
坎宁安先生表示有条件的同意。

‘It’s like everything else in this world,’ he said. ‘You get some bad ones and you get some good ones.’
“这就像这个世界上的其他一切一样，”他说。 “你会得到一些坏的，也会得到一些好的。”

‘O yes, you get some good ones, I admit,’ said Mr. Kernan, satisfied.
“哦，是的，我承认，你得到了一些好东西，”克南先生满意地说。

‘It’s better to have nothing to say to them,’ said Mr. M’Coy. ‘That’s my opinion!’
“最好对他们无话可说，”麦考伊先生说。 “这就是我的意见！”

Mrs. Kernan entered the room and, placing a tray on the table, said:
克南夫人走进房间，把一个托盘放在桌子上，说道：

‘Help yourselves, gentlemen.’
“请自助，先生们。”

Mr. Power stood up to officiate, offering her his chair. She declined it, saying she was ironing downstairs, and, after having exchanged a nod with Mr. Cunningham behind Mr. Power’s back, prepared to leave the room. Her husband called out to her:
鲍尔先生起身主持仪式，将椅子让给了她。她拒绝了，说她正在楼下熨衣服，背着鲍尔先生与坎宁安先生点了点头后，准备离开房间。她的丈夫对她喊道：

‘And have you nothing for me, duckie?’
“你有什么东西可以给我吗，鸭子？”

‘O, you! The back of my hand to you!’ said Mrs. Kernan tartly.
‘噢，你！ “我的手背给你！”克南太太尖刻地说。

Her husband called after her:
她的丈夫在她身后喊道：

‘Nothing for poor little hubby!’
“可怜的小丈夫什么也没有！”

He assumed such a comical face and voice that the distribution of the bottles of stout took place amid general merriment.
他的表情和声音都那么滑稽，以至于在大家的欢乐声中分发了几瓶烈性黑啤酒。

The gentlemen drank from their glasses, set the glasses again on the table and paused. Then Mr. Cunningham turned towards Mr. Power and said casually:
先生们喝完了杯子里的酒，把杯子重新放在桌子上，然后停了下来。然后坎宁安先生转向鲍尔先生，漫不经心地说：

‘On Thursday night, you said, Jack ‘
“周四晚上，你说，杰克”

‘Thursday, yes,’ said Mr. Power.
“星期四，是的，”鲍尔先生说。

‘Righto!’ said Mr. Cunningham promptly.
“没错！”坎宁安先生立即说道。

‘We can meet in M’Auley’s,’ said Mr. M’Coy. ‘That’ll be the most convenient place.’
“我们可以在莫利店见面，”麦考伊先生说。 “那将是最方便的地方。”

‘But we mustn’t be late,’ said Mr. Power earnestly, ‘because it is sure to be crammed to the doors.’
“但是我们不能迟到，”鲍尔先生认真地说，“因为门口肯定会挤满人。”

‘We can meet at half-seven,’ said Mr. M’Coy.
“我们可以在七点半见面，”麦考伊先生说。

‘Righto!’ said Mr. Cunningham.
“没错！”坎宁安先生说。

‘Half-seven at M’Auley’s be it!’
“就在莫利七点半吧！”

There was a short silence. Mr. Kernan waited to see whether he would be taken into his friends’ confidence. Then he asked:
一阵短暂的沉默。克南先生等着看朋友们是否会信任他。然后他问道：

‘What’s in the wind?’
“风里有什么？”

‘O, it’s nothing,’ said Mr. Cunningham. ‘It’s only a little matter that we’re arranging about for Thursday.’
“哦，没什么，”坎宁安先生说。 “我们周四安排的只是一件小事。”

‘The opera, is it?’ said Mr. Kernan.
“歌剧，是吗？”克南先生说。

‘No, no,’ said Mr. Cunningham in an evasive tone, ‘it’s just a little... spiritual matter.’
“不，不，”坎宁安先生用回避的语气说道，“这只是一点……精神问题。”

‘0,’ said Mr. Kernan.
“0，”克南先生说。

There was silence again. Then Mr. Power said, point blank:
又是一片寂静。然后鲍尔先生直截了当地说道：

‘To tell you the truth, Tom, we’re going to make a retreat.’
“说实话，汤姆，我们要撤退了。”

‘Yes, that’s it,’ said Mr. Cunningham, ‘Jack and I and M’Coy here —we’re all going to wash the pot.’
“是的，就是这样，”坎宁安先生说，“杰克、我和麦考伊在这儿——我们都要洗锅。”

He uttered the metaphor with a certain homely energy and, encouraged by his own voice, proceeded:
他用一种平易近人的能量说出了这个比喻，并在自己声音的鼓励下继续说道：

‘You see, we may as well all admit we’re a nice collection of scoundrels, one and all. I say, one and all,’ he added with gruff charity and turning to Mr. Power. ‘Own up now!’
‘你看，我们不妨都承认我们是一群无赖，一无是处。我说，总而言之，”他粗声粗气地补充道，然后转向鲍尔先生。 “现在就承认吧！”

‘I own up,’ said Mr. Power.
“我承认，”鲍尔先生说。

‘And I own up,’ said Mr. M’Coy.
“我承认了，”麦考伊先生说。

‘So we’re going to wash the pot together,’ said Mr. Cunningham.
“所以我们要一起洗锅，”坎宁安先生说。

A thought seemed to strike him. He turned suddenly to the invalid and said:
他似乎想到了一个念头。他突然转向病人说：

‘D’ye know what, Tom, has just occurred to me? You night join in and we’d have a four-handed reel.’
‘汤姆，你知道我刚刚想到了什么吗？你晚上加入，我们就有一个四手卷轴。

‘Good idea,’ said Mr. Power. ‘The four of us together.’
“好主意，”鲍尔先生说。 “我们四个人在一起。”

Mr. Kernan was silent. The proposal conveyed very little meaning to his mind, but, understanding that some spiritual agencies were about to concern themselves on his behalf, he thought he owed it to his dignity to show a stiff neck. He took no part in the conversation for a long while, but listened, with an air of calm enmity, while his friends discussed the Jesuits.
克南先生沉默了。这个提议对他来说没有什么意义，但是，他明白一些精神机构即将为他担心，因此他认为为了自己的尊严，他应该表现出僵硬的态度。当他的朋友们讨论耶稣会士时，他很长一段时间没有参与谈话，而是以一种平静的敌意的态度听着。

‘I haven’t such a bad opinion of the Jesuits,’ he said, intervening at length. ‘They’re an educated order. I believe they mean well, too.’
“我对耶稣会士的看法还不错，”他最后插话说道。 ‘他们是受过教育的秩序。我相信他们也是善意的。”

‘They’re the grandest order in the Church, Tom,’ said Mr. Cunningham, with enthusiasm. ‘The General of the Jesuits stands next to the Pope.’
“他们是教会中最盛大的教团，汤姆，”坎宁安先生热情地说。 “耶稣会总会长站在教皇旁边。”

‘There’s no mistake about it,’ said Mr. M’Coy, ‘if you want a thing well done and no flies about, you go to a Jesuit. They’re the boyos have influence. I’ll tell you a case in point....’
“这没有错，”麦考伊先生说，“如果你想要把事情做好并且没有苍蝇，你就去找耶稣会士。他们是有影响力的男孩。我给你讲一个具体的例子……”

‘The Jesuits are a fine body of men,’ said Mr. Power.
“耶稣会士是一群优秀的人，”鲍尔先生说。

‘It’s a curious thing,’ said Mr. Cunningham, ‘about the Jesuit Order. Every other order of the Church had to be reformed at some time or other but the Jesuit Order was never once reformed. It never fell away.’
“关于耶稣会，”坎宁安先生说，“这是一件奇怪的事情。”教会的所有其他修会都必须在某个时候进行改革，但耶稣会从未进行过改革。它从未消失。

‘Is that so?’ asked Mr. M’Coy.
“是这样吗？”麦考伊先生问道。

‘That’s a fact,’ said Mr. Cunningham. ‘That’s history.’
“这是事实，”坎宁安先生说。 “那是历史。”

‘Look at their church, too,’ said Mr. Power. ‘Look at the congregation they have.’
“也看看他们的教堂，”鲍尔先生说。 “看看他们的会众。”

‘The Jesuits cater for the upper classes,’ said Mr. M’Coy.
“耶稣会士是为上层阶级服务的，”麦考伊先生说。

‘Of course,’ said Mr. Power.
“当然，”鲍尔先生说。

‘Yes,’ said Mr. Kernan. ‘That’s why I have a feeling for them. It’s some of those secular priests, ignorant, bumptious——‘
“是的，”克南先生说。 ‘这就是为什么我对他们有感觉。是一些世俗的牧师，无知，傲慢——’

‘They’re all good men,’ said Mr. Cunningham, ‘each in his own way. The Irish priesthood is honoured all the world over.’
“他们都是好人，”坎宁安先生说，“每个人都有自己的方式。”爱尔兰的神职人员在全世界都受到尊重。

‘O yes,’ said Mr. Power.
“哦，是的，”鲍尔先生说。

‘Not like some of the other priesthoods on the continent,’ said Mr. M’Coy, ‘unworthy of the name.’
“不像非洲大陆上的其他一些神职人员，”麦考伊先生说，“名不副实。”

‘Perhaps you’re right,’ said Mr. Kernan, relenting.
“也许你是对的，”克南先生态度软化了。

‘Of course I’m right,’ said Mr. Cunningham. ‘I haven’t been in the world all this time and seen most sides of it without being a judge of character.’
“我当然是对的，”坎宁安先生说。 “我来到这个世界这么久，也没有见过这个世界的大部分方面，而没有对性格进行判断。”

The gentlemen drank again, one following another’s example. Mr. Kernan seemed to be weighing something in his mind. He was impressed. He had a high opinion of Mr. Cunningham as a judge of character and as a reader of faces. He asked for particulars.
先生们又一饮而尽，纷纷效仿。克南先生心里似乎在权衡着什么。他很感动。他对坎宁安先生评价很高，认为他善于判断性格，善于观察面孔。他询问详情。

‘O, it’s just a retreat, you know,’ said Mr. Cunningham. ‘Father Purdon is giving it. It’s for business men, you know.’
“哦，这只是一个撤退，你知道，”坎宁安先生说。 ‘普登神父正在给予它。你知道，这是为商人准备的。

‘He won’t be too hard on us, Tom,’ said Mr. Power persuasively.
“他不会对我们太严厉，汤姆，”鲍尔先生很有说服力地说。

‘Father Purdon? Father Purdon?’ said the invalid.
“普登神父？普登神父？”病人问道。

‘O, you must know him, Tom,’ said Mr. Cunningham stoutly. ‘Fine, jolly fellow! He’s a man of the world like ourselves.’
“哦，你一定认识他，汤姆，”坎宁安先生坚定地说。 ‘好吧，快乐的家伙！他和我们一样都是一个懂得世界的人。

‘Ah,... yes. I think I know him. Rather red face; tall.’
'是啊。我想我认识他。脸比较红；高的。'

‘That’s the man.’
“就是那个男人。”

‘And tell me, Martin.... Is he a good preacher?’
“告诉我，马丁……他是个好传教士吗？”

‘Munno.... It’s not exactly a sermon, you know. It’s just kind of a friendly talk, you know, in a common-sense way.’
“嗯……这不完全是一次布道，你知道。这只是一种友好的谈话，你知道，以常识的方式。

Mr. Kernan deliberated. Mr. M’Coy said:
克南先生沉思着。麦考伊先生说：

‘Father Tom Burke, that was the boy!’
“汤姆·伯克神父，就是那个男孩！”

‘O, Father Tom Burke,’ said Mr. Cunningham, ‘that was a born orator. Did you ever hear him, Tom?’
“噢，汤姆·伯克神父，”坎宁安先生说，“他是一位天生的演说家。汤姆，你听过他的话吗？

‘Did I ever hear him!’ said the invalid, nettled. ‘Rather! I heard him....’
“我听过他的话吗？”病人恼怒地说。 '相当！我听到他的声音……”

‘And yet they say he wasn’t much of a theologian,’ said Mr Cunningham.
“然而他们说他算不上是一位神学家，”坎宁安先生说。

‘Is that so?’ said Mr. M’Coy.
“是这样吗？”麦考伊先生说。

‘O, of course, nothing wrong, you know. Only sometimes, they say, he didn’t preach what was quite orthodox.’
‘哦，当然，没有什么问题，你知道。他们说，只是有时他没有宣扬正统的东西。

‘Ah!... he was a splendid man,’ said Mr. M’Coy.
“啊！……他是一个了不起的人，”麦考伊先生说。

‘I heard him once,’ Mr. Kernan continued. ‘I forget the subject of his discourse now. Crofton and I were in the back of the... pit, you know... the——‘
“我听过他一次，”克南先生继续说道。 “我现在忘记了他谈话的主题。克罗夫顿和我在……坑的后面，你知道……那个——”

‘The body,’ said Mr. Cunningham.
“尸体，”坎宁安先生说。

‘Yes, in the back near the door. I forget now what.... O yes, it was on the Pope, the late Pope. I remember it well. Upon my word it was magnificent, the style of the oratory. And his voice! God! hadn’t he a voice! The Prisoner of the Vatican, he called him. I remember Crofton saying to me when we came out——‘
“是的，在后面靠近门的地方。我现在忘记了什么……哦，是的，是关于教皇，已故的教皇。我记得很清楚。据我所知，演讲的风格非常宏伟。还有他的声音！上帝！他没有声音吗！他称他为梵蒂冈的囚徒。我记得我们出来时克罗夫顿对我说——‘

‘But he’s an Orangeman, Crofton, isn’t he?’ said Mr. Power.
“但他是一名橙人，克罗夫顿，不是吗？”鲍尔先生说。

‘‘Course he is,’ said Mr. Kernan, ‘and a damned decent Orangeman too. We went into Butler’s in Moore Street—faith, was genuinely moved, tell you the God’s truth—and I remember well his very words. Kernan, he said, we worship at different altars, he said, but our belief is the same. Struck me as very well put.’
“他当然是，”克南先生说，“而且还是一个非常正派的橙人。”我们走进摩尔街的巴特勒餐厅——信仰，被真诚地感动，告诉你上帝的真理——我清楚地记得他说的每一句话。克南，他说，我们在不同的祭坛上崇拜，但我们的信仰是一样的。说得很好，让我印象深刻。

‘There’s a good deal in that,’ said Mr. Power. ‘There used always be crowds of Protestants in the chapel where Father Tom was preaching.’
“这很重要，”鲍尔先生说。 “汤姆神父布道的教堂里过去总是聚集着一群新教徒。”

‘There’s not much difference between us,’ said Mr. M’Coy.
“我们之间没有太大区别，”麦考伊先生说。

‘We both believe in——‘
“我们都相信——”

He hesitated for a moment.
他犹豫了片刻。

‘... in the Redeemer. Only they don’t believe in the Pope and in the mother of God.’
‘……在救赎主里。只是他们不相信教皇和圣母。”

‘But, of course,’ said Mr. Cunningham quietly and effectively, ‘our religion is the religion, the old, original faith.’
“但是，当然，”坎宁安先生平静而有力地说，“我们的宗教就是宗教，古老而原始的信仰。”

‘Not a doubt of it,’ said Mr. Kernan warmly.
“毫无疑问，”克南先生热情地说。

Mrs. Kernan came to the door of the bedroom and announced:
克南夫人来到卧室门口宣布：

‘Here’s a visitor for you!’
“您有一位访客！”

‘Who is it?’
'是谁？'

‘Mr. Fogarty.’
'先生。福格蒂。”

‘O, come in! come in!’
‘哦，进来吧！进来！'

A pale, oval face came forward into the light. The arch of its fair trailing moustache was repeated in the fair eyebrows looped above pleasantly astonished eyes. Mr. Fogarty was a modest grocer. He had failed in business in a licensed house in the city because his financial condition had constrained him to tie himself to second-class distillers and brewers. He had opened a small shop on Glasnevin Road where, he flattered himself, his manners would ingratiate him with the housewives of the district. He bore himself with a certain grace, complimented little children and spoke with a neat enunciation. He was not without culture.
一张苍白的椭圆形脸出现在灯光下。金色的胡须呈拱形，金色的眉毛在令人愉悦、惊讶的眼睛上方形成一圈。福格蒂先生是一位谦虚的杂货商。他在城里一家有执照的酒厂做生意失败了，因为他的经济状况迫使他只能与二流的酿酒厂和啤酒厂联系在一起。他在格拉斯内文路开了一家小店，他自以为他的举止会赢得该地区家庭主妇的青睐。他举止优雅，称赞小孩子，说话吐字清晰。他并非没有文化。

Mr. Fogarty brought a gift with him, a half-pint of special whisky. He inquired politely for Mr. Kernan, placed his gift on the table and sat down with the company on equal terms. Mr. Kernan appreciated the gift all the more since he was aware that there was a small account for groceries unsettled between him and Mr. Fogarty. He said:
福格蒂先生带来了一份礼物，半品脱特制威士忌。他礼貌地询问了克南先生的情况，将礼物放在桌子上，然后与大家平等地坐下来。克南先生更加感激这份礼物，因为他知道他和福格蒂先生之间还有一小笔杂货账目尚未结算。他说：

‘I wouldn’t doubt you, old man. Open that, Jack, will you?’
“我不会怀疑你，老伙计。打开它，杰克，你愿意吗？

Mr. Power again officiated. Glasses were rinsed and five small measures of whisky were poured out. This new influence enlivened the conversation. Mr. Fogarty, sitting on a small area of the chair, was specially interested.
鲍尔先生再次主持。冲洗玻璃杯并倒出五小份威士忌。这种新的影响使谈话变得活跃起来。坐在椅子上一小块区域的福格蒂先生特别感兴趣。

‘Pope Leo XIII,’ said Mr. Cunningham, ‘was one of the lights of the age. His great idea, you know, was the union of the Latin and Greek Churches. That was the aim of his life.’
“教皇利奥十三世，”坎宁安先生说，“是那个时代的光芒之一。”你知道，他的伟大想法是拉丁教会和希腊教会的联合。这是他一生的目标。

‘I often heard he was one of the most intellectual men in Europe,’ said Mr. Power. ‘I mean, apart from his being Pope.’
“我经常听说他是欧洲最有智慧的人之一，”鲍尔先生说。 “我的意思是，除了他是教皇之外。”

‘So he was,’ said Mr. Cunningham, ‘if not the most so. His motto, you know, as Pope, was Lux upon Lux—Light upon Light.’
“确实如此，”坎宁安先生说，“即使不是最如此。”你知道，作为教皇，他的座右铭是“勒克斯上勒克斯”——“光上加光”。

‘No, no,’ said Mr. Fogarty eagerly. ‘I think you’re wrong there. It was Lux in Tenebris, I think—Light in Darkness.’
“不，不，”福格蒂先生急切地说。 ‘我认为你错了。我想那是特尼布里斯中的拉克丝——黑暗中的光明。

‘O yes,’ said Mr. M’Coy, ‘Tenebrae.’
“哦，是的，”麦考伊先生说，“Tenebrae。”

‘Allow me,’ said Mr. Cunningham positively, ‘it was Lux upon Lux. And Pius IX his predecessor’s motto was Crux upon Crux— that is, Cross upon Cross—to show the difference between their two pontificates.’
“请允许我，”坎宁安先生积极地说，“这是勒克斯之上的勒克斯。”他的前任庇护九世的座右铭是“十字架上的十字架”，即“十字架上的十字架”，以显示他们两位教皇之间的差异。

The inference was allowed. Mr. Cunningham continued.
这个推论被允许了。坎宁安先生继续说道。

‘Pope Leo, you know, was a great scholar and a poet.’
“你知道，教皇利奥是一位伟大的学者和诗人。”

‘He had a strong face,’ said Mr. Kernan.
“他有一张坚强的脸，”克南先生说。

‘Yes,’ said Mr. Cunningham. ‘He wrote Latin poetry.’
“是的，”坎宁安先生说。 “他写拉丁诗。”

‘Is that so?’ said Mr. Fogarty.
“是这样吗？”福格蒂先生说。

Mr. M’Coy tasted his whisky contentedly and shook his head with a double intention, saying:
麦考伊先生满意地品尝了威士忌，一脸双重意思地摇了摇头，说道：

‘That’s no joke, I can tell you.’
“我可以告诉你，这不是玩笑。”

‘We didn’t learn that, Tom,’ said Mr. Power, following Mr. M’Coy’s example, ‘when we went to the penny-a-week school.’
“汤姆，当我们去每周一便士的学校时，鲍尔先生效仿麦考伊先生的做法说道。”

‘There was many a good man went to the penny-a-week school with a sod of turf under his oxter,’ said Mr. Kernan sententiously. ‘The old system was the best: plain honest education. None of your modern trumpery....’
“有很多好人在上每周一便士的学校时，腋下都垫着一块草皮，”克南先生简洁地说。 “旧的制度是最好的：简单诚实的教育。没有你现代的王牌……”

‘Quite right,’ said Mr. Power.
“完全正确，”鲍尔先生说。

‘No superfluities,’ said Mr. Fogarty.
“没有多余的东西，”福格蒂先生说。

He enunciated the word and then drank gravely.
他念出这个词，然后严肃地喝了一口酒。

‘I remember reading,’ said Mr. Cunningham, ‘that one of Pope Leo’s poems was on the invention of the photograph—in Latin, of course.’
“我记得读过，”坎宁安先生说，“利奥教皇的一首诗是关于照片的发明的——当然是拉丁文的。”

‘On the photograph!’ exclaimed Mr. Kernan.
“在照片上！”克南先生喊道。

‘Yes,’ said Mr. Cunningham.
“是的，”坎宁安先生说。

He also drank from his glass.
他也用杯子喝了水。

‘Well, you know,’ said Mr. M’Coy, ‘isn’t the photograph wonderful when you come to think of it?’
“嗯，你知道，”麦考伊先生说，“你仔细想想这张照片是不是很棒？”

‘O, of course,’ said Mr. Power, ‘great minds can see things.’
“哦，当然，”鲍尔先生说，“伟大的头脑可以看到事物。”

‘As the poet says: Great minds are very near to madness,’ said Mr. Fogarty.
“正如诗人所说：伟大的思想非常接近疯狂，”福格蒂先生说。

Mr. Kernan seemed to be troubled in mind. He made an effort to recall the Protestant theology on some thorny points and in the end addressed Mr. Cunningham.
克南先生似乎心事重重。他努力回顾新教神学中的一些棘手问题，最后向坎宁安先生发表了讲话。

‘Tell me, Martin,’ he said. ‘Weren’t some of the popes—of course, not our present man, or his predecessor, but some of the old popes—not exactly ... you know... up to the knocker?’
“告诉我，马丁，”他说。 “不是有一些教皇——当然，不是我们现在的教皇，也不是他的前任，而是一些老教皇——不完全是……你知道……有能力吗？”

There was a silence. Mr. Cunningham said
一阵沉默。坎宁安先生说

‘O, of course, there were some bad lots... But the astonishing thing is this. Not one of them, not the biggest drunkard, not the most... out-and-out ruffian, not one of them ever preached ex cathedra a word of false doctrine. Now isn’t that an astonishing thing?’
‘噢，当然，也有一些不好的批次……但令人惊讶的是这个。他们中没有一个人，没有一个最大的酒鬼，没有一个最……不折不扣的流氓，没有一个人曾在大教堂里宣扬过任何错误的教义。这不是一件令人惊讶的事情吗？

‘That is,’ said Mr. Kernan.
“就是这样，”克南先生说。

‘Yes, because when the Pope speaks ex cathedra,’ Mr. Fogarty explained, ‘he is infallible.’
“是的，因为当教皇在大教堂里讲话时，”福格蒂先生解释道，“他是绝对正确的。”

‘Yes,’ said Mr. Cunningham.
“是的，”坎宁安先生说。

‘O, I know about the infallibility of the Pope. I remember I was younger then.... Or was it that——?’
‘哦，我知道教皇是绝对正确的。我记得那时我还年轻……或者是——？

Mr. Fogarty interrupted. He took up the bottle and helped the others to a little more. Mr. M’Coy, seeing that there was not enough to go round, pleaded that he had not finished his first measure. The others accepted under protest. The light music of whisky falling into glasses made an agreeable interlude.
福格蒂先生打断了我的话。他拿起瓶子，帮其他人又喝了一点。麦考伊先生看到没有足够的钱，就辩解说他还没有完成他的第一小节。其他人在抗议下接受了。威士忌倒入杯中的轻音乐，构成了一段愉快的插曲。

‘What’s that you were saying, Tom?’ asked Mr. M’Coy.
“汤姆，你刚才说什么？”麦考伊先生问道。

‘Papal infallibility,’ said Mr. Cunningham, ‘that was the greatest scene in the whole history of the Church.’
“教皇绝对正确，”坎宁安先生说，“这是整个教会历史上最伟大的一幕。”

‘How was that, Martin?’ asked Mr. Power.
“怎么样，马丁？”鲍尔先生问道。

Mr. Cunningham held up two thick fingers.
坎宁安先生举起两根粗大的手指。

‘In the sacred college, you know, of cardinals and archbishops and bishops there were two men who held out against it while the others were all for it. The whole conclave except these two was unanimous. No! They wouldn’t have it!’
“你知道，在神圣的学院里，红衣主教、大主教和主教中，有两个人坚决反对，而其他人则全都支持。除了这两个人之外，整个秘密会议都是一致的。不！他们不会拥有它！

‘Ha!’ said Mr. M’Coy.
“哈！”麦考伊先生说。

‘And they were a German cardinal by the name of Dolling... or Dowling... or——‘
“他们是一位德国红衣主教，名叫多林……或者道林……或者——”

‘Dowling was no German, and that’s a sure five,’ said Mr. Power, laughing.
“道林不是德国人，这肯定是五个，”鲍尔先生笑着说。

‘Well, this great German cardinal, whatever his name was, was one; and the other was John MacHale.’
“好吧，这位伟大的德国红衣主教，无论他叫什么名字，都是其中之一；另一个是约翰·麦克海尔。

‘What?’ cried Mr. Kernan. ‘Is it John of Tuam?’
“什么？”克南先生叫道。 “是图阿姆的约翰吗？”

‘Are you sure of that now?’ asked Mr. Fogarty dubiously. ‘I thought it was some Italian or American.’
“你现在确定了吗？”福格蒂先生怀疑地问。 “我以为是意大利或美国的。”

‘John of Tuam,’ repeated Mr. Cunningham, ‘was the man.’
“蒂阿姆的约翰，”坎宁安先生重复道，“就是那个人。”

He drank and the other gentlemen followed his lead. Then he resumed:
他喝了酒，其他先生也纷纷效仿。然后他继续说道：

‘There they were at it, all the cardinals and bishops and archbishops from all the ends of the earth and these two fighting dog and devil until at last the Pope himself stood up and declared infallibility a dogma of the Church ex cathedra. On the very moment John MacHale, who had been arguing and arguing against it, stood up and shouted out with the voice of a lion: ‘Credo!’’
“他们在那里，来自世界各地的所有红衣主教、主教和大主教，以及这两个战斗的狗和魔鬼，直到最后教皇本人站起来，宣布绝对正确是教会前教会的教条。就在这时，一直争论不休的约翰·麦克海尔站了起来，用狮子般的声音喊道：“信条！”

‘I believe!’ said Mr. Fogarty.
“我相信！”福格蒂先生说。

‘Credo!’ said Mr. Cunningham ‘That showed the faith he had. He submitted the moment the Pope spoke.’
“信条！”坎宁安先生说，“这表明了他的信念。”他在教皇讲话的那一刻就屈服了。

‘And what about Dowling?’ asked Mr. M’Coy.
“那么道林呢？”麦考伊先生问道。

‘The German cardinal wouldn’t submit. He left the church.’
“德国红衣主教不肯屈服。他离开了教堂。

Mr. Cunningham’s words had built up the vast image of the church in the minds of his hearers. His deep, raucous voice had thrilled them as it uttered the word of belief and submission. When Mrs. Kernan came into the room, drying her hands she came into a solemn company. She did not disturb the silence, but leaned over the rail at the foot of the bed.
坎宁安先生的话在听众心目中树立了教会的宏伟形象。当他说出信仰和服从的话语时，他低沉而沙哑的声音让他们兴奋不已。当克南夫人擦干双手走进房间时，她走进了一群庄严的人中。她没有打扰这片寂静，而是靠在床脚的栏杆上。

‘I once saw John MacHale,’ said Mr. Kernan, ‘and I’ll never forget it as long as I live.’
“我曾经见过约翰·麦克海尔，”克南先生说，“我一生都不会忘记。”

He turned towards his wife to be confirmed.
他转向妻子寻求确认。

‘I often told you that?’
“我经常这样告诉你吗？”

Mrs. Kernan nodded.
克南夫人点点头。

‘It was at the unveiling of Sir John Gray’s statue. Edmund Dwyer Gray was speaking, blathering away, and here was this old fellow, crabbed-looking old chap, looking at him from under his bushy eyebrows.’
“那是在约翰·格雷爵士的雕像揭幕仪式上。埃德蒙·德威尔·格雷正在说话，喋喋不休，而这个老家伙，看上去脾气暴躁，从浓密的眉毛下面看着他。

Mr. Kernan knitted his brows and, lowering his head like an angry bull, glared at his wife.
克南先生皱起眉头，像一头愤怒的公牛一样低下头，怒视着他的妻子。

‘God!’ he exclaimed, resuming his natural face, ‘I never saw such an eye in a man’s head. It was as much as to say: I have you properly taped, my lad. He had an eye like a hawk.’
“天哪！”他惊呼道，恢复了他原本的面容，“我从来没有在一个人的头上见过这样的眼睛。”这等于是在说：我已经把你录下来了，我的小伙子。他有一双像鹰一样的眼睛。

‘None of the Grays was any good,’ said Mr. Power.
“灰人没有一个是好人，”鲍尔先生说。

There was a pause again. Mr. Power turned to Mrs. Kernan and said with abrupt joviality:
又是一阵停顿。鲍尔先生转向克南夫人，突然高兴地说：

‘Well, Mrs. Kernan, we’re going to make your man here a good holy pious and God-fearing Roman Catholic.’
“好吧，克南夫人，我们会让你的男人成为一名虔诚、敬畏上帝的罗马天主教徒。”

He swept his arm round the company inclusively.
他用手臂包容了整个公司。

‘We’re all going to make a retreat together and confess our sins— and God knows we want it badly.’
“我们都会一起静修并承认我们的罪孽——上帝知道我们非常想要这样。”

‘I don’t mind,’ said Mr. Kernan, smiling a little nervously.
“我不介意，”克南先生有点紧张地微笑着说道。

Mrs. Kernan thought it would be wiser to conceal her satisfaction. So she said:
克南夫人认为隐藏自己的满足感更为明智。所以她说：

‘I pity the poor priest that has to listen to your tale.’
“我可怜那个可怜的牧师，他不得不听你的故事。”

Mr. Kernan’s expression changed.
克南先生的表情变了。

‘If he doesn’t like it,’ he said bluntly, ‘he can... do the other thing. I’ll just tell him my little tale of woe. I’m not such a bad fellow——‘
“如果他不喜欢，”他直言不讳地说，“他可以……做另一件事。”我就告诉他我的小悲惨故事。我不是个坏人——’

Mr. Cunningham intervened promptly.
坎宁安先生立即介入。

‘We’ll all renounce the devil,’ he said, ‘together, not forgetting his works and pomps.’
“我们都会一起抛弃魔鬼，”他说，“同时也不会忘记他的作为和盛况。”

‘Get behind me, Satan!’ said Mr. Fogarty, laughing and looking at the others.
“撒旦，退到我后面去！”福格蒂先生笑着看着其他人说道。

Mr. Power said nothing. He felt completely out-generalled. But a pleased expression flickered across his face.
鲍尔先生什么也没说。他感觉自己完全被排除在外了。但他的脸上却闪过一丝欣慰的表情。

‘All we have to do,’ said Mr. Cunningham, ‘is to stand up with lighted candles in our hands and renew our baptismal vows.’
“我们所要做的就是，”坎宁安先生说，“就是手持点燃的蜡烛站起来，重申我们的洗礼誓言。”

‘O, don’t forget the candle, Tom,’ said Mr. M’Coy, ‘whatever you do.’
“哦，汤姆，别忘了蜡烛，”麦考伊先生说，“无论你做什么。”

‘What?’ said Mr. Kernan. ‘Must I have a candle?’
“什么？”克南先生说。 “我必须有蜡烛吗？”

‘O yes,’ said Mr. Cunningham.
“哦，是的，”坎宁安先生说。

‘No, damn it all,’ said Mr. Kernan sensibly, ‘I draw the line there. I’ll do the job right enough. I’ll do the retreat business and confession, and... all that business. But... no candles! No, damn it all, I bar the candles!’
“不，该死的，”克南先生明智地说，“我在那里划清界限。”我会把工作做好的。我会做静修和忏悔，以及……所有这些事情。但是……没有蜡烛！不，该死的，我把蜡烛关掉了！

He shook his head with farcical gravity.
他严肃地摇摇头。

‘Listen to that!’ said his wife.
“听听！”他的妻子说。

‘I bar the candles,’ said Mr. Kernan, conscious of having created an effect on his audience and continuing to shake his head to and fro. ‘I bar the magic-lantern business.’
“我禁止蜡烛，”克南先生说道，他意识到自己对观众产生了影响，并继续来回摇头。 “我禁止魔灯生意。”

Everyone laughed heartily.
大家都开怀大笑。

‘There’s a nice Catholic for you!’ said his wife.
“有一个不错的天主教徒适合你！”他的妻子说。

‘No candles!’ repeated Mr. Kernan obdurately. ‘That’s off!’
“没有蜡烛！”克南先生固执地重复道。 “那不行了！”



The transept of the Jesuit Church in Gardiner Street was almost full; and still at every moment gentlemen entered from the side door and, directed by the lay-brother, walked on tiptoe along the aisles until they found seating accommodation. The gentlemen were all well dressed and orderly. The light of the lamps of the church fell upon an assembly of black clothes and white collars, relieved here and there by tweeds, on dark mottled pillars of green marble and on lugubrious canvases. The gentlemen sat in the benches, having hitched their trousers slightly above their knees and laid their hats in security. They sat well back and gazed formally at the distant speck of red light which was suspended before the high altar.
加德纳街耶稣会教堂的耳堂几乎挤满了人。仍然时不时地，绅士们从侧门进来，在外行修士的指挥下，踮起脚尖沿着过道走，直到找到座位。先生们个个衣冠楚楚，秩序井然。教堂的灯光照在一群黑衣服和白领子上，到处都用粗花呢布衬托，照在黑色斑驳的绿色大理石柱子上和忧郁的画布上。先生们坐在长凳上，把裤子拉到膝盖上方，把帽子安全地放好。他们坐在靠后的位置，正式凝视着远处悬浮在高高祭坛前的红光。

In one of the benches near the pulpit sat Mr. Cunningham and Mr. Kernan. In the bench behind sat Mr. M’Coy alone: and in the bench behind him sat Mr. Power and Mr. Fogarty. Mr. M’Coy had tried unsuccessfully to find a place in the bench with the others, and, when the party had settled down in the form of a quincunx, he had tried unsuccessfully to make comic remarks. As these had not been well received, he had desisted. Even he was sensible of the decorous atmosphere and even he began to respond to the religious stimulus. In a whisper, Mr. Cunningham drew Mr. Kernan’s attention to Mr. Harford, the moneylender, who sat some distance off, and to Mr. Fanning, the registration agent and mayor maker of the city, who was sitting immediately under the pulpit beside one of the newly elected councillors of the ward. To the right sat old Michael Grimes, the owner of three pawnbroker’s shops, and Dan Hogan’s nephew, who was up for the job in the Town Clerk’s office. Farther in front sat Mr. Hendrick, the chief reporter of The Freeman’s Journal, and poor O’Carroll, an old friend of Mr. Kernan’s, who had been at one time a considerable commercial figure. Gradually, as he recognised familiar faces, Mr. Kernan began to feel more at home. His hat, which had been rehabilitated by his wife, rested upon his knees. Once or twice he pulled down his cuffs with one hand while he held the brim of his hat lightly, but firmly, with the other hand.
讲坛附近的一张长凳上坐着坎宁安先生和克南先生。麦考伊先生独自一人坐在后面的长凳上，鲍尔先生和福格蒂先生也坐在他后面的长凳上。麦考伊先生曾试图与其他人一起在长凳上找到一席之地，但没有成功；当聚会以梅花形的形式安顿下来时，他曾试图发表滑稽的言论，但没有成功。由于这些没有得到很好的接受，他放弃了。就连他也感受到了这种高雅的气氛，甚至他也开始对宗教的刺激产生了反应。坎宁安先生小声地把克南先生的注意力吸引到坐在远处的放债人哈福德先生，以及坐在旁边讲坛正下方的登记代理人兼市长制定者范宁先生。新当选的选区议员之一。右边坐着老迈克尔·格莱姆斯（Michael Grimes），他是三个当铺的老板，还有丹·霍根（Dan Hogan）的侄子，他正在竞选镇书记官办公室的职位。前面更远的地方坐着《自由人日报》的首席记者亨德里克先生和可怜的奥卡罗尔，他是克南先生的老朋友，曾经是一位相当大的商业人物。渐渐地，当克南先生认出了熟悉的面孔时，他开始感到更加自在。他的帽子被他的妻子修复了，放在他的膝盖上。有一两次，他用一只手拉下袖口，另一只手轻轻但坚定地握住帽檐。

A powerful-looking figure, the upper part of which was draped with a white surplice, was observed to be struggling into the pulpit. Simultaneously the congregation unsettled, produced handkerchiefs and knelt upon them with care. Mr. Kernan followed the general example. The priest’s figure now stood upright in the pulpit, two-thirds of its bulk, crowned by a massive red face, appearing above the balustrade.
一个看起来很强大的人物，上半身披着白色法衣，正在挣扎着走上讲坛。与此同时，会众们不安起来，纷纷拿出手帕，小心翼翼地跪在上面。克南先生遵循了一般的例子。牧师的身影现在直立在讲坛上，占了三分之二的体积，头顶上有一张巨大的红色脸，出现在栏杆上方。

Father Purdon knelt down, turned towards the red speck of light and, covering his face with his hands, prayed. After an interval, he uncovered his face and rose. The congregation rose also and settled again on its benches. Mr. Kernan restored his hat to its original position on his knee and presented an attentive face to the preacher. The preacher turned back each wide sleeve of his surplice with an elaborate large gesture and slowly surveyed the array of faces. Then he said:
普登神父跪下来，转向红色的光点，用手捂住脸，祈祷。过了一会儿，他揭开脸，站了起来。会众也站了起来，重新坐在长凳上。克南先生将帽子放回到膝盖上原来的位置，向传教士露出专注的表情。传教士以一个复杂的大动作将法衣的宽袖子向后翻开，慢慢地审视着一排排的面孔。然后他说：

‘For the children of this world are wiser in their generation than the children of light. Wherefore make unto yourselves friends out of the mammon of iniquity so that when you die they may receive you into everlasting dwellings.’
‘因为这个世界的孩子在他们这一代比光明的孩子更聪明。因此，你们要从罪孽的玛门中结交朋友，这样当你们死后，他们就能接你们进入永恒的居所。

Father Purdon developed the text with resonant assurance. It was one of the most difficult texts in all the Scriptures, he said, to interpret properly. It was a text which might seem to the casual observer at variance with the lofty morality elsewhere preached by Jesus Christ. But, he told his hearers, the text had seemed to him specially adapted for the guidance of those whose lot it was to lead the life of the world and who yet wished to lead that life not in the manner of worldlings. It was a text for business men and professional men. Jesus Christ with His divine understanding of every cranny of our human nature, understood that all men were not called to the religious life, that by far the vast majority were forced to live in the world, and, to a certain extent, for the world: and in this sentence He designed to give them a word of counsel, setting before them as exemplars in the religious life those very worshippers of Mammon who were of all men the least solicitous in matters religious.
普登神父以令人共鸣的确信来撰写这篇文章。他说，这是所有圣经中最难正确解释的经文之一。在不经意的观察者看来，这段文字可能与耶稣基督在其他地方宣扬的崇高道德不一致。但是，他告诉听众，在他看来，这本书是专门为指导那些注定要过世俗生活、但又不希望以世俗方式过生活的人而改编的。这是一本写给商人和专业人士的文本。耶稣基督对我们人性的每一个缝隙有着神圣的理解，他明白并不是所有人都被召唤过宗教生活，到目前为止，绝大多数人被迫生活在这个世界上，并且在某种程度上，为了这个世界而生活。 ：在这句话中，他旨在给他们一个忠告，将那些在所有人中最不关心宗教事务的玛门崇拜者树立在宗教生活中的榜样。

He told his hearers that he was there that evening for no terrifying, no extravagant purpose; but as a man of the world speaking to his fellow-men. He came to speak to business men and he would speak to them in a businesslike way. If he might use the metaphor, he said, he was their spiritual accountant; and he wished each and every one of his hearers to open his books, the books of his spiritual life, and see if they tallied accurately with conscience.
他告诉听众，他那天晚上在那里没有什么可怕的，也没有什么奢侈的目的；而是作为一个世俗的人向他的同胞说话。他来与商人交谈，他会以公事公办的方式与他们交谈。他说，如果可以用这个比喻的话，他是他们的精神会计师；他是他们的精神会计师。他希望每一位听众打开他的书，他的精神生活之书，看看它们是否与良心相符。

Jesus Christ was not a hard taskmaster. He understood our little failings, understood the weakness of our poor fallen nature, understood the temptations of this life. We might have had, we all had from time to time, our temptations: we might have, we all had, our failings. But one thing only, he said, he would ask of his hearers. And that was: to be straight and manly with God. If their accounts tallied in every point to say:
耶稣基督并不是一个严厉的工头。他了解我们的小缺点，了解我们可怜的堕落本性的弱点，了解今生的诱惑。我们可能曾经有过，我们所有人都时不时地遇到过我们的诱惑；我们可能曾经有过，我们所有人都有过我们的失败。但他说，只有一件事，他会问他的听众。那就是：对神保持正直和男子气概。如果他们的账目在每一点上都相符的话：

‘Well, I have verified my accounts. I find all well.’
“嗯，我已经核实了我的账户。我发现一切都很好。

But if, as might happen, there were some discrepancies, to admit the truth, to be frank and say like a man:
但如果（可能会发生）存在一些差异，请承认事实，坦白地说，像个男人一样：

‘Well, I have looked into my accounts. I find this wrong and this wrong. But, with God’s grace, I will rectify this and this. I will set right my accounts.’
“嗯，我已经查过我的账目了。我觉得这个错了，这个也错了。但是，靠着上帝的恩典，我会纠正这个和这个。我会纠正我的账目。

The Dead
死亡

LILY, the caretaker’s daughter, was literally run off her feet. Hardly had she brought one gentleman into the little pantry behind the office on the ground floor and helped him off with his overcoat than the wheezy hall-door bell clanged again and she had to scamper along the bare hallway to let in another guest. It was well for her she had not to attend to the ladies also. But Miss Kate and Miss Julia had thought of that and had converted the bathroom upstairs into a ladies’ dressing-room. Miss Kate and Miss Julia were there, gossiping and laughing and fussing, walking after each other to the head of the stairs, peering down over the banisters and calling down to Lily to ask her who had come.
看门人的女儿莉莉简直被吓得不知所措。她刚把一位绅士带进一楼办公室后面的小食品储藏室，帮他脱下大衣，呼呼的门铃又响了，她不得不跑过空荡荡的走廊，让另一位客人进来。她不必再去照顾女士们，这对她来说是件好事。但凯特小姐和朱莉娅小姐想到了这一点，把楼上的浴室改成了女士更衣室。凯特小姐和朱莉娅小姐在那儿，一边闲聊一边大笑，一边大惊小怪，互相追赶到楼梯口，从栏杆上往下看，向下喊莉莉，问谁来了。

It was always a great affair, the Misses Morkan’s annual dance. Everybody who knew them came to it, members of the family, old friends of the family, the members of Julia’s choir, any of Kate’s pupils that were grown up enough, and even some of Mary Jane’s pupils too. Never once had it fallen flat. For years and years it had gone off in splendid style, as long as anyone could remember; ever since Kate and Julia, after the death of their brother Pat, had left the house in Stoney Batter and taken Mary Jane, their only niece, to live with them in the dark, gaunt house on Usher’s Island, the upper part of which they had rented from Mr. Fulham, the corn-factor on the ground floor. That was a good thirty years ago if it was a day. Mary Jane, who was then a little girl in short clothes, was now the main prop of the household, for she had the organ in Haddington Road. She had been through the Academy and gave a pupils’ concert every year in the upper room of the Antient Concert Rooms. Many of her pupils belonged to the better-class families on the Kingstown and Dalkey line. Old as they were, her aunts also did their share. Julia, though she was quite grey, was still the leading soprano in Adam and Eve’s, and Kate, being too feeble to go about much, gave music lessons to beginners on the old square piano in the back room. Lily, the caretaker’s daughter, did housemaid’s work for them. Though their life was modest, they believed in eating well; the best of everything: diamond-bone sirloins, three-shilling tea and the best bottled stout. But Lily seldom made a mistake in the orders, so that she got on well with her three mistresses. They were fussy, that was all. But the only thing they would not stand was back answers.
莫坎小姐的年度舞会一直是一件盛事。每个认识他们的人都来了，包括家里的成员、家里的老朋友、朱莉娅唱诗班的成员、凯特足够长大的学生，甚至还有玛丽·简的一些学生。从来没有一次失败过。多年来，只要有人记得，它就一直以辉煌的风格进行着。自从凯特和朱莉娅在他们的兄弟帕特去世后，离开了斯托尼巴特的房子，带着他们唯一的侄女玛丽·简，和他们一起住在亚瑟岛上那间黑暗、荒凉的房子里，他们住在房子的上半部分。是从富勒姆先生那里租来的，富勒姆先生是一楼的核心人物。如果是一天的话，那已经是三十年前的事了。玛丽·简当时还是一个穿着短裙的小女孩，现在她成了这个家庭的主要支柱，因为她在哈丁顿路有风琴。她曾在学院就读，每年都会在古代音乐厅的楼上举办一场学生音乐会。她的许多学生都来自金斯敦和达尔基沿线的上流家庭。她的姨妈们虽然年纪大了，但也尽了自己的一份力。朱莉娅虽然已经白发苍苍，但仍然是《亚当与夏娃》中的首席女高音，而凯特由于太虚弱，无法走动，就在后面房间的旧方形钢琴上给初学者上音乐课。看门人的女儿莉莉为他们做女仆的工作。尽管他们的生活简朴，但他们相信吃得好。最好的一切：金刚骨牛腰肉、三先令的茶和最好的瓶装烈性黑啤酒。但莉莉很少出差错，所以她和三个情妇相处得很好。他们很挑剔，仅此而已。但他们唯一不能忍受的是回复答案。

Of course, they had good reason to be fussy on such a night. And then it was long after ten o’clock and yet there was no sign of Gabriel and his wife. Besides they were dreadfully afraid that Freddy Malins might turn up screwed. They would not wish for worlds that any of Mary Jane’s pupils should see him under the influence; and when he was like that it was sometimes very hard to manage him. Freddy Malins always came late, but they wondered what could be keeping Gabriel: and that was what brought them every two minutes to the banisters to ask Lily had Gabriel or Freddy come.
当然，在这样的夜晚，他们有充分的理由大惊小怪。时间已经十点多了，但仍然没有加布里埃尔和他妻子的踪影。此外，他们非常担心弗雷迪·马林斯可能会搞砸。他们绝对不希望玛丽·简的任何学生看到他受到影响。当他这样的时候，有时很难管理他。弗雷迪·马林斯总是迟到，但他们想知道是什么让加布里埃尔迟到了：这就是他们每隔两分钟就到栏杆前询问莉莉让加布里埃尔或弗雷迪来的原因。

‘O, Mr. Conroy,’ said Lily to Gabriel when she opened the door for him, ‘Miss Kate and Miss Julia thought you were never coming. Good-night, Mrs. Conroy.’
“哦，康罗伊先生，”莉莉为加布里埃尔开门时对他说，“凯特小姐和朱莉娅小姐以为你永远不会来了。”晚安，康罗伊夫人。

‘I’ll engage they did,’ said Gabriel, ‘but they forget that my wife here takes three mortal hours to dress herself.’
“我敢说他们确实这么做了，”加布里埃尔说，“但他们忘记了，我的妻子在这里要花三个小时来穿衣服。”

He stood on the mat, scraping the snow from his goloshes, while Lily led his wife to the foot of the stairs and called out:
他站在垫子上，刮掉套鞋上的积雪，莉莉领着他的妻子走到楼梯脚下，大声喊道：

‘Miss Kate, here’s Mrs. Conroy.’
“凯特小姐，这是康罗伊夫人。”

Kate and Julia came toddling down the dark stairs at once. Both of them kissed Gabriel’s wife, said she must be perished alive, and asked was Gabriel with her.
凯特和朱莉娅同时摇摇晃晃地走下黑暗的楼梯。他们两人都亲吻了加百列的妻子，说她一定会被活活消灭，并询问加百列是否和她在一起。

‘Here I am as right as the mail, Aunt Kate! Go on up. I’ll follow,’ called out Gabriel from the dark.
“我和邮件一样正确，凯特阿姨！继续往上走吧我跟上。”加百列在黑暗中喊道。

He continued scraping his feet vigorously while the three women went upstairs, laughing, to the ladies’ dressing-room. A light fringe of snow lay like a cape on the shoulders of his overcoat and like toecaps on the toes of his goloshes; and, as the buttons of his overcoat slipped with a squeaking noise through the snow-stiffened frieze, a cold, fragrant air from out-of-doors escaped from crevices and folds.
他继续使劲地刮脚，三个女人笑着上楼，去了女更衣室。一层薄薄的雪花像斗篷一样落在他大衣的肩部，又像鞋头一样落在他的套鞋的脚趾上。当他大衣的纽扣从积雪硬化的楣板中滑落时，发出吱吱的声音，一股来自户外的寒冷芬芳的空气从缝隙和褶皱中逸出。

‘Is it snowing again, Mr. Conroy?’ asked Lily.
“康罗伊先生，又下雪了吗？”莉莉问道。

She had preceded him into the pantry to help him off with his overcoat. Gabriel smiled at the three syllables she had given his surname and glanced at her. She was a slim; growing girl, pale in complexion and with hay-coloured hair. The gas in the pantry made her look still paler. Gabriel had known her when she was a child and used to sit on the lowest step nursing a rag doll.
她先于他进入食品储藏室，帮他脱下大衣。加百列看着她说出的三个音节的姓氏，笑了笑，看了她一眼。她身材苗条；成长中的女孩，肤色苍白，头发呈干草色。食品储藏室里的煤气让她看起来更加苍白。加布里埃尔在她还是个孩子的时候就认识她了，经常坐在最低的台阶上照顾布娃娃。

‘Yes, Lily,’ he answered, ‘and I think we’re in for a night of it.’
“是的，莉莉，”他回答道，“我想我们会度过一个愉快的夜晚。”

He looked up at the pantry ceiling, which was shaking with the stamping and shuffling of feet on the floor above, listened for a moment to the piano and then glanced at the girl, who was folding his overcoat carefully at the end of a shelf.
他抬头看了看食品储藏室的天花板，天花板因脚踩在地板上的脚步声而摇晃，他听了一会儿钢琴曲，然后瞥了一眼那个女孩，她正在架子末端小心翼翼地折叠他的大衣。

‘Tell me. Lily,’ he said in a friendly tone, ‘do you still go to school?’
'告诉我。莉莉，”他用友好的语气说道，“你还去上学吗？

‘O no, sir,’ she answered. ‘I’m done schooling this year and more.’
“噢，不，先生，”她回答道。 “我今年已经完成学业了。”

‘O, then,’ said Gabriel gaily, ‘I suppose we’ll be going to your wedding one of these fine days with your young man, eh? ‘
“哦，那么，”加百列高兴地说，“我想我们会在天气好的时候和你的年轻人一起去参加你的婚礼，嗯？ '

The girl glanced back at him over her shoulder and said with great bitterness:
女孩回头看了他一眼，苦涩地说：

‘The men that is now is only all palaver and what they can get out of you.’
“现在的人都只是闲聊，他们能从你身上得到什么。”

Gabriel coloured, as if he felt he had made a mistake and, without looking at her, kicked off his goloshes and flicked actively with his muffler at his patent-leather shoes.
加百列脸色涨红，仿佛觉得自己犯了一个错误，他没有看她，就踢掉了套鞋，用围巾猛烈地弹了弹漆皮鞋。

He was a stout, tallish young man. The high colour of his cheeks pushed upwards even to his forehead, where it scattered itself in a few formless patches of pale red; and on his hairless face there scintillated restlessly the polished lenses and the bright gilt rims of the glasses which screened his delicate and restless eyes. His glossy black hair was parted in the middle and brushed in a long curve behind his ears where it curled slightly beneath the groove left by his hat.
他是一个身材矮胖、身材高大的年轻人。他脸颊的颜色很高，甚至向上延伸到额头，在那里散布出几块无形的淡红色斑块。在他无毛的脸上，抛光的镜片和明亮的镀金眼镜框闪烁着不安的光芒，遮住了他精致而不安的眼睛。他那光滑的黑发从中间分开，在耳后梳成一条长长的曲线，在帽子留下的凹槽下面微微卷曲。

When he had flicked lustre into his shoes he stood up and pulled his waistcoat down more tightly on his plump body. Then he took a coin rapidly from his pocket.
当他给鞋子擦上光泽后，他站了起来，把马甲拉得更紧，裹在他丰满的身体上。然后他迅速从口袋里掏出一枚硬币。

‘O Lily,’ he said, thrusting it into her hands, ‘it’s Christmastime, isn’t it? Just... here’s a little....’
“噢，莉莉，”他把它塞到她手里，说道，“现在是圣诞节，不是吗？只是……这里有一点……”

He walked rapidly towards the door.
他快步朝门口走去。

‘O no, sir!’ cried the girl, following him. ‘Really, sir, I wouldn’t take it.’
“哦，不，先生！”女孩跟着他喊道。 “说实话，先生，我不会接受的。”

‘Christmas-time! Christmas-time!’ said Gabriel, almost trotting to the stairs and waving his hand to her in deprecation.
'圣诞节的时候！圣诞节！”加布里埃尔几乎是小跑着跑到楼梯上，不以为然地向她挥手。

The girl, seeing that he had gained the stairs, called out after him:
女孩见他上了楼梯，就在他身后喊道：

‘Well, thank you, sir.’
“好吧，谢谢您，先生。”

He waited outside the drawing-room door until the waltz should finish, listening to the skirts that swept against it and to the shuffling of feet. He was still discomposed by the girl’s bitter and sudden retort. It had cast a gloom over him which he tried to dispel by arranging his cuffs and the bows of his tie. He then took from his waistcoat pocket a little paper and glanced at the headings he had made for his speech. He was undecided about the lines from Robert Browning, for he feared they would be above the heads of his hearers. Some quotation that they would recognise from Shakespeare or from the Melodies would be better. The indelicate clacking of the men’s heels and the shuffling of their soles reminded him that their grade of culture differed from his. He would only make himself ridiculous by quoting poetry to them which they could not understand. They would think that he was airing his superior education. He would fail with them just as he had failed with the girl in the pantry. He had taken up a wrong tone. His whole speech was a mistake from first to last, an utter failure.
他在客厅门外等着，直到华尔兹结束，听着裙子扫过门的声音和拖着脚步的脚步声。少女突如其来的尖酸刻薄的反驳，依然让他心神不宁。这给他带来了一种阴郁的情绪，他试图通过整理袖口和领带的蝴蝶结来驱散这种阴郁。然后他从背心口袋里拿出一张小纸，看了一眼他为演讲准备的标题。他对罗伯特·勃朗宁的台词犹豫不决，因为他担心这些台词超出了听众的理解能力。一些他们能从莎士比亚或旋律中认出的引文会更好。男人们高跟鞋不雅的嘎嘎声和脚底的拖曳声提醒他，他们的文化等级与他不同。他向他们引用他们无法理解的诗歌，只会让自己变得可笑。他们会认为他是在炫耀他的优秀教育。他在他们身上会失败，就像他在食品储藏室里的女孩身上失败一样。他用了错误的语气。他的整个演讲从头到尾都是一个错误，彻底的失败。

Just then his aunts and his wife came out of the ladies’ dressing-room. His aunts were two small, plainly dressed old women. Aunt Julia was an inch or so the taller. Her hair, drawn low over the tops of her ears, was grey; and grey also, with darker shadows, was her large flaccid face. Though she was stout in build and stood erect, her slow eyes and parted lips gave her the appearance of a woman who did not know where she was or where she was going. Aunt Kate was more vivacious. Her face, healthier than her sister’s, was all puckers and creases, like a shrivelled red apple, and her hair, braided in the same old-fashioned way, had not lost its ripe nut colour.
就在这时，他的阿姨和他的妻子从女更衣室出来了。他的姑妈是两位身材矮小、衣着朴素的老妇人。朱莉娅姨妈比我们高一英寸左右。她的头发是灰色的，低垂到耳朵上方。她那张松弛的大脸也是灰色的，阴影更深。虽然她身材魁梧，站得笔直，但她缓慢的目光和张开的嘴唇让她看起来像是一个不知道自己在哪里，也不知道要去哪里的女人。凯特阿姨就比较活泼了。她的脸比她姐姐的健康，布满了皱纹和皱纹，就像一个干瘪的红苹果，她的头发同样用老式的方式编成辫子，但并没有失去成熟的坚果色。

They both kissed Gabriel frankly. He was their favourite nephew the son of their dead elder sister, Ellen, who had married T. J. Conroy of the Port and Docks.
他们俩都坦诚地亲吻了加百列。他是他们最喜欢的侄子，是他们死去的姐姐艾伦的儿子，艾伦嫁给了港口码头的 T. J. 康罗伊。

‘Gretta tells me you’re not going to take a cab back to Monkstown tonight, Gabriel,’ said Aunt Kate.
“格蕾塔告诉我，加布里埃尔，你今晚不会坐出租车回蒙克斯敦，”凯特姨妈说。

‘No,’ said Gabriel, turning to his wife, ‘we had quite enough of that last year, hadn’t we? Don’t you remember, Aunt Kate, what a cold Gretta got out of it? Cab windows rattling all the way, and the east wind blowing in after we passed Merrion. Very jolly it was. Gretta caught a dreadful cold.’
“不，”加布里埃尔转向他的妻子说道，“去年我们已经受够了，不是吗？凯特姨妈，你不记得格蕾塔受了多大的冷吗？驾驶室窗户一路嘎嘎作响，经过梅林后东风吹进来。真是太高兴了。格蕾塔得了重感冒。

Aunt Kate frowned severely and nodded her head at every word.
凯特姨妈眉头紧皱，每说一句话就点点头。

‘Quite right, Gabriel, quite right,’ she said. ‘You can’t be too careful.’
“完全正确，加布里埃尔，完全正确，”她说。 “你再小心也不过分。”

‘But as for Gretta there,’ said Gabriel, ‘she’d walk home in the snow if she were let.’
“但是格蕾塔在那里，”加布里埃尔说，“如果允许的话，她会在雪中步行回家。”

Mrs. Conroy laughed.
康罗伊夫人笑了。

‘Don’t mind him, Aunt Kate,’ she said. ‘He’s really an awful bother, what with green shades for Tom’s eyes at night and making him do the dumb-bells, and forcing Eva to eat the stirabout. The poor child! And she simply hates the sight of it!... O, but you’ll never guess what he makes me wear now!’
“别介意他，凯特姨妈，”她说。 “他真是个讨厌鬼，晚上给汤姆的眼睛戴上绿色的眼罩，让他做哑铃，还强迫伊娃吃小吃。”可怜的孩子！她就是讨厌看到它！……哦，但你永远猜不到他现在让我穿什么！

She broke out into a peal of laughter and glanced at her husband, whose admiring and happy eyes had been wandering from her dress to her face and hair. The two aunts laughed heartily, too, for Gabriel’s solicitude was a standing joke with them.
她突然大笑起来，看了一眼丈夫，他钦佩而幸福的目光一直从她的衣服移到她的脸和头发上。两位阿姨也开怀大笑，因为加百列的关心对她们来说是个常年的玩笑。

‘Goloshes!’ said Mrs. Conroy. ‘That’s the latest. Whenever it’s wet underfoot I must put on my galoshes. Tonight even, he wanted me to put them on, but I wouldn’t. The next thing he’ll buy me will be a diving suit.’
“套鞋！”康罗伊夫人说。 ‘这是最新的。每当脚下湿的时候，我就必须穿上套鞋。甚至今晚，他也想让我戴上它们，但我没有戴。他给我买的下一件东西将是潜水服。

Gabriel laughed nervously and patted his tie reassuringly, while Aunt Kate nearly doubled herself, so heartily did she enjoy the joke. The smile soon faded from Aunt Julia’s face and her mirthless eyes were directed towards her nephew’s face. After a pause she asked:
加布里埃尔紧张地笑了笑，安慰地拍了拍领带，而凯特姨妈几乎弯下身子，她非常喜欢这个笑话。朱莉娅姨妈脸上的笑容很快就消失了，她忧郁的目光注视着她侄子的脸。停顿了一下，她问道：

‘And what are goloshes, Gabriel?’
“加百列，套鞋是什么？”

‘Goloshes, Julia!’ exclaimed her sister ‘Goodness me, don’t you know what goloshes are? You wear them over your... over your boots, Gretta, isn’t it?’
“茱莉亚，套鞋！”她姐姐喊道，“天啊，你难道不知道套鞋是什么吗？你把它们穿在你的……靴子上，格蕾塔，不是吗？

‘Yes,’ said Mrs. Conroy. ‘Guttapercha things. We both have a pair now. Gabriel says everyone wears them on the Continent.’
“是的，”康罗伊夫人说。 ‘古塔胶的东西。我们现在都有一双。加布里埃尔说欧洲大陆的每个人都戴着它们。

‘O, on the Continent,’ murmured Aunt Julia, nodding her head slowly.
“哦，在欧洲大陆。”朱莉娅姨妈低声说道，慢慢地点着头。

Gabriel knitted his brows and said, as if he were slightly angered:
加百列皱着眉头，似乎有些生气地说道：

‘It’s nothing very wonderful, but Gretta thinks it very funny because she says the word reminds her of Christy Minstrels.’
“这没什么了不起的，但格雷塔认为这很有趣，因为她说这个词让她想起了克里斯蒂·吟游诗人。”

‘But tell me, Gabriel,’ said Aunt Kate, with brisk tact. ‘Of course, you’ve seen about the room. Gretta was saying...’
“但是请告诉我，加布里埃尔，”凯特姨妈轻快而机智地说。 “当然，你已经看过这个房间了。格蕾塔说……”

‘0, the room is all right,’ replied Gabriel. ‘I’ve taken one in the Gresham.’
“0，房间还好。”加百列回答道。 “我在格雷沙姆拍了一张。”

‘To be sure,’ said Aunt Kate, ‘by far the best thing to do. And the children, Gretta, you’re not anxious about them?’
“当然，”凯特姨妈说，“迄今为止这是最好的办法。”还有孩子们，格蕾塔，你不担心他们吗？

‘0, for one night,’ said Mrs. Conroy. ‘Besides, Bessie will look after them.’
“0，住一晚，”康罗伊夫人说。 “此外，贝西会照顾他们。”

‘To be sure,’ said Aunt Kate again. ‘What a comfort it is to have a girl like that, one you can depend on! There’s that Lily, I’m sure I don’t know what has come over her lately. She’s not the girl she was at all.’
“当然，”凯特姨妈又说道。 “有这样一个可以依靠的女孩，是多么令人欣慰啊！”就是那个莉莉，我确定我不知道她最近发生了什么。她根本就不再是原来的那个女孩了。

Gabriel was about to ask his aunt some questions on this point, but she broke off suddenly to gaze after her sister, who had wandered down the stairs and was craning her neck over the banisters.
加百列正想问姨妈一些问题，但她突然停了下来，盯着姐姐，她已经走下楼梯，把脖子伸到栏杆上。

‘Now, I ask you,’ she said almost testily, ‘where is Julia going? Julia! Julia! Where are you going?’
“现在，我问你，”她几乎是暴躁地说，“朱莉娅要去哪里？朱莉娅！朱莉娅！你要去哪里？'

Julia, who had gone half way down one flight, came back and announced blandly:
朱莉娅下了一架飞机走了一半，回来后温和地宣布：

‘Here’s Freddy.’
“这是弗雷迪。”

At the same moment a clapping of hands and a final flourish of the pianist told that the waltz had ended. The drawing-room door was opened from within and some couples came out. Aunt Kate drew Gabriel aside hurriedly and whispered into his ear:
与此同时，一阵掌声和钢琴家最后的演奏宣告华尔兹结束了。客厅的门从里面打开，几对情侣走了出来。凯特姨妈赶紧把加百列拉到一边，在他耳边低声说道：

‘Slip down, Gabriel, like a good fellow and see if he’s all right, and don’t let him up if he’s screwed. I’m sure he’s screwed. I’m sure he is.’
“加百列，像个好人一样溜下来，看看他是否还好，如果他搞砸了，不要让他起来。我确信他完蛋了。我确信他是。

Gabriel went to the stairs and listened over the banisters. He could hear two persons talking in the pantry. Then he recognised Freddy Malins’ laugh. He went down the stairs noisily.
加百列走到楼梯上，隔着栏杆听着。他听见食品储藏室里有两个人说话。然后他认出了弗雷迪·马林斯的笑声。他吵闹地下了楼梯。

‘It’s such a relief,’ said Aunt Kate to Mrs. Conroy, ‘that Gabriel is here. I always feel easier in my mind when he’s here.... Julia, there’s Miss Daly and Miss Power will take some refreshment. Thanks for your beautiful waltz, Miss Daly. It made lovely time.’
“加布里埃尔在这里，真是让人松了口气，”凯特姨妈对康罗伊夫人说。当他在这里时，我总是感觉轻松一些……朱莉娅，戴利小姐在那儿，鲍尔小姐需要一些茶点。谢谢你优美的华尔兹，戴利小姐。这真是一段美好的时光。

A tall wizen-faced man, with a stiff grizzled moustache and swarthy skin, who was passing out with his partner, said:
一个身材高大、面容干瘪、胡子花白、皮肤黝黑的男人正和他的伴侣一起昏倒，他说：

‘And may we have some refreshment, too, Miss Morkan?’
“莫坎小姐，我们也可以吃点茶点吗？”

‘Julia,’ said Aunt Kate summarily, ‘and here’s Mr. Browne and Miss Furlong. Take them in, Julia, with Miss Daly and Miss Power.’
“朱莉娅，”凯特姨妈简单地说，“这是布朗先生和弗隆小姐。”带他们进来，朱莉娅，还有戴利小姐和鲍尔小姐。”

‘I’m the man for the ladies,’ said Mr. Browne, pursing his lips until his moustache bristled and smiling in all his wrinkles. ‘You know, Miss Morkan, the reason they are so fond of me is——‘
“我是适合女士们的男人，”布朗先生说，他撅起嘴唇，直到胡子竖起来，脸上的皱纹都在微笑。 “你知道，莫坎小姐，他们如此喜欢我的原因是——”

He did not finish his sentence, but, seeing that Aunt Kate was out of earshot, at once led the three young ladies into the back room. The middle of the room was occupied by two square tables placed end to end, and on these Aunt Julia and the caretaker were straightening and smoothing a large cloth. On the sideboard were arrayed dishes and plates, and glasses and bundles of knives and forks and spoons. The top of the closed square piano served also as a sideboard for viands and sweets. At a smaller sideboard in one corner two young men were standing, drinking hop-bitters.
他话没说完，见凯特姨妈不在听得见的地方，连忙领着三位小姐进了里屋。房间中央摆着两张首尾相连的方桌，朱莉娅姨妈和看门人正在桌子上拉直、抚平一块大布。餐具柜上摆着盘子、盘子、玻璃杯和成捆的刀叉勺子。封闭式方形钢琴的顶部还可以用作餐具柜，放置食物和糖果。角落里一个较小的餐具柜旁站着两个年轻人，喝着啤酒花苦酒。

Mr. Browne led his charges thither and invited them all, in jest, to some ladies’ punch, hot, strong and sweet. As they said they never took anything strong, he opened three bottles of lemonade for them. Then he asked one of the young men to move aside, and, taking hold of the decanter, filled out for himself a goodly measure of whisky. The young men eyed him respectfully while he took a trial sip.
布朗先生带着他的手下到了那里，并开玩笑地邀请他们所有人去喝一杯热腾腾、浓烈而甜蜜的女士潘趣酒。正如他们所说，他们从来不吃烈性的东西，他为他们开了三瓶柠檬水。然后他让其中一个年轻人退到一边，拿起醒酒器，给自己倒了一杯威士忌。当他尝了一口时，年轻人恭敬地看着他。

‘God help me,’ he said, smiling, ‘it’s the doctor’s orders.’
“上帝保佑我，”他微笑着说，“这是医生的命令。”

His wizened face broke into a broader smile, and the three young ladies laughed in musical echo to his pleasantry, swaying their bodies to and fro, with nervous jerks of their shoulders. The boldest said:
他干瘪的脸绽放出灿烂的笑容，三位年轻女士的笑声与他的愉快音乐相呼应，前后摇晃着身体，肩膀紧张地抽动着。最大胆的说道：

‘O, now, Mr. Browne, I’m sure the doctor never ordered anything of the kind.’
“噢，布朗先生，我确信医生从来没有开过类似的处方。”

Mr. Browne took another sip of his whisky and said, with sidling mimicry:
布朗先生又喝了一口威士忌，一边模仿一边说道：

‘Well, you see, I’m like the famous Mrs. Cassidy, who is reported to have said: ‘Now, Mary Grimes, if I don’t take it, make me take it, for I feel I want it.’’
“嗯，你看，我就像著名的卡西迪夫人，据说她说过：‘现在，玛丽·格莱姆斯，如果我不接受它，就让我接受它，因为我觉得我想要它。’” '

His hot face had leaned forward a little too confidentially and he had assumed a very low Dublin accent so that the young ladies, with one instinct, received his speech in silence. Miss Furlong, who was one of Mary Jane’s pupils, asked Miss Daly what was the name of the pretty waltz she had played; and Mr. Browne, seeing that he was ignored, turned promptly to the two young men who were more appreciative.
他那张火热的脸向前倾斜得有点过于保密，而且他的口音很低，所以年轻的女士们本能地安静地听着他的讲话。弗隆小姐是玛丽·简的学生之一，她问戴利小姐她演奏过的那首优美的华尔兹叫什么名字？布朗先生看到自己被忽视了，立即转向那两个更欣赏他的年轻人。

A red-faced young woman, dressed in pansy, came into the room, excitedly clapping her hands and crying:
一个身穿紫罗兰色的红脸少妇走进屋来，兴奋地拍手哭道：

‘Quadrilles! Quadrilles!’
‘方格舞！四方曲！’

Close on her heels came Aunt Kate, crying:
凯特姨妈紧随其后，哭喊道：

‘Two gentlemen and three ladies, Mary Jane!’
“两位先生和三位女士，玛丽·简！”

‘O, here’s Mr. Bergin and Mr. Kerrigan,’ said Mary Jane. ‘Mr. Kerrigan, will you take Miss Power? Miss Furlong, may I get you a partner, Mr. Bergin. O, that’ll just do now.’
“哦，这是伯金先生和凯里根先生，”玛丽·简说。 '先生。凯瑞甘，你愿意带鲍尔小姐吗？弗隆小姐，伯金先生，我可以给你找个搭档吗？哦，现在就这样了。

‘Three ladies, Mary Jane,’ said Aunt Kate.
“三位女士，玛丽·简，”凯特姨妈说。

The two young gentlemen asked the ladies if they might have the pleasure, and Mary Jane turned to Miss Daly.
两位年轻的绅士问两位女士是否愿意，玛丽·简转向戴利小姐。

‘O, Miss Daly, you’re really awfully good, after playing for the last two dances, but really we’re so short of ladies tonight.’
“哦，戴利小姐，在参加了最后两支舞之后，你真的非常出色，但今晚我们真的太缺女士了。”

‘I don’t mind in the least, Miss Morkan.’
“我一点也不介意，莫坎小姐。”

‘But I’ve a nice partner for you, Mr. Bartell D’Arcy, the tenor. I’ll get him to sing later on. All Dublin is raving about him.’
“但是我有一个很好的搭档适合你，男高音巴特尔·达西先生。稍后我会让他唱歌。整个都柏林都对他赞不绝口。

‘Lovely voice, lovely voice!’ said Aunt Kate.
“可爱的声音，可爱的声音！”凯特姨妈说。

As the piano had twice begun the prelude to the first figure Mary Jane led her recruits quickly from the room. They had hardly gone when Aunt Julia wandered slowly into the room, looking behind her at something.
当钢琴奏响了第二首乐曲的前奏时，玛丽·简带着她的新兵迅速离开了房间。他们刚走，朱莉娅姨妈慢慢地走进房间，看着身后的什么东西。

‘What is the matter, Julia?’ asked Aunt Kate anxiously. ‘Who is it?’
“怎么了，朱莉娅？”凯特姨妈焦急地问。 '是谁？'

Julia, who was carrying in a column of table-napkins, turned to her sister and said, simply, as if the question had surprised her:
朱莉娅手里拿着一排餐巾，她转向她的妹妹，简单地说，好像这个问题让她感到惊讶：

‘It’s only Freddy, Kate, and Gabriel with him.’
“只有弗雷迪、凯特和加布里埃尔和他在一起。”

In fact right behind her Gabriel could be seen piloting Freddy Malins across the landing. The latter, a young man of about forty, was of Gabriel’s size and build, with very round shoulders. His face was fleshy and pallid, touched with colour only at the thick hanging lobes of his ears and at the wide wings of his nose. He had coarse features, a blunt nose, a convex and receding brow, tumid and protruded lips. His heavy-lidded eyes and the disorder of his scanty hair made him look sleepy. He was laughing heartily in a high key at a story which he had been telling Gabriel on the stairs and at the same time rubbing the knuckles of his left fist backwards and forwards into his left eye.
事实上，就在她身后，可以看到加布里埃尔驾驶弗雷迪·马林斯穿过楼梯平台。后者是个四十岁左右的年轻人，身材和体格与加百列相当，肩膀很圆。他的脸肉乎乎的，苍白，只有厚重的耳垂和宽阔的鼻翼处沾染着色彩。他五官粗犷，鼻子圆钝，眉毛凸而后缩，嘴唇肿胀而突出。他厚重的眼皮和稀疏的头发让他看起来很困。他正一边高声大笑，一边听着他在楼梯上给加百列讲的故事，同时用左拳的指节来回摩擦着左眼。

‘Good-evening, Freddy,’ said Aunt Julia.
“晚上好，弗雷迪，”朱莉娅姨妈说。

Freddy Malins bade the Misses Morkan good-evening in what seemed an offhand fashion by reason of the habitual catch in his voice and then, seeing that Mr. Browne was grinning at him from the sideboard, crossed the room on rather shaky legs and began to repeat in an undertone the story he had just told to Gabriel.
弗雷迪·马林斯向莫坎小姐道了晚安，由于他的声音习惯性地哽咽，所以他的语气显得很随意，然后，看到布朗先生在餐具柜上对他咧着嘴笑，他迈着颤抖的双腿穿过房间，开始说话。低声重复他刚刚给加百列讲的故事。

‘He’s not so bad, is he?’ said Aunt Kate to Gabriel.
“他没那么坏，是吗？”凯特姨妈对加布里埃尔说。

Gabriel’s brows were dark but he raised them quickly and answered:
加百列眉头一沉，但还是很快扬起，回答道：

‘O, no, hardly noticeable.’
“噢，不，很难注意到。”

‘Now, isn’t he a terrible fellow!’ she said. ‘And his poor mother made him take the pledge on New Year’s Eve. But come on, Gabriel, into the drawing-room.’
“现在看来，他不是一个可怕的家伙吗！”她说。 “他可怜的母亲让他在除夕夜发誓。但来吧，加布里埃尔，到客厅去。”

Before leaving the room with Gabriel she signalled to Mr. Browne by frowning and shaking her forefinger in warning to and fro. Mr. Browne nodded in answer and, when she had gone, said to Freddy Malins:
在和加布里埃尔离开房间之前，她皱着眉头，前后晃动食指，向布朗先生发出警告。布朗先生点头回应，等她走后，对弗雷迪·马林斯说：

‘Now, then, Teddy, I’m going to fill you out a good glass of lemonade just to buck you up.’
“那么现在，泰迪，我要给你倒一杯好柠檬水，让你振作起来。”

Freddy Malins, who was nearing the climax of his story, waved the offer aside impatiently but Mr. Browne, having first called Freddy Malins’ attention to a disarray in his dress, filled out and handed him a full glass of lemonade. Freddy Malins’ left hand accepted the glass mechanically, his right hand being engaged in the mechanical readjustment of his dress. Mr. Browne, whose face was once more wrinkling with mirth, poured out for himself a glass of whisky while Freddy Malins exploded, before he had well reached the climax of his story, in a kink of high-pitched bronchitic laughter and, setting down his untasted and overflowing glass, began to rub the knuckles of his left fist backwards and forwards into his left eye, repeating words of his last phrase as well as his fit of laughter would allow him.
弗雷迪·马林斯的故事正接近高潮，他不耐烦地挥手拒绝了这个提议，但布朗先生首先提醒弗雷迪·马林斯注意他衣服上的凌乱，然后给他倒了一杯柠檬水。弗雷迪·马林斯的左手机械地接住了玻璃杯，右手机械地调整着他的衣服。 ”他喝着未尝过的溢出的玻璃杯，开始用左拳指关节来回擦着左眼，一边大笑一边重复着最后一句话。

Gabriel could not listen while Mary Jane was playing her Academy piece, full of runs and difficult passages, to the hushed drawing-room. He liked music but the piece she was playing had no melody for him and he doubted whether it had any melody for the other listeners, though they had begged Mary Jane to play something. Four young men, who had come from the refreshment-room to stand in the doorway at the sound of the piano, had gone away quietly in couples after a few minutes. The only persons who seemed to follow the music were Mary Jane herself, her hands racing along the key-board or lifted from it at the pauses like those of a priestess in momentary imprecation, and Aunt Kate standing at her elbow to turn the page.
当玛丽·简在安静的客厅里演奏她的学院作品时，加布里埃尔无法倾听，其中充满了跑动和困难的段落。他喜欢音乐，但她演奏的曲子没有适合他的旋律，他怀疑它是否有适合其他听众的旋律，尽管他们恳求玛丽·简演奏一些东西。听到钢琴声，四个从茶点室出来站在门口的年轻人，几分钟后就三两两悄悄地走了。唯一能跟上音乐的人似乎只有玛丽·简本人，她的双手在键盘上飞驰，或者在停顿时抬起，就像一位女祭司在短暂的咒语中的动作，而凯特姨妈则站在她的肘部翻页。

Gabriel’s eyes, irritated by the floor, which glittered with beeswax under the heavy chandelier, wandered to the wall above the piano. A picture of the balcony scene in Romeo and Juliet hung there and beside it was a picture of the two murdered princes in the Tower which Aunt Julia had worked in red, blue and brown wools when she was a girl. Probably in the school they had gone to as girls that kind of work had been taught for one year. His mother had worked for him as a birthday present a waistcoat of purple tabinet, with little foxes’ heads upon it, lined with brown satin and having round mulberry buttons. It was strange that his mother had had no musical talent though Aunt Kate used to call her the brains carrier of the Morkan family. Both she and Julia had always seemed a little proud of their serious and matronly sister. Her photograph stood before the pierglass. She held an open book on her knees and was pointing out something in it to Constantine who, dressed in a man-o-war suit, lay at her feet. It was she who had chosen the name of her sons for she was very sensible of the dignity of family life. Thanks to her, Constantine was now senior curate in Balbrigan and, thanks to her, Gabriel himself had taken his degree in the Royal University. A shadow passed over his face as he remembered her sullen opposition to his marriage. Some slighting phrases she had used still rankled in his memory; she had once spoken of Gretta as being country cute and that was not true of Gretta at all. It was Gretta who had nursed her during all her last long illness in their house at Monkstown.
加百列的眼睛被沉重的枝形吊灯下闪烁着蜂蜡的地板所激怒，他的眼睛瞟向钢琴上方的墙壁。那里挂着一张《罗密欧与朱丽叶》中阳台场景的照片，旁边是一张塔楼里两个被谋杀的王子的照片，朱莉娅姨妈小时候曾用红色、蓝色和棕色的羊毛做工。也许在她们还是女孩的时候就读的学校里，这种工作已经被教授了一年。他的母亲为他做了一件紫色背心作为生日礼物，背心上有小狐狸的头像，内衬是棕色缎子，上面有圆形的桑葚纽扣。奇怪的是，他的母亲并没有音乐天赋，尽管凯特姨妈曾称她为莫坎家族的大脑载体。她和朱莉娅似乎总是为她们严肃而主妇的妹妹感到有点自豪。她的照片站在望远镜前。她膝上放着一本打开的书，正向躺在她脚边的康斯坦丁指着里面的东西。儿子的名字是她选的，因为她非常注重家庭生活的尊严。多亏了她，康斯坦丁现在成为巴尔布里根的高级牧师，多亏了她，加布里埃尔本人在皇家大学获得了学位。当他想起她阴沉地反对他的婚姻时，他的脸上掠过一丝阴影。她说过的一些轻蔑的话仍然让他记忆犹新。她曾经说过格蕾塔是乡村可爱，但格蕾塔根本不是这样的。在她最后一次长期生病期间，格蕾塔一直在蒙克斯敦的家里照顾她。

He knew that Mary Jane must be near the end of her piece for she was playing again the opening melody with runs of scales after every bar and while he waited for the end the resentment died down in his heart. The piece ended with a trill of octaves in the treble and a final deep octave in the bass. Great applause greeted Mary Jane as, blushing and rolling up her music nervously, she escaped from the room. The most vigorous clapping came from the four young men in the doorway who had gone away to the refreshment-room at the beginning of the piece but had come back when the piano had stopped.
他知道玛丽·简一定快要结束她的曲子了，因为她又开始演奏开头的旋律，每个小节后面都有音阶，在他等待结束的时候，他心里的怨恨渐渐平息了。这首曲子以高音八度的颤音和低音最后深八度的颤音结束。玛丽·简脸红了，紧张地放着音乐，逃离了房间，热烈的掌声迎接了她。最有力的鼓掌来自门口的四个年轻人，他们在乐曲开始时就去茶点室，但在钢琴停止时又回来了。

Lancers were arranged. Gabriel found himself partnered with Miss Ivors. She was a frank-mannered talkative young lady, with a freckled face and prominent brown eyes. She did not wear a low-cut bodice and the large brooch which was fixed in the front of her collar bore on it an Irish device and motto.
枪骑兵已经安排好了。加布里埃尔发现自己与艾弗斯小姐搭档。她是一位性格坦率、健谈的年轻女士，脸上长着雀斑，棕色的眼睛突出。她没有穿低胸紧身胸衣，领子前面固定着一枚大胸针，上面有爱尔兰图案和座右铭。

When they had taken their places she said abruptly:
当他们就座后，她突然说道：

‘I have a crow to pluck with you.’
“我有一只乌鸦要和你一起拔毛。”

‘With me?’ said Gabriel.
“和我一起吗？”加百列说。

She nodded her head gravely.
她严肃地点点头。

‘What is it?’ asked Gabriel, smiling at her solemn manner.
“什么事？”加百列看着她严肃的态度微笑着问道。

‘Who is G. C.?’ answered Miss Ivors, turning her eyes upon him.
“谁是G.C.？”艾弗斯小姐回答道，眼睛转向他。

Gabriel coloured and was about to knit his brows, as if he did not understand, when she said bluntly:
加百列脸色涨红，正要皱起眉头，一副听不懂的样子，她就直截了当地说道：

‘O, innocent Amy! I have found out that you write for The Daily Express. Now, aren’t you ashamed of yourself?’
‘噢，无辜的艾米！我发现你为《每日快报》撰稿。现在，你不为自己感到羞耻吗？

‘Why should I be ashamed of myself?’ asked Gabriel, blinking his eyes and trying to smile.
“我为什么要为自己感到羞耻？”加百列问道，眨着眼睛，试图微笑。

‘Well, I’m ashamed of you,’ said Miss Ivors frankly. ‘To say you’d write for a paper like that. I didn’t think you were a West Briton.’
“好吧，我为你感到羞耻，”艾弗斯小姐坦白地说。 “说你会为这样的报纸写文章。我不认为你是西英国人。

A look of perplexity appeared on Gabriel’s face. It was true that he wrote a literary column every Wednesday in The Daily Express, for which he was paid fifteen shillings. But that did not make him a West Briton surely. The books he received for review were almost more welcome than the paltry cheque. He loved to feel the covers and turn over the pages of newly printed books. Nearly every day when his teaching in the college was ended he used to wander down the quays to the second-hand booksellers, to Hickey’s on Bachelor’s Walk, to Web’s or Massey’s on Aston’s Quay, or to O’Clohissey’s in the bystreet. He did not know how to meet her charge. He wanted to say that literature was above politics. But they were friends of many years’ standing and their careers had been parallel, first at the University and then as teachers: he could not risk a grandiose phrase with her. He continued blinking his eyes and trying to smile and murmured lamely that he saw nothing political in writing reviews of books.
加百列的脸上露出了困惑的表情。确实，他每周三在《每日快报》上撰写文学专栏，报酬是十五先令。但这并不一定能让他成为西英国人。他收到的供审阅的书籍几乎比微不足道的支票更受欢迎。他喜欢摸摸新印刷的书籍的封面并翻动书页。几乎每天，当他在学院的教学结束时，他都会沿着码头漫步到二手书店，到学士步行道上的希基书店，到阿斯顿码头的韦布书店或梅西书店，或者到小街上的奥克洛西书店。他不知道如何满足她的要求。他想说文学高于政治。但他们是多年的朋友，他们的职业生涯也很相似，先是在大学，然后当了老师：他不能冒险和她说一些浮夸的话。他继续眨着眼睛，试图微笑，蹩脚地低声说，他在写书评时没有看到任何政治色彩。

When their turn to cross had come he was still perplexed and inattentive. Miss Ivors promptly took his hand in a warm grasp and said in a soft friendly tone:
当轮到他们交叉时，他仍然感到困惑和漫不经心。艾弗丝小姐连忙温暖地握着他的手，语气温柔友善地说道：

‘Of course, I was only joking. Come, we cross now.’
‘当然，我只是开玩笑。来吧，我们现在就过去。

When they were together again she spoke of the University question and Gabriel felt more at ease. A friend of hers had shown her his review of Browning’s poems. That was how she had found out the secret: but she liked the review immensely. Then she said suddenly:
当他们再次聚在一起时，她谈到了大学的问题，加布里埃尔感到更加轻松了。她的一位朋友向她展示了他对勃朗宁诗歌的评论。她就是这样发现这个秘密的：但她非常喜欢这篇评论。然后她突然说道：

‘O, Mr. Conroy, will you come for an excursion to the Aran Isles this summer? We’re going to stay there a whole month. It will be splendid out in the Atlantic. You ought to come. Mr. Clancy is coming, and Mr. Kilkelly and Kathleen Kearney. It would be splendid for Gretta too if she’d come. She’s from Connacht, isn’t she?’
“哦，康罗伊先生，今年夏天您会来阿兰群岛短途旅行吗？”我们要在那里待整整一个月。大西洋上的景色将会非常绚丽。你应该来。克兰西先生来了，还有基尔凯利先生和凯瑟琳·科尔尼先生。如果格蕾塔能来的话，那就太好了。她来自康诺特，不是吗？

‘Her people are,’ said Gabriel shortly.
“她的人民是，”加百列简短地说。

‘But you will come, won’t you?’ said Miss Ivors, laying her arm hand eagerly on his arm.
“但是你会来的，不是吗？”艾弗斯小姐说道，同时急切地把手放在他的胳膊上。

‘The fact is,’ said Gabriel, ‘I have just arranged to go——‘
“事实是，”加百列说，“我刚刚安排去——”

‘Go where?’ asked Miss Ivors.
“去哪儿？”艾弗斯小姐问道。

‘Well, you know, every year I go for a cycling tour with some fellows and so——‘
“嗯，你知道，每年我都会和一些朋友一起去骑自行车旅行，所以——”

‘But where?’ asked Miss Ivors.
“但是在哪里呢？”艾弗斯小姐问道。

‘Well, we usually go to France or Belgium or perhaps Germany,’ said Gabriel awkwardly.
“嗯，我们通常去法国或比利时，或者也许是德国，”加布里埃尔尴尬地说。

‘And why do you go to France and Belgium,’ said Miss Ivors, ‘instead of visiting your own land?’
“那你为什么要去法国和比利时，”艾弗斯小姐说，“而不去你自己的国家？”

‘Well,’ said Gabriel, ‘it’s partly to keep in touch with the languages and partly for a change.’
“嗯，”加布里埃尔说，“一部分是为了与语言保持联系，一部分是为了改变。”

‘And haven’t you your own language to keep in touch with— Irish?’ asked Miss Ivors.
“难道你就没有自己的语言可以保持联系吗——爱尔兰语？”艾弗斯小姐问道。

‘Well,’ said Gabriel, ‘if it comes to that, you know, Irish is not my language.’
“好吧，”加布里埃尔说，“如果说到这一点，你知道，爱尔兰语不是我的语言。”

Their neighbours had turned to listen to the crossexamination. Gabriel glanced right and left nervously and tried to keep his good humour under the ordeal which was making a blush invade his forehead.
他们的邻居转过身去听盘问。加百列紧张地左右看了看，在额头泛起红晕的严酷考验下努力保持着良好的幽默感。

‘And haven’t you your own land to visit,’ continued Miss Ivors, ‘that you know nothing of, your own people, and your own country?’
“难道你没有自己的土地可以参观吗？”艾弗丝小姐继续说道，“你对自己的人民和国家一无所知？”

‘0, to tell you the truth,’ retorted Gabriel suddenly, ‘I’m sick of my own country, sick of it!’
“0，说实话，”加百列突然反驳道，“我厌倦了自己的国家，厌倦了！”

‘Why?’ asked Miss Ivors.
“为什么？”艾弗斯小姐问。

Gabriel did not answer for his retort had heated him.
加百列没有回答，因为他的反驳让他很激动。

‘Why?’ repeated Miss Ivors.
“为什么？”艾弗斯小姐重复道。

They had to go visiting together and, as he had not answered her, Miss Ivors said warmly:
他们不得不一起去拜访，由于他没有回答她，艾弗斯小姐热情地说：

‘Of course, you’ve no answer.’
“当然，你没有答案。”

Gabriel tried to cover his agitation by taking part in the dance with great energy. He avoided her eyes for he had seen a sour expression on her face. But when they met in the long chain he was surprised to feel his hand firmly pressed. She looked at him from under her brows for a moment quizzically until he smiled. Then, just as the chain was about to start again, she stood on tiptoe and whispered into his ear:
加百列试图通过充满活力地参加舞蹈来掩饰自己的激动。他避开了她的目光，因为他看到了她脸上的酸涩表情。但当他们在长链中相遇时，他惊讶地发现自己的手被牢牢地压住了。她从眉毛下疑惑地看了他一会儿，直到他笑了。然后，就在锁链即将再次启动的时候，她踮起脚尖，在他耳边低声说道：

‘West Briton!’
“西英国人！”

When the lancers were over Gabriel went away to a remote corner of the room where Freddy Malins’ mother was sitting. She was a stout feeble old woman with white hair. Her voice had a catch in it like her son’s and she stuttered slightly. She had been told that Freddy had come and that he was nearly all right. Gabriel asked her whether she had had a good crossing. She lived with her married daughter in Glasgow and came to Dublin on a visit once a year. She answered placidly that she had had a beautiful crossing and that the captain had been most attentive to her. She spoke also of the beautiful house her daughter kept in Glasgow, and of all the friends they had there. While her tongue rambled on Gabriel tried to banish from his mind all memory of the unpleasant incident with Miss Ivors. Of course the girl or woman, or whatever she was, was an enthusiast but there was a time for all things. Perhaps he ought not to have answered her like that. But she had no right to call him a West Briton before people, even in joke. She had tried to make him ridiculous before people, heckling him and staring at him with her rabbit’s eyes.
枪骑兵结束后，加布里埃尔走到房间的一个偏僻角落，弗雷迪·马林斯的母亲坐在那儿。她是一位粗壮、虚弱、头发花白的老妇人。她的声音像她儿子一样哽咽，而且有些结巴。她被告知弗雷迪已经来了，而且他几乎一切都好。加布里埃尔问她过得是否顺利。她和已婚的女儿住在格拉斯哥，每年都会来都柏林一次。她平静地回答说，她度过了一次美好的旅程，船长对她非常关心。她还谈到了她女儿在格拉斯哥拥有的美丽的房子，以及他们在那里的所有朋友。当她的舌头在加布里埃尔身上胡言乱语时，加布里埃尔试图从他的脑海中消除与艾弗斯小姐发生的不愉快事件的所有记忆。当然，这个女孩或女人，或者无论她是什么，都是一个热情的人，但凡事都有时间。也许他不应该这样回答她。但她无权在人们面前称他为西英国人，即使是开玩笑。她试图让他在人们面前变得可笑，质问他，用兔子般的眼睛盯着他。

He saw his wife making her way towards him through the waltzing couples. When she reached him she said into his ear:
他看见他的妻子穿过华尔兹舞的情侣向他走来。当她走到他身边时，她在他耳边说道：

‘Gabriel. Aunt Kate wants to know won’t you carve the goose as usual. Miss Daly will carve the ham and I’ll do the pudding.’
‘加百列。凯特阿姨想知道你会像往常一样切鹅吗？戴利小姐会切火腿，我会做布丁。

‘All right,’ said Gabriel.
“好吧，”加百列说。

‘She’s sending in the younger ones first as soon as this waltz is over so that we’ll have the table to ourselves.’
“华尔兹一结束，她就会先送年轻的孩子们进来，这样我们就可以独享餐桌了。”

‘Were you dancing?’ asked Gabriel.
“你在跳舞吗？”加布里埃尔问。

‘Of course I was. Didn’t you see me? What row had you with Molly Ivors?’
“我当然是。”你没看到我吗？你和莫莉·艾弗斯发生了什么争吵？

‘No row. Why? Did she say so?’
‘不吵了。为什么？她是这么说的吗？

‘Something like that. I’m trying to get that Mr. D’Arcy to sing. He’s full of conceit, I think.’
‘类似这样的事情。我正在努力让达西先生唱歌。我认为他充满了自负。

‘There was no row,’ said Gabriel moodily, ‘only she wanted me to go for a trip to the west of Ireland and I said I wouldn’t.’
“没有发生争执，”加布里埃尔郁闷地说，“只是她想让我去爱尔兰西部旅行，但我说我不会。”

His wife clasped her hands excitedly and gave a little jump.
他的妻子兴奋地握紧双手，跳了起来。

‘O, do go, Gabriel,’ she cried. ‘I’d love to see Galway again.’
“哦，走吧，加布里埃尔，”她喊道。 “我很想再次见到戈尔韦。”

‘You can go if you like,’ said Gabriel coldly.
“你愿意就可以走。”加百列冷冷地说。

She looked at him for a moment, then turned to Mrs. Malins and said:
她看了他一会儿，然后转向马林斯太太说：

‘There’s a nice husband for you, Mrs. Malins.’
“马林斯太太，你有一个好丈夫。”

While she was threading her way back across the room Mrs. Malins, without adverting to the interruption, went on to tell Gabriel what beautiful places there were in Scotland and beautiful scenery. Her son-in-law brought them every year to the lakes and they used to go fishing. Her son-in-law was a splendid fisher. One day he caught a beautiful big fish and the man in the hotel cooked it for their dinner.
当她穿过房间走回来时，马林斯夫人没有注意到打扰，继续告诉加布里埃尔苏格兰有哪些美丽的地方和美丽的风景。她的女婿每年都会带他们去湖边钓鱼。她的女婿是一位出色的渔夫。有一天，他钓到了一条漂亮的大鱼，旅馆里的人把它煮了作为他们的晚餐。

Gabriel hardly heard what she said. Now that supper was coming near he began to think again about his speech and about the quotation. When he saw Freddy Malins coming across the room to visit his mother Gabriel left the chair free for him and retired into the embrasure of the window. The room had already cleared and from the back room came the clatter of plates and knives. Those who still remained in the drawing room seemed tired of dancing and were conversing quietly in little groups. Gabriel’s warm trembling fingers tapped the cold pane of the window. How cool it must be outside! How pleasant it would be to walk out alone, first along by the river and then through the park! The snow would be lying on the branches of the trees and forming a bright cap on the top of the Wellington Monument. How much more pleasant it would be there than at the supper-table!
加百列几乎没听见她说什么。现在晚饭快到了，他开始重新思考他的演讲和引文。当他看到弗雷迪·马林斯穿过房间来看望他的母亲时，加布里埃尔把椅子留给了他，然后退到了窗户的射孔里。房间里已经清理干净了，后面的房间里传来盘子和刀子的碰撞声。留在客厅里的人似乎厌倦了跳舞，三五成群地小声交谈。加百列温暖而颤抖的手指敲击着冰冷的窗玻璃。外面一定很凉爽吧！一个人出去散步，先沿着河边，然后穿过公园，该是多么愉快啊！雪会落在树枝上，在惠灵顿纪念碑的顶部形成一顶明亮的帽子。在那里比在晚饭桌上要愉快得多！

He ran over the headings of his speech: Irish hospitality, sad memories, the Three Graces, Paris, the quotation from Browning. He repeated to himself a phrase he had written in his review: ‘One feels that one is listening to a thoughttormented music.’ Miss Ivors had praised the review. Was she sincere? Had she really any life of her own behind all her propagandism? There had never been any ill-feeling between them until that night. It unnerved him to think that she would be at the supper-table, looking up at him while he spoke with her critical quizzing eyes. Perhaps she would not be sorry to see him fail in his speech. An idea came into his mind and gave him courage. He would say, alluding to Aunt Kate and Aunt Julia: ‘Ladies and Gentlemen, the generation which is now on the wane among us may have had its faults but for my part I think it had certain qualities of hospitality, of humour, of humanity, which the new and very serious and hypereducated generation that is growing up around us seems to me to lack.’ Very good: that was one for Miss Ivors. What did he care that his aunts were only two ignorant old women?
他回顾了演讲的标题：爱尔兰的热情好客、悲伤的回忆、美惠三女神、巴黎、布朗宁的名言。他对自己重复了他在评论中写下的一句话：“人们感觉自己正在听一首折磨人的音乐。”艾弗斯小姐称赞了这篇评论。她是真诚的吗？在她所有的宣传背后，她真的有自己的生活吗？在那一晚之前，他们之间从未有过任何芥蒂。想到她会在晚饭桌上，当他用挑剔的眼神说话时，她会抬头看着他，这让他感到不安。或许她不会因为他演讲失败而感到遗憾。一个想法出现在他的脑海里，给了他勇气。他会在提到凯特姨妈和朱莉娅姨妈时说：“女士们，先生们，我们中间正在衰落的这一代人可能有其缺点，但就我而言，我认为他们具有热情好客、幽默和人性的某些品质。” ，在我看来，我们周围成长起来的、非常严肃、受过良好教育的新一代缺乏这种能力。”非常好：这是艾弗斯小姐的一个。他的姑姑不过是两个无知的老太婆，他又何在意呢？

A murmur in the room attracted his attention. Mr. Browne was advancing from the door, gallantly escorting Aunt Julia, who leaned upon his arm, smiling and hanging her head. An irregular musketry of applause escorted her also as far as the piano and then, as Mary Jane seated herself on the stool, and Aunt Julia, no longer smiling, half turned so as to pitch her voice fairly into the room, gradually ceased. Gabriel recognised the prelude. It was that of an old song of Aunt Julia’s—Arrayed for the Bridal. Her voice, strong and clear in tone, attacked with great spirit the runs which embellish the air and though she sang very rapidly she did not miss even the smallest of the grace notes. To follow the voice, without looking at the singer’s face, was to feel and share the excitement of swift and secure flight. Gabriel applauded loudly with all the others at the close of the song and loud applause was borne in from the invisible supper-table. It sounded so genuine that a little colour struggled into Aunt Julia’s face as she bent to replace in the music-stand the old leather-bound songbook that had her initials on the cover. Freddy Malins, who had listened with his head perched sideways to hear her better, was still applauding when everyone else had ceased and talking animatedly to his mother who nodded her head gravely and slowly in acquiescence. At last, when he could clap no more, he stood up suddenly and hurried across the room to Aunt Julia whose hand he seized and held in both his hands, shaking it when words failed him or the catch in his voice proved too much for him.
房间里的一阵窃窃私语引起了他的注意。布朗先生从门口走出来，殷勤地护送着朱莉娅姨妈，朱莉娅姨妈靠在他的手臂上，微笑着低着头。一阵不规则的枪声般的掌声也伴随着她一直走到钢琴前，然后，当玛丽·简坐到凳子上时，朱莉娅姨妈不再微笑，半转过身，以便将她的声音公平地传到房间里，渐渐停止了。加百列认出了前奏。这是朱莉娅姨妈的一首老歌——为新娘准备的歌。她的声音有力而清晰，以极大的精神攻击着点缀空气的跑步，虽然她唱得很快，但她没有错过哪怕是最小的装饰音。跟随声音，而不看歌手的脸，就是感受和分享快速、安全飞行的兴奋。歌曲结束时，加布里埃尔和其他人一起大声鼓掌，看不见的餐桌上也响起了热烈的掌声。这听起来如此真诚，以至于朱莉娅姨妈弯腰把封面上印有她姓名首字母的旧皮面歌本放回乐谱架上，脸上泛起一丝红晕。弗雷迪·马林斯侧着头听她说得更清楚，当其他人都停止时，他仍在鼓掌，并热情地与他的母亲交谈，母亲严肃而缓慢地点头表示默许。最后，当他再也无法鼓掌时，他突然站起来，匆匆穿过房间，走到朱莉娅姨妈身边，他抓住朱莉娅姨妈的手，用双手握住，当他无法言语或声音中的哽咽对他来说太过沉重时，他摇晃着它。 。

‘I was just telling my mother,’ he said, ‘I never heard you sing so well, never. No, I never heard your voice so good as it is tonight. Now! Would you believe that now? That’s the truth. Upon my word and honour that’s the truth. I never heard your voice sound so fresh and so... so clear and fresh, never.’
“我只是告诉我妈妈，”他说，“我从来没有听过你唱得这么好，从来没有。”不，我从来没有听过你的声音像今晚这么好听。现在！现在你会相信吗？这是事实。以我的诺言和名誉担保，这就是事实。我从来没有听过你的声音听起来如此新鲜、如此……如此清晰、如此新鲜，从来没有。”

Aunt Julia smiled broadly and murmured something about compliments as she released her hand from his grasp. Mr. Browne extended his open hand towards her and said to those who were near him in the manner of a showman introducing a prodigy to an audience:
朱莉娅姨妈放开了他的手，脸上露出灿烂的笑容，低声说了一些恭维的话。布朗先生向她伸出张开的手，以表演者向观众介绍神童的方式对身边的人说道：

‘Miss Julia Morkan, my latest discovery!’
“朱莉娅·莫坎小姐，我的最新发现！”

He was laughing very heartily at this himself when Freddy Malins turned to him and said:
当弗雷迪·马林斯转向他说：

‘Well, Browne, if you’re serious you might make a worse discovery. All I can say is I never heard her sing half so well as long as I am coming here. And that’s the honest truth.’
“好吧，布朗，如果你认真的话，你可能会发现更糟糕的发现。我只能说，自从我来这里以来，我从来没有听过她唱歌这么好。这就是诚实的事实。

‘Neither did I,’ said Mr. Browne. ‘I think her voice has greatly improved.’
“我也没有，”布朗先生说。 “我认为她的声音已经大大改善了。”

Aunt Julia shrugged her shoulders and said with meek pride:
朱莉娅姨妈耸了耸肩，温顺而自豪地说：

‘Thirty years ago I hadn’t a bad voice as voices go.’
“三十年前，我的声音还算不错。”

‘I often told Julia,’ said Aunt Kate emphatically, ‘that she was simply thrown away in that choir. But she never would be said by me.’
“我经常告诉朱莉娅，”凯特姨妈强调说，“她只是被扔进了唱诗班。但我永远不会说她。

She turned as if to appeal to the good sense of the others against a refractory child while Aunt Julia gazed in front of her, a vague smile of reminiscence playing on her face.
她转过身来，仿佛是在呼吁其他人对一个顽固的孩子保持良好的判断力，而朱莉娅姨妈则凝视着她的前方，脸上浮现出一丝回忆的模糊微笑。

‘No,’ continued Aunt Kate, ‘she wouldn’t be said or led by anyone, slaving there in that choir night and day, night and day. Six o’clock on Christmas morning! And all for what?’
“不，”凯特姨妈继续说道，“她不会被任何人说或引导，日日夜夜地在唱诗班里做苦工。圣诞节早上六点！这一切都是为了什么呢？

‘Well, isn’t it for the honour of God, Aunt Kate?’ asked Mary Jane, twisting round on the piano-stool and smiling.
“好吧，这不是为了上帝的荣耀吗，凯特姨妈？”玛丽·简在钢琴凳上转过身来，微笑着问道。

Aunt Kate turned fiercely on her niece and said:
凯特姨妈恶狠狠地转向她的侄女说道：

‘I know all about the honour of God, Mary Jane, but I think it’s not at all honourable for the pope to turn out the women out of the choirs that have slaved there all their lives and put little whipper-snappers of boys over their heads. I suppose it is for the good of the Church if the pope does it. But it’s not just, Mary Jane, and it’s not right.’
“我知道上帝的荣耀，玛丽·简，但我认为教皇将那些一生都在唱诗班里为奴的妇女赶出唱诗班，并把那些自吹自擂的小男孩放在她们的唱诗班上，这是一点也不光荣的。”头。我认为如果教皇这样做，那是为了教会的利益。但这不仅仅是玛丽·简，而且这是不对的。”

She had worked herself into a passion and would have continued in defence of her sister for it was a sore subject with her but Mary Jane, seeing that all the dancers had come back, intervened pacifically:
她已经投入了热情，并会继续捍卫她的妹妹，因为这对她来说是一个痛苦的话题，但玛丽·简看到所有舞者都回来了，平静地介入：

‘Now, Aunt Kate, you’re giving scandal to Mr. Browne who is of the other persuasion.’
“现在，凯特姨妈，你正在给持不同观点的布朗先生带来丑闻。”

Aunt Kate turned to Mr. Browne, who was grinning at this allusion to his religion, and said hastily:
凯特姨妈转向布朗先生，他因这种对宗教的暗示而笑了，她急忙说道：

‘O, I don’t question the pope’s being right. I’m only a stupid old woman and I wouldn’t presume to do such a thing. But there’s such a thing as common everyday politeness and gratitude. And if I were in Julia’s place I’d tell that Father Healey straight up to his face...’
‘哦，我不怀疑教皇的正确性。我只是一个愚蠢的老太婆，我不会做出这样的事。但有一种常见的日常礼貌和感激之情。如果我处在朱莉娅的位置，我会当面告诉希利神父……”

‘And besides, Aunt Kate,’ said Mary Jane, ‘we really are all hungry and when we are hungry we are all very quarrelsome.’
“而且，凯特姨妈，”玛丽·简说，“我们真的都很饿，而且当我们饿了的时候，我们都很吵架。”

‘And when we are thirsty we are also quarrelsome,’ added Mr. Browne.
“当我们口渴时，我们也会吵架，”布朗先生补充道。

‘So that we had better go to supper,’ said Mary Jane, ‘and finish the discussion afterwards.’
“所以我们最好去吃晚饭，”玛丽·简说，“然后再结束讨论​​。”

On the landing outside the drawing-room Gabriel found his wife and Mary Jane trying to persuade Miss Ivors to stay for supper. But Miss Ivors, who had put on her hat and was buttoning her cloak, would not stay. She did not feel in the least hungry and she had already overstayed her time.
在客厅外的楼梯平台上，加布里埃尔发现他的妻子和玛丽·简正试图说服艾弗斯小姐留下来吃晚饭。但艾弗斯小姐已经戴上帽子，扣上斗篷的扣子，不会留下来。她一点也不觉得饿，而且已经逾期了。

‘But only for ten minutes, Molly,’ said Mrs. Conroy. ‘That won’t delay you.’
“但是只有十分钟，莫莉，”康罗伊夫人说。 “那不会耽误你的。”

‘To take a pick itself,’ said Mary Jane, ‘after all your dancing.’
“在你跳舞之后，自己挑选一下，”玛丽·简说。

‘I really couldn’t,’ said Miss Ivors.
“我真的不能，”艾弗斯小姐说。

‘I am afraid you didn’t enjoy yourself at all,’ said Mary Jane hopelessly.
“恐怕你一点也不开心。”玛丽·简绝望地说。

‘Ever so much, I assure you,’ said Miss Ivors, ‘but you really must let me run off now.’
“我向你保证，”艾弗斯小姐说，“但你现在真的必须让我跑掉。”

‘But how can you get home?’ asked Mrs. Conroy.
“但是你怎么才能回家呢？”康罗伊夫人问道。

‘O, it’s only two steps up the quay.’
“噢，走上码头只有两级台阶。”

Gabriel hesitated a moment and said:
加百列犹豫了一下说道：

‘If you will allow me, Miss Ivors, I’ll see you home if you are really obliged to go.’
“如果你允许的话，艾弗斯小姐，如果你真的不得不走的话，我会送你回家。”

But Miss Ivors broke away from them.
但艾弗斯小姐却脱离了他们。

‘I won’t hear of it,’ she cried. ‘For goodness’ sake go in to your suppers and don’t mind me. I’m quite well able to take care of myself.’
“我不会听的，”她哭道。老天爷，快去吃晚饭吧，别介意我。我能够很好地照顾自己。

‘Well, you’re the comical girl, Molly,’ said Mrs. Conroy frankly.
“嗯，你就是那个滑稽的女孩，莫莉，”康罗伊夫人坦白地说。

‘Beannacht libh,’ cried Miss Ivors, with a laugh, as she ran down the staircase.
“Beannacht libh，”艾弗斯小姐一边跑下楼梯，一边笑着喊道。

Mary Jane gazed after her, a moody puzzled expression on her face, while Mrs. Conroy leaned over the banisters to listen for the hall-door. Gabriel asked himself was he the cause of her abrupt departure. But she did not seem to be in ill humour: she had gone away laughing. He stared blankly down the staircase.
玛丽·简凝视着她的身后，脸上露出忧郁而困惑的表情，而康罗伊夫人则靠在栏杆上听着大厅的门声。加布里埃尔问自己，她突然离开是不是他造成的。但她似乎并没有心情不好：她笑着走开了。他茫然地看着楼梯下。

At the moment Aunt Kate came toddling out of the supper-room, almost wringing her hands in despair.
就在这时，凯特姨妈摇摇晃晃地走出晚餐室，几乎绝望地绞着双手。

‘Where is Gabriel?’ she cried. ‘Where on earth is Gabriel? There’s everyone waiting in there, stage to let, and nobody to carve the goose!’
“加布里埃尔在哪儿？”她喊道。 “加百列到底在哪里？每个人都在那里等着，舞台出租，却没有人来切鹅！

‘Here I am, Aunt Kate!’ cried Gabriel, with sudden animation, ‘ready to carve a flock of geese, if necessary.’
“我在这里，凯特姨妈！”加布里埃尔突然兴奋地喊道，“如果有必要的话，我已经准备好切一群鹅了。”

A fat brown goose lay at one end of the table and at the other end, on a bed of creased paper strewn with sprigs of parsley, lay a great ham, stripped of its outer skin and peppered over with crust crumbs, a neat paper frill round its shin and beside this was a round of spiced beef. Between these rival ends ran parallel lines of side-dishes: two little minsters of jelly, red and yellow; a shallow dish full of blocks of blancmange and red jam, a large green leaf-shaped dish with a stalk-shaped handle, on which lay bunches of purple raisins and peeled almonds, a companion dish on which lay a solid rectangle of Smyrna figs, a dish of custard topped with grated nutmeg, a small bowl full of chocolates and sweets wrapped in gold and silver papers and a glass vase in which stood some tall celery stalks. In the centre of the table there stood, as sentries to a fruit-stand which upheld a pyramid of oranges and American apples, two squat old-fashioned decanters of cut glass, one containing port and the other dark sherry. On the closed square piano a pudding in a huge yellow dish lay in waiting and behind it were three squads of bottles of stout and ale and minerals, drawn up according to the colours of their uniforms, the first two black, with brown and red labels, the third and smallest squad white, with transverse green sashes.
桌子的一端放着一只肥硕的棕色鹅，另一端的一张铺着折痕纸的床上撒满了欧芹小枝，放着一根大火腿，剥掉了外皮，上面撒满了面包屑，整齐的纸褶边围绕着它的小腿，旁边是一圈五香牛肉。在这对立的两端之间，有一排平行的配菜：两个小果冻，红色和黄色；一个浅盘，里面装满了牛奶冻和红果酱块，一个大绿叶形盘，有茎状手柄，上面放着一串紫色葡萄干和去皮杏仁，一个配套盘，上面放着一块实心的长方形士麦那无花果，一盘上面铺有磨碎的肉豆蔻的蛋奶冻，一个装满巧克力和糖果的小碗，用金银纸包裹着，还有一个玻璃花瓶，里面插着一些高高的芹菜茎。桌子中央站着两个矮矮的老式雕花玻璃醒酒器，一个盛着波特酒，另一个盛着深色雪利酒，就像水果摊上的哨兵一样，水果摊上摆满了橙子和美国苹果。在封闭的方形钢琴上，一个巨大的黄色盘子里的布丁正在等待着，后面是三组黑啤酒、麦芽酒和矿物质瓶，根据他们制服的颜色绘制，前两个是黑色的，带有棕色和红色的标签，第三个也是最小的小队白色，带有横向绿色腰带。

Gabriel took his seat boldly at the head of the table and, having looked to the edge of the carver, plunged his fork firmly into the goose. He felt quite at ease now for he was an expert carver and liked nothing better than to find himself at the head of a well-laden table.
加布里埃尔大胆地坐在桌首，看了看切肉师的边缘，然后将叉子牢牢地插入了鹅肉中。他现在感到很自在，因为他是一位专业的雕刻师，最喜欢的莫过于发现自己坐在一张摆满食物的桌子的一头。

‘Miss Furlong, what shall I send you?’ he asked. ‘A wing or a slice of the breast?’
“弗隆小姐，我该送你什么？”他问道。 “一块翅膀还是一块胸肉？”

‘Just a small slice of the breast.’
“只是一小块乳房。”

‘Miss Higgins, what for you?’
“希金斯小姐，你有什么事吗？”

‘O, anything at all, Mr. Conroy.’
“哦，什么都可以，康罗伊先生。”

While Gabriel and Miss Daly exchanged plates of goose and plates of ham and spiced beef Lily went from guest to guest with a dish of hot floury potatoes wrapped in a white napkin. This was Mary Jane’s idea and she had also suggested apple sauce for the goose but Aunt Kate had said that plain roast goose without any apple sauce had always been good enough for her and she hoped she might never eat worse. Mary Jane waited on her pupils and saw that they got the best slices and Aunt Kate and Aunt Julia opened and carried across from the piano bottles of stout and ale for the gentlemen and bottles of minerals for the ladies. There was a great deal of confusion and laughter and noise, the noise of orders and counter-orders, of knives and forks, of corks and glass-stoppers. Gabriel began to carve second helpings as soon as he had finished the first round without serving himself. Everyone protested loudly so that he compromised by taking a long draught of stout for he had found the carving hot work. Mary Jane settled down quietly to her supper but Aunt Kate and Aunt Julia were still toddling round the table, walking on each other’s heels, getting in each other’s way and giving each other unheeded orders. Mr. Browne begged of them to sit down and eat their suppers and so did Gabriel but they said there was time enough, so that, at last, Freddy Malins stood up and, capturing Aunt Kate, plumped her down on her chair amid general laughter.
当加布里埃尔和戴利小姐交换几盘鹅肉、几盘火腿和五香牛肉时，莉莉端着一盘裹着白餐巾的热土豆泥，从一位客人走到另一位客人。这是玛丽·简的主意，她还建议给鹅配苹果酱，但凯特阿姨说，不加苹果酱的纯烤鹅对她来说已经足够好了，她希望自己永远不要吃得更糟糕。玛丽·简等待着她的学生，看到他们得到了最好的切片，凯特姨妈和朱莉娅姨妈打开并从钢琴上拿来了男士们的黑啤酒和麦芽酒，女士们的矿泉水瓶。周围充满了混乱、笑声和噪音，命令和反命令、刀叉、软木塞和玻璃塞的噪音。加布里埃尔一完成第一轮就开始切第二份，但没有给自己上菜。大家大声抗议，他妥协了，喝了一大口黑啤酒，因为他觉得雕刻很热门。玛丽·简安静地坐下来吃晚饭，但凯特姨妈和朱莉娅姨妈仍然绕着桌子摇摇晃晃地走着，互相踩着对方的脚后跟走，互相妨碍，互相不理睬对方的命令。布朗先生恳求他们坐下来吃晚饭，加布里埃尔也坐下来，但他们说时间足够，所以，最后，弗雷迪·马林斯站了起来，抓住了凯特姨妈，在一片笑声中把她按倒在椅子上。 。

When everyone had been well served Gabriel said, smiling:
当每个人都得到很好的服务后，加百列微笑着说道：

‘Now, if anyone wants a little more of what vulgar people call stuffing let him or her speak.’
“现在，如果有人想要更多一点粗俗的人所说的馅料，就让他或她说吧。”

A chorus of voices invited him to begin his own supper and Lily came forward with three potatoes which she had reserved for him.
大家齐声邀请他开始吃晚饭，莉莉拿着她为他保留的三个土豆走上前来。

‘Very well,’ said Gabriel amiably, as he took another preparatory draught, ‘kindly forget my existence, ladies and gentlemen, for a few minutes.’
“很好，”加百列一边和蔼地说，一边又喝了一口预备药，“女士们先生们，请暂时忘记我的存在。”

He set to his supper and took no part in the conversation with which the table covered Lily’s removal of the plates. The subject of talk was the opera company which was then at the Theatre Royal. Mr. Bartell D’Arcy, the tenor, a darkcomplexioned young man with a smart moustache, praised very highly the leading contralto of the company but Miss Furlong thought she had a rather vulgar style of production. Freddy Malins said there was a Negro chieftain singing in the second part of the Gaiety pantomime who had one of the finest tenor voices he had ever heard.
他开始吃晚饭，没有参与桌子上莉莉拿盘子的谈话。谈话的主题是当时在皇家剧院的歌剧团。男高音巴特尔·达西先生是一位肤色黝黑、留着漂亮小胡子的年轻人，他对剧团的首席女低音高度赞扬，但弗隆小姐认为她的制作风格相当粗俗。弗雷迪·马林斯说，欢乐哑剧的第二部分中有一位黑人酋长在唱歌，他的男高音是他听过的最美妙的声音之一。

‘Have you heard him?’ he asked Mr. Bartell D’Arcy across the table.
“你听到他的声音了吗？”他问桌子对面的巴特尔·达西先生。

‘No,’ answered Mr. Bartell D’Arcy carelessly.
“不，”巴特尔·达西先生漫不经心地回答。

‘Because,’ Freddy Malins explained, ‘now I’d be curious to hear your opinion of him. I think he has a grand voice.’
“因为，”弗雷迪·马林斯解释道，“现在我很想听听你对他的看法。我认为他的声音很大。

‘It takes Teddy to find out the really good things,’ said Mr. Browne familiarly to the table.
“只有泰迪才能发现真正好的东西，”布朗先生对着桌子熟悉地说。

‘And why couldn’t he have a voice too?’ asked Freddy Malins sharply. ‘Is it because he’s only a black?’
“为什么他就不能发出声音呢？”弗雷迪·马林斯尖锐地问道。 “因为他只是黑人吗？”

Nobody answered this question and Mary Jane led the table back to the legitimate opera. One of her pupils had given her a pass for Mignon. Of course it was very fine, she said, but it made her think of poor Georgina Burns. Mr. Browne could go back farther still, to the old Italian companies that used to come to Dublin—Tietjens, Ilma de Murzka, Campanini, the great Trebelli, Giuglini, Ravelli, Aramburo. Those were the days, he said, when there was something like singing to be heard in Dublin. He told too of how the top gallery of the old Royal used to be packed night after night, of how one night an Italian tenor had sung five encores to Let me like a Soldier fall, introducing a high C every time, and of how the gallery boys would sometimes in their enthusiasm unyoke the horses from the carriage of some great prima donna and pull her themselves through the streets to her hotel. Why did they never play the grand old operas now, he asked, Dinorah, Lucrezia Borgia? Because they could not get the voices to sing them: that was why.
没有人回答这个问题，玛丽·简带领大家回到了正统的歌剧上。她的一个学生给了她一张米尼翁的通行证。当然，这很好，她说，但这让她想起了可怜的乔治娜·伯恩斯。布朗先生还可以追溯到更远的地方，回到曾经来到都柏林的意大利老牌公司——Tietjens、Ilma de Murzka、Campanini、伟大的 Trebelli、Giuglini、Ravelli、Aramburo。他说，那些日子里，都柏林可以听到类似歌声的声音。他还讲述了旧皇家酒店的顶层画廊如何夜复一夜地挤满了人，一个意大利男高音如何在一个晚上安可了五首《让我像士兵一样倒下》，每次都引入高C，以及如何画廊里的小伙子们有时会热情地从某个伟大的首席女主角的马车上解开马匹，拉着她穿过街道到她的旅馆。他问道，为什么他们现在不再演奏古老的歌剧《黛诺拉》、《卢克雷齐娅·博吉亚》？因为他们找不到声音来唱歌：这就是原因。

‘Oh, well,’ said Mr. Bartell D’Arcy, ‘I presume there are as good singers today as there were then.’
“哦，好吧，”巴特尔·达西先生说，“我想今天的歌手和当时一样优秀。”

‘Where are they?’ asked Mr. Browne defiantly.
“他们在哪儿？”布朗先生挑衅地问道。

‘In London, Paris, Milan,’ said Mr. Bartell D’Arcy warmly. ‘I suppose Caruso, for example, is quite as good, if not better than any of the men you have mentioned.’
“在伦敦、巴黎、米兰，”巴特尔·达西先生热情地说。 “例如，我认为卡鲁索与你提到的任何一个人一样好，甚至更好。”

‘Maybe so,’ said Mr. Browne. ‘But I may tell you I doubt it strongly.’
“也许是这样，”布朗先生说。 “但我可以告诉你，我对此表示强烈怀疑。”

‘O, I’d give anything to hear Caruso sing,’ said Mary Jane.
“哦，为了听卡鲁索唱歌，我愿意付出任何代价，”玛丽·简说。

‘For me,’ said Aunt Kate, who had been picking a bone, ‘there was only one tenor. To please me, I mean. But I suppose none of you ever heard of him.’
“对我来说，”一直在挑骨头的凯特姨妈说，“只有一个男高音。我的意思是为了取悦我。但我想你们都没有听说过他。

‘Who was he, Miss Morkan?’ asked Mr. Bartell D’Arcy politely.
“莫坎小姐，他是谁？”巴特尔·达西先生礼貌地问道。

‘His name,’ said Aunt Kate, ‘was Parkinson. I heard him when he was in his prime and I think he had then the purest tenor voice that was ever put into a man’s throat.’
“他的名字，”凯特姨妈说，“是帕金森。”我在他巅峰时期听过他的歌，我认为他当时拥有最纯净的男高音嗓音。

‘Strange,’ said Mr. Bartell D’Arcy. ‘I never even heard of him.’
“奇怪，”巴特尔·达西先生说。 “我什至从未听说过他。”

‘Yes, yes, Miss Morkan is right,’ said Mr. Browne. ‘I remember hearing of old Parkinson but he’s too far back for me.’
“是的，是的，莫坎小姐是对的，”布朗先生说。 “我记得听说过老帕金森，但他对我来说太遥远了。”

‘A beautiful, pure, sweet, mellow English tenor,’ said Aunt Kate with enthusiasm.
“一位美丽、纯洁、甜美、醇厚的英国男高音。”凯特姨妈热情地说。

Gabriel having finished, the huge pudding was transferred to the table. The clatter of forks and spoons began again. Gabriel’s wife served out spoonfuls of the pudding and passed the plates down the table. Midway down they were held up by Mary Jane, who replenished them with raspberry or orange jelly or with blancmange and jam. The pudding was of Aunt Julia’s making and she received praises for it from all quarters She herself said that it was not quite brown enough.
加百列说完，巨大的布丁就被转移到了桌子上。叉子和勺子的碰撞声又开始了。加布里埃尔的妻子盛了几勺布丁，然后把盘子递到桌子上。中途，玛丽·简把它们举起来，她给它们补充了覆盆子或橙子果冻，或者牛奶冻和果酱。布丁是朱莉娅姨妈做的，她因此受到了各方的称赞。她自己说布丁不够棕色。

‘Well, I hope, Miss Morkan,’ said Mr. Browne, ‘that I’m brown enough for you because, you know, I’m all brown.’
“嗯，莫坎小姐，我希望，”布朗先生说，“我的棕色皮肤对你来说足够了，因为，你知道，我全身都是棕色的。”

All the gentlemen, except Gabriel, ate some of the pudding out of compliment to Aunt Julia. As Gabriel never ate sweets the celery had been left for him. Freddy Malins also took a stalk of celery and ate it with his pudding. He had been told that celery was a capital thing for the blood and he was just then under doctor’s care. Mrs. Malins, who had been silent all through the supper, said that her son was going down to Mount Melleray in a week or so. The table then spoke of Mount Melleray, how bracing the air was down there, how hospitable the monks were and how they never asked for a penny-piece from their guests.
除了加布里埃尔之外，所有的绅士都出于对朱莉娅阿姨的恭维而吃了一些布丁。由于加百列从来不吃甜食，芹菜就留给了他。弗雷迪·马林斯也拿了一根芹菜和布丁一起吃。有人告诉他芹菜是补血的必需品，当时他正在接受医生的治疗。马林斯太太在整个晚餐过程中一直保持沉默，她说她的儿子将在一周左右的时间内前往梅勒雷山。随后，桌上的人谈到了梅勒雷山，那里的空气多么清新，僧侣们多么热情好客，他们从不向客人要一分钱。

‘And do you mean to say,’ asked Mr. Browne incredulously, ‘that a chap can go down there and put up there as if it were a hotel and live on the fat of the land and then come away without paying anything?’
“你的意思是说，”布朗先生难以置信地问道，“一个小伙子可以去那里，住在那里，就好像那里是一家旅馆，靠肥沃的土地生活，然后不付任何钱就走开？”

‘O, most people give some donation to the monastery when they leave.’ said Mary Jane.
“哦，大多数人离开时都会给修道院一些捐款。”玛丽·简说。

‘I wish we had an institution like that in our Church,’ said Mr. Browne candidly.
“我希望我们的教会有一个这样的机构，”布朗先生坦率地说。

He was astonished to hear that the monks never spoke, got up at two in the morning and slept in their coffins. He asked what they did it for.
他惊讶地发现僧侣们从来不说话，凌晨两点就起床，睡在棺材里。他问他们这样做是为了什么。

‘That’s the rule of the order,’ said Aunt Kate firmly.
“这是修会的规矩。”凯特姨妈坚定地说。

‘Yes, but why?’ asked Mr. Browne.
“是的，但是为什么呢？”布朗先生问道。

Aunt Kate repeated that it was the rule, that was all. Mr. Browne still seemed not to understand. Freddy Malins explained to him, as best he could, that the monks were trying to make up for the sins committed by all the sinners in the outside world. The explanation was not very clear for Mr. Browne grinned and said:
凯特姨妈重复说这是规矩，仅此而已。布朗先生似乎还是不明白。弗雷迪·马林斯尽其所能地向他解释说，僧​​侣们正在努力弥补外界所有罪人所犯下的罪过。解释不太清楚，布朗先生笑道：

‘I like that idea very much but wouldn’t a comfortable spring bed do them as well as a coffin?’
“我非常喜欢这个主意，但是一张舒适的弹簧床难道不能像棺材一样对他们有用吗？”

‘The coffin,’ said Mary Jane, ‘is to remind them of their last end.’
“棺材，”玛丽·简说，“是为了提醒他们最后的结局。”

As the subject had grown lugubrious it was buried in a silence of the table during which Mrs. Malins could be heard saying to her neighbour in an indistinct undertone:
由于这个话题变得令人悲伤，所以餐桌上一片寂静，可以听到马林斯太太用含糊不清的低声对她的邻居说：

‘They are very good men, the monks, very pious men.’
“僧侣们都是非常好的人，非常虔诚的人。”

The raisins and almonds and figs and apples and oranges and chocolates and sweets were now passed about the table and Aunt Julia invited all the guests to have either port or sherry. At first Mr. Bartell D’Arcy refused to take either but one of his neighbours nudged him and whispered something to him upon which he allowed his glass to be filled. Gradually as the last glasses were being filled the conversation ceased. A pause followed, broken only by the noise of the wine and by unsettlings of chairs. The Misses Morkan, all three, looked down at the tablecloth. Someone coughed once or twice and then a few gentlemen patted the table gently as a signal for silence. The silence came and Gabriel pushed back his chair.
葡萄干、杏仁、无花果、苹果、橙子、巧克力和糖果现在在桌子上传递，朱莉娅阿姨邀请所有客人喝波特酒或雪利酒。起初，巴特尔·达西先生拒绝接受，但他的一位邻居推了推他，低声对他说了些什么，然后他就给自己的杯子倒满了酒。渐渐地，当最后一杯酒倒满时，谈话停止了。接下来是一阵停顿，只听见酒声和椅子的摇晃声。莫坎小姐三人都低头看着桌布。有人咳嗽了一两声，然后几位绅士轻轻拍了拍桌子，示意安静。一片寂静，加百列把椅子往后一推。

The patting at once grew louder in encouragement and then ceased altogether. Gabriel leaned his ten trembling fingers on the tablecloth and smiled nervously at the company. Meeting a row of upturned faces he raised his eyes to the chandelier. The piano was playing a waltz tune and he could hear the skirts sweeping against the drawing-room door. People, perhaps, were standing in the snow on the quay outside, gazing up at the lighted windows and listening to the waltz music. The air was pure there. In the distance lay the park where the trees were weighted with snow. The Wellington Monument wore a gleaming cap of snow that flashed westward over the white field of Fifteen Acres.
鼓励的拍打声立即变大，然后完全停止。加百列将十根颤抖的手指靠在桌布上，紧张地对着大家微笑。遇到一排仰起的脸，他抬起眼睛看向枝形吊灯。钢琴正在演奏华尔兹曲子，他能听到裙子扫过客厅门的声音。也许，人们正站在外面码头的雪地里，凝视着亮着灯的窗户，听着华尔兹音乐。那里的空气很纯净。远处是公园，树上积满了积雪。惠灵顿纪念碑戴着一顶闪闪发光的雪帽，在十五英亩的白色田野上向西闪烁。

He began:
他开始：

‘Ladies and Gentlemen,
'女士们，先生们，

‘It has fallen to my lot this evening, as in years past, to perform a very pleasing task but a task for which I am afraid my poor powers as a speaker are all too inadequate.’
“和往年一样，今天晚上我的任务是完成一项非常令人愉快的任务，但我担心我作为演讲者的能力不足以完成这项任务。”

‘No, no!’ said Mr. Browne.
“不，不！”布朗先生说。

‘But, however that may be, I can only ask you tonight to take the will for the deed and to lend me your attention for a few moments while I endeavour to express to you in words what my feelings are on this occasion.
“但是，无论如何，今晚我只能请你接受这件事的意愿，并在我努力用语言向你表达我此时的感受时，请你注意我一会儿。”

‘Ladies and Gentlemen, it is not the first time that we have gathered together under this hospitable roof, around this hospitable board. It is not the first time that we have been the recipients—or perhaps, I had better say, the victims—of the hospitality of certain good ladies.’
“女士们、先生们，这并不是我们第一次聚集在这个热情好客的屋顶下，围绕着这个热情好客的董事会。这并不是我们第一次受到某些好女士的热情款待，或者，我最好说，是受害者。”

He made a circle in the air with his arm and paused. Everyone laughed or smiled at Aunt Kate and Aunt Julia and Mary Jane who all turned crimson with pleasure. Gabriel went on more boldly:
他手臂在空中画了一个圈，然后停了下来。每个人都对凯特姨妈、朱莉娅姨妈和玛丽·简大笑或微笑，她们都高兴得脸红了。加百列更加大胆地继续说道：

‘I feel more strongly with every recurring year that our country has no tradition which does it so much honour and which it should guard so jealously as that of its hospitality. It is a tradition that is unique as far as my experience goes (and I have visited not a few places abroad) among the modern nations. Some would say, perhaps, that with us it is rather a failing than anything to be boasted of. But granted even that, it is, to my mind, a princely failing, and one that I trust will long be cultivated among us. Of one thing, at least, I am sure. As long as this one roof shelters the good ladies aforesaid—and I wish from my heart it may do so for many and many a long year to come—the tradition of genuine warm-hearted courteous Irish hospitality, which our forefathers have handed down to us and which we in turn must hand down to our descendants, is still alive among us.’
“我每年都更加强烈地感受到，我们的国家没有一个传统比热情好客的传统更值得尊敬和维护。就我的经验而言（我也访问过不少国外的地方），这是现代国家中独一无二的传统。也许有人会说，对我们来说，这与其说是一个失败，不如说是一个值得夸耀的事情。但即便如此，在我看来，这也是一种高贵的失败，我相信我们会长期培养这种失败。至少有一件事，我确信。只要这个屋顶庇护着上述的好女士们——我衷心希望在未来的漫长的一年里，它可以为许多人提供庇护——我们的祖先传承下来的真正热情礼貌的爱尔兰待客传统。我们必须把它传给我们的后代，它仍然存在于我们中间。

A hearty murmur of assent ran round the table. It shot through Gabriel’s mind that Miss Ivors was not there and that she had gone away discourteously: and he said with confidence in himself:
桌子周围响起一阵热烈的赞同声。加百列突然意识到艾弗斯小姐不在那里，而且她已经无礼地离开了：他自信地说：

‘Ladies and Gentlemen,
'女士们，先生们，

‘A new generation is growing up in our midst, a generation actuated by new ideas and new principles. It is serious and enthusiastic for these new ideas and its enthusiasm, even when it is misdirected, is, I believe, in the main sincere. But we are living in a sceptical and, if I may use the phrase, a thought-tormented age: and sometimes I fear that this new generation, educated or hypereducated as it is, will lack those qualities of humanity, of hospitality, of kindly humour which belonged to an older day. Listening tonight to the names of all those great singers of the past it seemed to me, I must confess, that we were living in a less spacious age. Those days might, without exaggeration, be called spacious days: and if they are gone beyond recall let us hope, at least, that in gatherings such as this we shall still speak of them with pride and affection, still cherish in our hearts the memory of those dead and gone great ones whose fame the world will not willingly let die.’
“新一代正在我们中间成长，这一代人受到新思想和新原则的推动。它对这些新想法是认真而热情的，我相信，即使它的热情被误导了，但它的热情基本上是真诚的。但我们生活在一个充满怀疑的时代，如果我可以用这个词的话，一个思想饱受折磨的时代：有时我担心，受过教育或受过高等教育的新一代将缺乏人性、热情好客、友善的品质。属于旧时代的幽默。今晚听着过去所有伟大歌手的名字，我必须承认，我觉得我们生活在一个不那么广阔的时代。毫不夸张地说，那些日子可以称为宽敞的日子：如果它们已经无法回忆，至少让我们希望，在这样的聚会中，我们仍然会自豪和深情地谈论它们，仍然在心中珍藏记忆那些已逝去的伟大人物，世界不会愿意让他们的名声消失。”

‘Hear, hear!’ said Mr. Browne loudly.
“听，听！”布朗先生大声说道。

‘But yet,’ continued Gabriel, his voice falling into a softer inflection, ‘there are always in gatherings such as this sadder thoughts that will recur to our minds: thoughts of the past, of youth, of changes, of absent faces that we miss here tonight. Our path through life is strewn with many such sad memories: and were we to brood upon them always we could not find the heart to go on bravely with our work among the living. We have all of us living duties and living affections which claim, and rightly claim, our strenuous endeavours.
“但是，”加布里埃尔继续说道，他的声音变得更加柔和，“在聚会中，我们的脑海中总会浮现出这种更悲伤的想法：关于过去、关于青春、关于变化、关于我们缺席的面孔的想法。今晚想念这里。我们的人生道路上充满了许多这样悲伤的回忆：如果我们总是沉思这些回忆，我们就找不到勇气继续我们在生者中的工作。我们所有人都有活生生的责任和活生生的情感，这些责任和情感需要我们付出艰苦的努力，而且这是正确的。

‘Therefore, I will not linger on the past. I will not let any gloomy moralising intrude upon us here tonight. Here we are gathered together for a brief moment from the bustle and rush of our everyday routine. We are met here as friends, in the spirit of good-fellowship, as colleagues, also to a certain extent, in the true spirit of camaraderie, and as the guests of—what shall I call them? —the Three Graces of the Dublin musical world.’
‘所以，我不会留恋过去。今晚我不会让任何悲观的说教侵入我们这里。在这里，我们暂时抛开日常生活的喧嚣，欢聚一堂。我们本着友好的精神在这里作为朋友相聚，作为同事，在某种程度上也本着真正的友情精神，作为客人——我该怎么称呼他们呢？ ——都柏林音乐界的美惠三女神。

The table burst into applause and laughter at this allusion. Aunt Julia vainly asked each of her neighbours in turn to tell her what Gabriel had said.
此言一出，桌上响起了掌声和笑声。朱莉娅姨妈徒劳地要求她的每个邻居轮流告诉她加布里埃尔说的话。

‘He says we are the Three Graces, Aunt Julia,’ said Mary Jane.
“他说我们是美惠三女神，朱莉娅姨妈，”玛丽·简说。

Aunt Julia did not understand but she looked up, smiling, at Gabriel, who continued in the same vein:
朱莉娅姨妈不明白，但她抬起头，微笑着看着加百列，加百列以同样的语气继续说道：

‘Ladies and Gentlemen,
'女士们，先生们，

‘I will not attempt to play tonight the part that Paris played on another occasion. I will not attempt to choose between them. The task would be an invidious one and one beyond my poor powers. For when I view them in turn, whether it be our chief hostess herself, whose good heart, whose too good heart, has become a byword with all who know her, or her sister, who seems to be gifted with perennial youth and whose singing must have been a surprise and a revelation to us all tonight, or, last but not least, when I consider our youngest hostess, talented, cheerful, hard-working and the best of nieces, I confess, Ladies and Gentlemen, that I do not know to which of them I should award the prize.’
“今晚我不会尝试扮演巴黎在其他场合扮演的角色。我不会尝试在它们之间进行选择。这项任务将是一项令人厌恶的任务，而且超出了我的能力范围。因为当我依次观看时，无论是我们的女主人本人，她的善良，她的善良，已经成为所有认识她的人的笑柄，还是她的姐姐，她似乎拥有永远的青春，她的歌声今晚对我们所有人来说肯定是一个惊喜和启示，或者，最后但并非最不重要的一点是，当我想到我们最年轻的女主人，她才华横溢，开朗，勤奋，是最好的侄女时，我承认，女士们先生们，我确实不知道我应该把奖颁给他们中的哪一个。

Gabriel glanced down at his aunts and, seeing the large smile on Aunt Julia’s face and the tears which had risen to Aunt Kate’s eyes, hastened to his close. He raised his glass of port gallantly, while every member of the company fingered a glass expectantly, and said loudly:
加百列低头看了一眼姨妈，看到朱莉娅姨妈脸上灿烂的笑容和凯特姨妈眼中涌出的泪水，他赶紧走过去。他潇洒地举起了波特酒杯，而连队的每个人都满怀期待地手指着酒杯，大声说道：

‘Let us toast them all three together. Let us drink to their health, wealth, long life, happiness and prosperity and may they long continue to hold the proud and self-won position which they hold in their profession and the position of honour and affection which they hold in our hearts.’
‘让我们一起为他们三个干杯。让我们为他们的健康、财富、长寿、幸福和繁荣干杯，祝他们长久地继续保持他们在职业中所拥有的自豪和自我赢得的地位，以及他们在我们心中所拥有的荣誉和感情的地位。

All the guests stood up, glass in hand, and turning towards the three seated ladies, sang in unison, with Mr. Browne as leader:
所有客人都站起来，手里拿着酒杯，转向三位坐着的女士，齐声唱道，布朗先生领唱：

For they are jolly gay fellows,
因为他们是快乐的同性恋伙伴，

For they are jolly gay fellows,
因为他们是快乐的同性恋伙伴，

For they are jolly gay fellows,
因为他们是快乐的同性恋伙伴，

Which nobody can deny.
没有人可以否认这一点。

Aunt Kate was making frank use of her handkerchief and even Aunt Julia seemed moved. Freddy Malins beat time with his pudding-fork and the singers turned towards one another, as if in melodious conference, while they sang with emphasis:
凯特姨妈坦率地使用她的手帕，甚至朱莉娅姨妈似乎也很感动。弗雷迪·马林斯用他的布丁叉敲打着节拍，歌手们转向彼此，仿佛在进行一场悠扬的会议，同时他们重点唱道：

Unless he tells a lie,
除非他说谎，

Unless he tells a lie,
除非他说谎，

Then, turning once more towards their hostesses, they sang:
然后，他们再次转向女主人，唱道：

For they are jolly gay fellows,
因为他们是快乐的同性恋伙伴，

For they are jolly gay fellows,
因为他们是快乐的同性恋伙伴，

For they are jolly gay fellows,
因为他们是快乐的同性恋伙伴，

Which nobody can deny.
没有人可以否认这一点。

The acclamation which followed was taken up beyond the door of the supper-room by many of the other guests and renewed time after time, Freddy Malins acting as officer with his fork on high.
随后的欢呼声在晚餐室的门外被许多其他客人传出，并一次又一次地重复，弗雷迪·马林斯高高举起叉子充当军官。



The piercing morning air came into the hall where they were standing so that Aunt Kate said:
刺骨的早晨空气吹进他们站着的大厅，凯特姨妈说道：

‘Close the door, somebody. Mrs. Malins will get her death of cold.’
‘关上门，有人。马林斯太太会冻死的。

‘Browne is out there, Aunt Kate,’ said Mary Jane.
“凯特姨妈，布朗在外面，”玛丽·简说。

‘Browne is everywhere,’ said Aunt Kate, lowering her voice.
“布朗无处不在，”凯特姨妈压低了声音说道。

Mary Jane laughed at her tone.
玛丽·简被她的语气逗笑了。

‘Really,’ she said archly, ‘he is very attentive.’
“真的，”她调皮地说，“他非常细心。”

‘He has been laid on here like the gas,’ said Aunt Kate in the same tone, ‘all during the Christmas.’
“圣诞节期间，他就像毒气一样被放在这儿，”凯特姨妈用同样的语气说道。

She laughed herself this time good-humouredly and then added quickly:
这次她自己也幽默地笑了起来，然后很快补充道：

‘But tell him to come in, Mary Jane, and close the door. I hope to goodness he didn’t hear me.’
“但是请让他进来，玛丽·简，然后关上门。我希望他没有听到我的声音。

At that moment the hall-door was opened and Mr. Browne came in from the doorstep, laughing as if his heart would break. He was dressed in a long green overcoat with mock astrakhan cuffs and collar and wore on his head an oval fur cap. He pointed down the snow-covered quay from where the sound of shrill prolonged whistling was borne in.
就在这时，大厅的门打开了，布朗先生从门口进来，笑得心都要碎了。他穿着一件绿色长大衣，袖口和领子仿阿斯特拉罕风格，头上戴着一顶椭圆形毛皮帽。他指着白雪覆盖的码头，那里传来尖锐的、长时间的口哨声。

‘Teddy will have all the cabs in Dublin out,’ he said.
“泰迪会把都柏林所有的出租车都停掉，”他说。

Gabriel advanced from the little pantry behind the office, struggling into his overcoat and, looking round the hall, said:
加布里埃尔从办公室后面的小食品储藏室走了出来，费力地穿上大衣，环顾大厅，说道：

‘Gretta not down yet?’
“格蕾塔还没下来吗？”

‘She’s getting on her things, Gabriel,’ said Aunt Kate.
“她正在收拾东西，加布里埃尔，”凯特姨妈说。

‘Who’s playing up there?’ asked Gabriel.
“谁在上面演奏？”加布里埃尔问道。

‘Nobody. They’re all gone.’
'没有人。他们都走了。

‘O no, Aunt Kate,’ said Mary Jane. ‘Bartell D’Arcy and Miss O’Callaghan aren’t gone yet.’
“哦，不，凯特姨妈，”玛丽·简说。 “巴特尔·达西和奥卡拉汉小姐还没走。”

‘Someone is fooling at the piano anyhow,’ said Gabriel.
“无论如何，有人在玩钢琴，”加布里埃尔说。

Mary Jane glanced at Gabriel and Mr. Browne and said with a shiver:
玛丽·简看了一眼加百列和布朗先生，颤抖着说道：

‘It makes me feel cold to look at you two gentlemen muffled up like that. I wouldn’t like to face your journey home at this hour.’
‘看着你们两位先生像这样闷闷不乐，我感到很冷。我不想在这个时候面对你回家的路。

‘I’d like nothing better this minute,’ said Mr. Browne stoutly, ‘than a rattling fine walk in the country or a fast drive with a good spanking goer between the shafts.’
“这一刻，我最想要的莫过于在乡间悠闲地散步，或者在竖井之间与一个打屁股的人一起快速驾驶。”布朗先生坚定地说。

‘We used to have a very good horse and trap at home,’ said Aunt Julia sadly.
“我们家里以前有一匹很好的马和陷阱，”朱莉娅姨妈悲伤地说。

‘The never-to-be-forgotten Johnny,’ said Mary Jane, laughing.
“永远不会被忘记的约翰尼，”玛丽·简笑着说。

Aunt Kate and Gabriel laughed too.
凯特姨妈和加百列也笑了。

‘Why, what was wonderful about Johnny?’ asked Mr. Browne.
“为什么，约翰尼有什么了不起的？”布朗先生问道。

‘The late lamented Patrick Morkan, our grandfather, that is,’ explained Gabriel, ‘commonly known in his later years as the old gentleman, was a glue-boiler.’
加布里埃尔解释说：“已故的帕特里克·莫坎，也就是我们的祖父，在他晚年时通常被称为老绅士，他是一个爱喝胶的人。”

‘O, now, Gabriel,’ said Aunt Kate, laughing, ‘he had a starch mill.’
“噢，加布里埃尔，”凯特姨妈笑着说，“他有一家淀粉厂。”

‘Well, glue or starch,’ said Gabriel, ‘the old gentleman had a horse by the name of Johnny. And Johnny used to work in the old gentleman’s mill, walking round and round in order to drive the mill. That was all very well; but now comes the tragic part about Johnny. One fine day the old gentleman thought he’d like to drive out with the quality to a military review in the park.’
“好吧，胶水或淀粉，”加布里埃尔说，“老先生有一匹马，名叫约翰尼。约翰尼曾经在老先生的磨坊里工作，为了开磨坊而走来走去。一切都很好。但现在是关于约翰尼的悲剧部分。有一天天气晴朗，老先生想带着这样的品质开车出去去公园参加军事检阅。

‘The Lord have mercy on his soul,’ said Aunt Kate compassionately.
“愿上帝怜悯他的灵魂，”凯特姨妈富有同情心地说。

‘Amen,’ said Gabriel. ‘So the old gentleman, as I said, harnessed Johnny and put on his very best tall hat and his very best stock collar and drove out in grand style from his ancestral mansion somewhere near Back Lane, I think.’
“阿门，”加百列说。 “所以，正如我所说，这位老绅士套上约翰尼，戴上他最好的高帽和最好的衣领，我想，他以宏伟的方式从后巷附近某处的祖宅开车出去。”

Everyone laughed, even Mrs. Malins, at Gabriel’s manner and Aunt Kate said:
每个人都嘲笑加布里埃尔的态度，连马林斯太太也笑了，凯特姨妈说：

‘O, now, Gabriel, he didn’t live in Back Lane, really. Only the mill was there.’
“哦，现在，加布里埃尔，他真的不住在后巷。只有磨坊在那里。

‘Out from the mansion of his forefathers,’ continued Gabriel, ‘he drove with Johnny. And everything went on beautifully until Johnny came in sight of King Billy’s statue: and whether he fell in love with the horse King Billy sits on or whether he thought he was back again in the mill, anyhow he began to walk round the statue.’
“他和约翰尼一起从他祖先的宅邸里出来，”加布里埃尔继续说道。一切都进展得很顺利，直到约翰尼看到了比利国王的雕像：不管他是爱上了比利国王骑的那匹马，还是认为自己又回到了磨坊，总之，他开始绕着雕像走来走去。

Gabriel paced in a circle round the hall in his goloshes amid the laughter of the others.
加百列在其他人的笑声中穿着套鞋绕着大厅踱步。

‘Round and round he went,’ said Gabriel, ‘and the old gentleman, who was a very pompous old gentleman, was highly indignant. ‘Go on, sir! What do you mean, sir? Johnny! Johnny! Most extraordinary conduct! Can’t understand the horse!’
“他绕了一圈又一圈，”加布里埃尔说，“那位老先生，一位非常自负的老先生，非常愤怒。 ‘继续吧，先生！先生，您是什么意思？约翰尼！约翰尼！最不寻常的行为！听不懂这匹马！’

The peal of laughter which followed Gabriel’s imitation of the incident was interrupted by a resounding knock at the hall door. Mary Jane ran to open it and let in Freddy Malins. Freddy Malins, with his hat well back on his head and his shoulders humped with cold, was puffing and steaming after his exertions.
加百列模仿这件事之后爆发出的笑声被大厅门上一阵响亮的敲门声打断了。玛丽·简跑去打开门，让弗雷迪·马林斯进来。弗雷迪·马林斯的帽子高高地戴在脑后，肩膀因寒冷而隆起，在劳累之后气喘吁吁、冒着热气。

‘I could only get one cab,’ he said.
“我只能叫到一辆出租车，”他说。

‘O, we’ll find another along the quay,’ said Gabriel.
“哦，我们会在码头找到另一个，”加布里埃尔说。

‘Yes,’ said Aunt Kate. ‘Better not keep Mrs. Malins standing in the draught.’
“是的，”凯特姨妈说。 “最好不要让马林斯夫人站在通风口。”

Mrs. Malins was helped down the front steps by her son and Mr. Browne and, after many manoeuvres, hoisted into the cab. Freddy Malins clambered in after her and spent a long time settling her on the seat, Mr. Browne helping him with advice. At last she was settled comfortably and Freddy Malins invited Mr. Browne into the cab. There was a good deal of confused talk, and then Mr. Browne got into the cab. The cabman settled his rug over his knees, and bent down for the address. The confusion grew greater and the cabman was directed differently by Freddy Malins and Mr. Browne, each of whom had his head out through a window of the cab. The difficulty was to know where to drop Mr. Browne along the route, and Aunt Kate, Aunt Julia and Mary Jane helped the discussion from the doorstep with cross-directions and contradictions and abundance of laughter. As for Freddy Malins he was speechless with laughter. He popped his head in and out of the window every moment to the great danger of his hat, and told his mother how the discussion was progressing, till at last Mr. Browne shouted to the bewildered cabman above the din of everybody’s laughter:
马林斯夫人在儿子和布朗先生的搀扶下走下前面的台阶，经过多次操作后，被抬进了驾驶室。弗雷迪·马林斯跟着她爬了上来，花了很长时间才让她坐在座位上，布朗先生给了他建议。最后她舒服地安顿下来，弗雷迪·马林斯邀请布朗先生进入出租车。大家议论纷纷，然后布朗先生钻进了出租车。马车夫把地毯放在膝盖上，弯下腰去询问地址。混乱越来越严重，弗雷迪·马林斯和布朗先生对出租车司机的指挥也不同，两人都把头伸出出租车的车窗外。困难在于要知道布朗先生沿途该在哪里下车，而凯特姨妈、朱莉娅姨妈和玛丽·简则在门口以相反的方向、矛盾和大量的笑声帮助讨论。至于弗雷迪·马林斯，他笑得说不出话来。他每时每刻都把头伸进窗外，冒着帽子的巨大危险，告诉他的母亲讨论的进展如何，直到最后布朗先生在大家的笑声中对困惑的马车夫喊道：

‘Do you know Trinity College?’
“你知道三一学院吗？”

‘Yes, sir,’ said the cabman.
“是的，先生，”马车夫说。

‘Well, drive bang up against Trinity College gates,’ said Mr. Browne, ‘and then we’ll tell you where to go. You understand now?’
“好吧，开车撞上三一学院的大门，”布朗先生说，“然后我们会告诉你去哪里。”你现在明白了？'

‘Yes, sir,’ said the cabman.
“是的，先生，”马车夫说。

‘Make like a bird for Trinity College.’
“像三一学院的鸟一样。”

‘Right, sir,’ said the cabman.
“好的，先生，”马车夫说。

The horse was whipped up and the cab rattled off along the quay amid a chorus of laughter and adieus.
马被鞭打起来，马车在一片笑声和告别声中沿着码头嘎嘎作响。

Gabriel had not gone to the door with the others. He was in a dark part of the hall gazing up the staircase. A woman was standing near the top of the first flight, in the shadow also. He could not see her face but he could see the terra-cotta and salmon-pink panels of her skirt which the shadow made appear black and white. It was his wife. She was leaning on the banisters, listening to something. Gabriel was surprised at her stillness and strained his ear to listen also. But he could hear little save the noise of laughter and dispute on the front steps, a few chords struck on the piano and a few notes of a man’s voice singing.
加百列没有和其他人一起走到门口。他站在大厅的一个黑暗的地方，凝视着楼梯。一个女人也站在第一层楼梯顶部附近的阴影中。他看不到她的脸，但他可以看到她裙子上的赤土色和橙红色镶片，阴影使它们显得黑白分明。是他的妻子。她靠在栏杆上，听着什么声音。加百列对她的安静感到惊讶，也竖起耳朵听。但除了前面台阶上的笑声和争吵声、钢琴上弹奏的几声和弦以及一个男人唱歌的声音之外，他几乎听不到什么声音。

He stood still in the gloom of the hall, trying to catch the air that the voice was singing and gazing up at his wife. There was grace and mystery in her attitude as if she were a symbol of something. He asked himself what is a woman standing on the stairs in the shadow, listening to distant music, a symbol of. If he were a painter he would paint her in that attitude. Her blue felt hat would show off the bronze of her hair against the darkness and the dark panels of her skirt would show off the light ones. Distant Music he would call the picture if he were a painter.
他在昏暗的大厅里一动不动地站着，试图捕捉歌声中的空气，抬头凝视着他的妻子。她的态度优雅而神秘，仿佛她是某种事物的象征。他问自己，一个女人站在楼梯上的影子里，听着远处的音乐是什么象征。如果他是画家，他就会以那种态度来画她。她的蓝色毡帽会在黑暗中衬托出她古铜色的头发，裙子的深色镶片会衬托出浅色镶片。如果他是画家，他会把这幅画称为“遥远的音乐”。

The hall-door was closed; and Aunt Kate, Aunt Julia and Mary Jane came down the hall, still laughing.
大厅的门关着。凯特姨妈、朱莉娅姨妈和玛丽·简从大厅走来，仍然在笑。

‘Well, isn’t Freddy terrible?’ said Mary Jane. ‘He’s really terrible.’
“嗯，弗雷迪不是很可怕吗？”玛丽·简说。 “他真的很糟糕。”

Gabriel said nothing but pointed up the stairs towards where his wife was standing. Now that the hall-door was closed the voice and the piano could be heard more clearly. Gabriel held up his hand for them to be silent. The song seemed to be in the old Irish tonality and the singer seemed uncertain both of his words and of his voice. The voice, made plaintive by distance and by the singer’s hoarseness, faintly illuminated the cadence of the air with words expressing grief:
加布里埃尔什么也没说，只是指着楼梯上他妻子站着的地方。现在厅门关上了，声音和钢琴声听得更清楚了。加百列举起手示意他们安静。这首歌似乎是古老的爱尔兰语调，歌手似乎对他的歌词和声音都不确定。声音因距离和歌手的嘶哑而变得哀怨，隐约照亮了空气的节奏，充满了悲伤的话语：

O, the rain falls on my heavy locks
哦，雨落在我厚重的头发上

And the dew wets my skin,
露水打湿了我的皮肤，

My babe lies cold...
我的宝贝冷了……

‘O,’ exclaimed Mary Jane. ‘It’s Bartell D’Arcy singing and he wouldn’t sing all the night. O, I’ll get him to sing a song before he goes.’
“哦，”玛丽·简惊呼道。 “是巴特尔·达西在唱歌，但他不会整晚都唱。”噢，在他走之前我会让他唱首歌。

‘O, do, Mary Jane,’ said Aunt Kate.
“哦，做吧，玛丽·简，”凯特姨妈说。

Mary Jane brushed past the others and ran to the staircase, but before she reached it the singing stopped and the piano was closed abruptly.
玛丽·简与其他人擦肩而过，跑向楼梯，但在她到达楼梯之前，歌声停止了，钢琴突然关闭。

‘O, what a pity!’ she cried. ‘Is he coming down, Gretta?’
“噢，真遗憾！”她哭道。 “格蕾塔，他要下来吗？”

Gabriel heard his wife answer yes and saw her come down towards them. A few steps behind her were Mr. Bartell D’Arcy and Miss O’Callaghan.
加布里埃尔听到他的妻子回答“是”，并看到她朝他们走来。她身后几步是巴特尔·达西先生和奥卡拉汉小姐。

‘O, Mr. D’Arcy,’ cried Mary Jane, ‘it’s downright mean of you to break off like that when we were all in raptures listening to you.’
“噢，达西先生，”玛丽·简喊道，“当我们都在欣喜若狂地听你讲话时，你却突然中断讲话，真是太卑鄙了。”

‘I have been at him all the evening,’ said Miss O’Callaghan, ‘and Mrs. Conroy, too, and he told us he had a dreadful cold and couldn’t sing.’
“我整个晚上都在照顾他，”奥卡拉汉小姐说，“还有康罗伊夫人，他告诉我们他得了重感冒，不能唱歌。”

‘O, Mr. D’Arcy,’ said Aunt Kate, ‘now that was a great fib to tell.’
“哦，达西先生，”凯特姨妈说，“这真是个大谎言。”

‘Can’t you see that I’m as hoarse as a crow?’ said Mr. D’Arcy roughly.
“你没看到我声音嘶哑得像乌鸦吗？”达西先生粗暴地说。

He went into the pantry hastily and put on his overcoat. The others, taken aback by his rude speech, could find nothing to say. Aunt Kate wrinkled her brows and made signs to the others to drop the subject. Mr. D’Arcy stood swathing his neck carefully and frowning.
他急忙走进储藏室，穿上大衣。其他人被他的粗鲁言语吓了一跳，无话可说。凯特姨妈皱起眉头，示意其他人别再谈论这个话题。达西先生站在那里，小心翼翼地捂着脖子，皱着眉头。

‘It’s the weather,’ said Aunt Julia, after a pause.
“是天气的原因，”朱莉娅姨妈停顿了一下后说道。

‘Yes, everybody has colds,’ said Aunt Kate readily, ‘everybody.’
“是的，每个人都会感冒，”凯特姨妈爽快地说，“每个人。”

‘They say,’ said Mary Jane, ‘we haven’t had snow like it for thirty years; and I read this morning in the newspapers that the snow is general all over Ireland.’
“他们说，”玛丽·简说，“我们已经三十年没有下过这样的雪了；今天早上我在报纸上读到爱尔兰各地都在下雪。

‘I love the look of snow,’ said Aunt Julia sadly.
“我喜欢雪的样子，”朱莉娅姨妈悲伤地说。

‘So do I,’ said Miss O’Callaghan. ‘I think Christmas is never really Christmas unless we have the snow on the ground.’
“我也是，”奥卡拉汉小姐说。 “我认为除非地上有雪，否则圣诞节就不是真正的圣诞节。”

‘But poor Mr. D’Arcy doesn’t like the snow,’ said Aunt Kate, smiling.
“但是可怜的达西先生不喜欢下雪，”凯特姨妈微笑着说道。

Mr. D’Arcy came from the pantry, fully swathed and buttoned, and in a repentant tone told them the history of his cold. Everyone gave him advice and said it was a great pity and urged him to be very careful of his throat in the night air. Gabriel watched his wife, who did not join in the conversation. She was standing right under the dusty fanlight and the flame of the gas lit up the rich bronze of her hair, which he had seen her drying at the fire a few days before. She was in the same attitude and seemed unaware of the talk about her. At last she turned towards them and Gabriel saw that there was colour on her cheeks and that her eyes were shining. A sudden tide of joy went leaping out of his heart.
达西先生从食品储藏室里出来，身上裹得严严实实，扣子扣得严严实实，他用忏悔的语气向他们讲述了他的感冒史。大家都给他出主意，说这是一个很大的遗憾，并叮嘱他在夜空中要非常小心自己的喉咙。加百列看着他的妻子，她没有加入谈话。她正站在布满灰尘的风扇灯下，煤气的火焰照亮了她浓浓的古铜色头发，几天前他曾看到她在火边烘干头发。她也是同样的态度，似乎没有意识到人们在谈论她。最后她转向他们，加百列看到她的脸颊上泛着红光，眼睛闪闪发亮。一股喜悦的浪潮突然从他的心底涌出。

‘Mr. D’Arcy,’ she said, ‘what is the name of that song you were singing?’
'先生。达西，”她说，“你唱的那首歌叫什么名字？

‘It’s called The Lass of Aughrim,’ said Mr. D’Arcy, ‘but I couldn’t remember it properly. Why? Do you know it?’
“它叫《奥格里姆少女》，”达西先生说，“但我记不太清了。”为什么？你知道吗？'

‘The Lass of Aughrim,’ she repeated. ‘I couldn’t think of the name.’
“奥格里姆的少女，”她重复道。 “我想不出这个名字。”

‘It’s a very nice air,’ said Mary Jane. ‘I’m sorry you were not in voice tonight.’
“空气真好，”玛丽·简说。 “很抱歉你今晚没有发声。”

‘Now, Mary Jane,’ said Aunt Kate, ‘don’t annoy Mr. D’Arcy. I won’t have him annoyed.’
“现在，玛丽·简，”凯特姨妈说，“别惹恼达西先生。我不会让他生气的。

Seeing that all were ready to start she shepherded them to the door, where good-night was said:
看到所有人都准备好了，她把他们领到门口，道了晚安：

‘Well, good-night, Aunt Kate, and thanks for the pleasant evening.’
“好吧，晚安，凯特阿姨，谢谢你度过了一个愉快的夜晚。”

‘Good-night, Gabriel. Good-night, Gretta!’
“晚安，加百列。晚安，格蕾塔！”

‘Good-night, Aunt Kate, and thanks ever so much. Goodnight, Aunt Julia.’
“晚安，凯特阿姨，非常感谢。晚安，朱莉娅阿姨。

‘O, good-night, Gretta, I didn’t see you.’
“哦，晚安，格蕾塔，我没看到你。”

‘Good-night, Mr. D’Arcy. Good-night, Miss O’Callaghan.’
“晚安，达西先生。”晚安，奥卡拉汉小姐。

‘Good-night, Miss Morkan.’
“晚安，莫坎小姐。”

‘Good-night, again.’
“再次晚安。”

‘Good-night, all. Safe home.’
'大家晚安。安全到家。”

‘Good-night. Good night.’
'晚安。晚安。'

The morning was still dark. A dull, yellow light brooded over the houses and the river; and the sky seemed to be descending. It was slushy underfoot; and only streaks and patches of snow lay on the roofs, on the parapets of the quay and on the area railings. The lamps were still burning redly in the murky air and, across the river, the palace of the Four Courts stood out menacingly against the heavy sky.
早上天还黑着。昏暗的黄色光芒笼罩着房屋和河流。天似乎要塌下来了。脚下是泥泞的；屋顶上、码头的护栏上和区域栏杆上只有条条雪和片片雪。昏暗的空气中，灯火依然红红地燃烧着，河对岸的四院宫殿在阴沉的天空的衬托下显得气势汹汹。

She was walking on before him with Mr. Bartell D’Arcy, her shoes in a brown parcel tucked under one arm and her hands holding her skirt up from the slush. She had no longer any grace of attitude, but Gabriel’s eyes were still bright with happiness. The blood went bounding along his veins; and the thoughts went rioting through his brain, proud, joyful, tender, valorous.
她和巴特尔·达西先生一起走在他前面，她的鞋子放在一个棕色包裹里，夹在一只胳膊下，双手把裙子从雪泥中拉起来。她不再有任何优雅的姿态，但加百列的眼睛里仍然闪烁着幸福的光芒。血液沿着他的血管流动。各种念头在他的大脑中翻腾，骄傲、快乐、温柔、勇敢。

She was walking on before him so lightly and so erect that he longed to run after her noiselessly, catch her by the shoulders and say something foolish and affectionate into her ear. She seemed to him so frail that he longed to defend her against something and then to be alone with her. Moments of their secret life together burst like stars upon his memory. A heliotrope envelope was lying beside his breakfast-cup and he was caressing it with his hand. Birds were twittering in the ivy and the sunny web of the curtain was shimmering along the floor: he could not eat for happiness. They were standing on the crowded platform and he was placing a ticket inside the warm palm of her glove. He was standing with her in the cold, looking in through a grated window at a man making bottles in a roaring furnace. It was very cold. Her face, fragrant in the cold air, was quite close to his; and suddenly he called out to the man at the furnace:
她走在他面前，那么轻盈，那么挺拔，让他恨不得悄无声息地追上她，抓住她的肩膀，在她耳边说些愚蠢又深情的话。在他看来，她是如此脆弱，以至于他渴望保护她免受某些事情的侵害，然后又想单独和她在一起。他们一起秘密生活的时刻像星星一样在他的记忆中迸发出来。他的早餐杯旁边放着一个天芥菜信封，他用手抚摸着它。鸟儿在常春藤中叽叽喳喳地叫着，阳光明媚的窗帘网在地板上闪闪发光：他不能为了幸福而吃饭。他们站在拥挤的站台上，他把一张票放进她温暖的手套手掌里。他和她一起在寒冷中站着，透过铁栅窗往里看，一个男人正在熊熊燃烧的熔炉里制作瓶子。天气很冷。她的脸离他的脸很近，在冷空气中散发着芬芳。突然，他对炉边的人喊道：

‘Is the fire hot, sir?’
“火很热吗，先生？”

But the man could not hear with the noise of the furnace. It was just as well. He might have answered rudely.
但炉子的声音使人听不见。这样也好。他的回答可能很粗鲁。

A wave of yet more tender joy escaped from his heart and went coursing in warm flood along his arteries. Like the tender fire of stars moments of their life together, that no one knew of or would ever know of, broke upon and illumined his memory. He longed to recall to her those moments, to make her forget the years of their dull existence together and remember only their moments of ecstasy. For the years, he felt, had not quenched his soul or hers. Their children, his writing, her household cares had not quenched all their souls’ tender fire. In one letter that he had written to her then he had said: ‘Why is it that words like these seem to me so dull and cold? Is it because there is no word tender enough to be your name?’
一股更加温柔的喜悦从他的心中逸出，沿着他的动脉温暖地流淌。就像星星的温柔火焰一样，他们一生中在一起的时刻，没有人知道或永远不会知道，突然闯入并照亮了他的记忆。他渴望向她回忆起那些时刻，让她忘记他们一起度过的平淡岁月，只记得他们的狂喜时刻。他觉得这些年来并没有浇灭他或她的灵魂。他们的孩子、他的写作、她的家务都没有熄灭他们灵魂中温柔的火焰。他在当时写给她的一封信中说道：“为什么这些话在我看来如此乏味和冷酷？”是因为没有一个温柔的词可以作为你的名字吗？

Like distant music these words that he had written years before were borne towards him from the past. He longed to be alone with her. When the others had gone away, when he and she were in the room in the hotel, then they would be alone together. He would call her softly:
就像遥远的音乐一样，他多年前写下的这些文字从过去传给了他。他渴望单独和她在一起。等其他人都走了，当他和她在酒店房间里的时候，就只剩下他们两个人了。他会轻声唤她：

‘Gretta!’
“格蕾塔！”

Perhaps she would not hear at once: she would be undressing. Then something in his voice would strike her. She would turn and look at him....
也许她不会立刻听到：她要脱衣服了。然后他声音里的某些东西就会打动她。她会转身看着他……

At the corner of Winetavern Street they met a cab. He was glad of its rattling noise as it saved him from conversation. She was looking out of the window and seemed tired. The others spoke only a few words, pointing out some building or street. The horse galloped along wearily under the murky morning sky, dragging his old rattling box after his heels, and Gabriel was again in a cab with her, galloping to catch the boat, galloping to their honeymoon.
在酒馆街的拐角处，他们遇到了一辆出租车。他很高兴它发出嘎嘎声，因为这让他免于谈话。她看着窗外，看上去很疲惫。其他人只说了几句话，指着某栋建筑物或街道。那匹马在清晨阴暗的天空下疲倦地奔驰，拖着他的旧箱子，嘎嘎作响，加布里埃尔又和她一起坐在出租车里，疾驰着赶船，疾驰着去度蜜月。

As the cab drove across O’Connell Bridge Miss O’Callaghan said:
当出租车驶过奥康奈尔桥时，奥卡拉汉小姐说道：

‘They say you never cross O’Connell Bridge without seeing a white horse.’
“他们说，走过奥康奈尔桥时，你一定会看到一匹白马。”

‘I see a white man this time,’ said Gabriel.
“这次我看到一个白人，”加布里埃尔说。

‘Where?’ asked Mr. Bartell D’Arcy.
“哪里？”巴特尔·达西先生问道。

Gabriel pointed to the statue, on which lay patches of snow. Then he nodded familiarly to it and waved his hand.
加百列指着雕像，雕像上覆盖着大片的雪。然后他熟悉地点了点头并挥了挥手。

‘Good-night, Dan,’ he said gaily.
“晚安，丹，”他高兴地说。

When the cab drew up before the hotel, Gabriel jumped out and, in spite of Mr. Bartell D’Arcy’s protest, paid the driver. He gave the man a shilling over his fare. The man saluted and said:
当出租车停在酒店门口时，加布里埃尔跳下车，不顾巴特尔·达西先生的抗议，付了钱给司机。他给了那个人一先令的车费。那人行礼道：

‘A prosperous New Year to you, sir.’
“祝您新年快乐，先生。”

‘The same to you,’ said Gabriel cordially.
“你也一样，”加百列亲切地说。

She leaned for a moment on his arm in getting out of the cab and while standing at the curbstone, bidding the others goodnight. She leaned lightly on his arm, as lightly as when she had danced with him a few hours before. He had felt proud and happy then, happy that she was his, proud of her grace and wifely carriage. But now, after the kindling again of so many memories, the first touch of her body, musical and strange and perfumed, sent through him a keen pang of lust. Under cover of her silence he pressed her arm closely to his side; and, as they stood at the hotel door, he felt that they had escaped from their lives and duties, escaped from home and friends and run away together with wild and radiant hearts to a new adventure.
下车时，她靠在他的手臂上一会儿，站在路边向其他人道晚安。她轻轻靠在他的手臂上，就像几个小时前她和他跳舞时一样轻柔。那时他感到自豪和幸福，为她是他的而感到高兴，为她的优雅和妻子的举止感到自豪。但现在，在再次点燃了如此多的记忆之后，第一次触摸她的身体，音乐般的、陌生的、芬芳的，给他带来了强烈的欲望。在她沉默的掩护下，他把她的手臂紧紧地贴在自己身边。当他们站在酒店门口时，他觉得他们逃离了自己的生活和职责，逃离了家庭和朋友，带着狂野而光芒四射的心一起逃往新的冒险。

An old man was dozing in a great hooded chair in the hall. He lit a candle in the office and went before them to the stairs. They followed him in silence, their feet falling in soft thuds on the thickly carpeted stairs. She mounted the stairs behind the porter, her head bowed in the ascent, her frail shoulders curved as with a burden, her skirt girt tightly about her. He could have flung his arms about her hips and held her still, for his arms were trembling with desire to seize her and only the stress of his nails against the palms of his hands held the wild impulse of his body in check. The porter halted on the stairs to settle his guttering candle. They halted, too, on the steps below him. In the silence Gabriel could hear the falling of the molten wax into the tray and the thumping of his own heart against his ribs.
一位老人正在大厅里一把带兜帽的大椅子上打瞌睡。他在办公室点燃一支蜡烛，在他们前面走上楼梯。他们默默地跟在他身后，双脚落在铺着厚地毯的楼梯上，发出轻柔的撞击声。她跟在门房后面走上楼梯，上楼梯时低着头，脆弱的肩膀像负担一样弯曲，裙子紧紧地裹住她。他本可以用双臂搂住她的臀部，让她保持不动，因为他的手臂因为想要抓住她而颤抖，只有指甲抵在手掌上的压力才抑制住了他身体的狂野冲动。搬运工在楼梯上停下来，清理掉他的蜡烛。他们也在他下面的台阶上停了下来。在寂静中，加百列能听到熔化的蜡落入托盘中的声音，以及他自己的心脏撞击肋骨的撞击声。

The porter led them along a corridor and opened a door. Then he set his unstable candle down on a toilet-table and asked at what hour they were to be called in the morning.
门房领着他们穿过走廊，打开了一扇门。然后他把摇摇欲坠的蜡烛放在梳妆台上，询问他们早上几点钟接到电话。

‘Eight,’ said Gabriel.
“八，”加百列说。

The porter pointed to the tap of the electric-light and began a muttered apology, but Gabriel cut him short.
搬运工指着电灯的水龙头，开始低声道歉，但加百列打断了他。

‘We don’t want any light. We have light enough from the street. And I say,’ he added, pointing to the candle, ‘you might remove that handsome article, like a good man.’
“我们不需要任何光。我们有足够的街道照明。我说，”他指着蜡烛补充道，“你可以像个好人一样删除那篇漂亮的文章。”

The porter took up his candle again, but slowly, for he was surprised by such a novel idea. Then he mumbled good-night and went out. Gabriel shot the lock to.
搬运工又拿起蜡烛，但动作很慢，因为他对这个新奇的想法感到惊讶。然后他咕哝了声晚安就出去了。加百列开枪射击了锁。

A ghastly light from the street lamp lay in a long shaft from one window to the door. Gabriel threw his overcoat and hat on a couch and crossed the room towards the window. He looked down into the street in order that his emotion might calm a little. Then he turned and leaned against a chest of drawers with his back to the light. She had taken off her hat and cloak and was standing before a large swinging mirror, unhooking her waist. Gabriel paused for a few moments, watching her, and then said:
路灯发出的可怕的光从一扇窗户一直射到门上的一条长长的竖井里。加布里埃尔把他的大衣和帽子扔到沙发上，穿过房间朝窗户走去。他低头看着街道，想让自己的情绪平静一点。然后他转身靠在抽屉柜上，背对着灯光。她脱下帽子和斗篷，站在一面可摆动的大镜子前，解开腰间的钩子。加百列停顿了一会儿，看着她，然后说道：

‘Gretta!’
“格蕾塔！”

She turned away from the mirror slowly and walked along the shaft of light towards him. Her face looked so serious and weary that the words would not pass Gabriel’s lips. No, it was not the moment yet.
她慢慢地从镜子前转开，顺着光柱朝他走去。她的脸看起来如此严肃和疲倦，以至于加百列无法说出这句话。不，现在还不是时候。

‘You looked tired,’ he said.
“你看起来很累，”他说。

‘I am a little,’ she answered.
“我有点小，”她回答道。

‘You don’t feel ill or weak?’
“你不觉得不舒服或者虚弱吗？”

‘No, tired: that’s all.’
“不，累了：仅此而已。”

She went on to the window and stood there, looking out. Gabriel waited again and then, fearing that diffidence was about to conquer him, he said abruptly:
她走到窗前，站在那里，向外望去。加百列又等了一会儿，然后，担心自己会被羞怯所征服，他突然说道：

‘By the way, Gretta!’
“顺便说一下，格蕾塔！”

‘What is it?’
'它是什么？'

‘You know that poor fellow Malins?’ he said quickly.
“你认识那个可怜的马林兄弟吗？”他很快说道。

‘Yes. What about him?’
'是的。那么他呢？'

‘Well, poor fellow, he’s a decent sort of chap, after all,’ continued Gabriel in a false voice. ‘He gave me back that sovereign I lent him, and I didn’t expect it, really. It’s a pity he wouldn’t keep away from that Browne, because he’s not a bad fellow, really.’
“好吧，可怜的家伙，毕竟他是一个正派的小伙子，”加百列假装继续说道。 “他把我借给他的主权归还给了我，我真的没想到会这样。可惜他不会远离那个布朗，因为他真的不是一个坏人。

He was trembling now with annoyance. Why did she seem so abstracted? He did not know how he could begin. Was she annoyed, too, about something? If she would only turn to him or come to him of her own accord! To take her as she was would be brutal. No, he must see some ardour in her eyes first. He longed to be master of her strange mood.
他现在气得浑身发抖。为什么她看起来如此心不在焉？他不知道该如何开始。她是不是也因为什么事情生气了？如果她能转向他或者自愿来到他身边就好了！如果按照她本来的样子对待她，那就太残酷了。不，他必须先看到她眼中的热情。他渴望成为她奇怪情绪的主人。

‘When did you lend him the pound?’ she asked, after a pause.
“你什么时候借给他一英镑的？”停顿了一下，她问道。

Gabriel strove to restrain himself from breaking out into brutal language about the sottish Malins and his pound. He longed to cry to her from his soul, to crush her body against his, to overmaster her. But he said:
加布里埃尔努力克制自己，不让自己对那些酗酒的马林人和他的英镑说出粗暴的语言。他渴望从灵魂深处向她呼喊，渴望将她的身体压在自己身上，征服她。但他说：

‘O, at Christmas, when he opened that little Christmas-card shop in Henry Street.’
“噢，圣诞节的时候，他在亨利街开了一家圣诞贺卡小店。”

He was in such a fever of rage and desire that he did not hear her come from the window. She stood before him for an instant, looking at him strangely. Then, suddenly raising herself on tiptoe and resting her hands lightly on his shoulders, she kissed him.
他正处于愤怒和欲望的狂热之中，以至于没有听到她从窗外传来的声音。她在他面前站了一会儿，奇怪地看着他。然后，她突然踮起脚尖，双手轻轻搭在他的肩膀上，吻了他。

‘You are a very generous person, Gabriel,’ she said.
“你是一个非常慷慨的人，加布里埃尔，”她说。

Gabriel, trembling with delight at her sudden kiss and at the quaintness of her phrase, put his hands on her hair and began smoothing it back, scarcely touching it with his fingers. The washing had made it fine and brilliant. His heart was brimming over with happiness. Just when he was wishing for it she had come to him of her own accord. Perhaps her thoughts had been running with his. Perhaps she had felt the impetuous desire that was in him, and then the yielding mood had come upon her. Now that she had fallen to him so easily, he wondered why he had been so diffident.
加百列因她突如其来的吻和她古怪的话语而高兴得浑身发抖，他把手放在她的头发上，开始抚平它，手指几乎没有碰触它。经过洗涤，它变得精致而光亮。他的心里充满了幸福。就在他如此期盼的时候，她却主动来到了他的身边。也许她的想法一直与他的想法一致。或许她感受到了他内心的冲动，于是就有了屈服的心情。既然她如此轻易地就爱上了他，他不知道自己为何如此胆怯。

He stood, holding her head between his hands. Then, slipping one arm swiftly about her body and drawing her towards him, he said softly:
他站起来，双手捧着她的头。然后，他迅速用一只手臂搂住她的身体，将她拉向自己，轻声说道：

‘Gretta, dear, what are you thinking about?’
“格蕾塔，亲爱的，你在想什么？”

She did not answer nor yield wholly to his arm. He said again, softly:
她没有回答，也没有完全屈服于他的手臂。他又轻声说道：

‘Tell me what it is, Gretta. I think I know what is the matter. Do I know?’
“告诉我那是什么，格蕾塔。我想我知道是怎么回事了。我知道吗？'

She did not answer at once. Then she said in an outburst of tears:
她没有立即回答。然后她泪流满面地说：

‘O, I am thinking about that song, The Lass of Aughrim.’
“哦，我在想那首歌，《奥格里姆的少女》。”

She broke loose from him and ran to the bed and, throwing her arms across the bed-rail, hid her face. Gabriel stood stockstill for a moment in astonishment and then followed her. As he passed in the way of the cheval-glass he caught sight of himself in full length, his broad, well-filled shirt-front, the face whose expression always puzzled him when he saw it in a mirror, and his glimmering gilt-rimmed eyeglasses. He halted a few paces from her and said:
她挣脱他的束缚，跑到床边，用双臂撑住床栏，遮住脸。加百列惊讶地一动不动地站着，然后跟在她后面。当他经过骑士镜的时候，他看到了自己的全身，宽阔、丰满的衬衫前襟，当他在镜子里看到时，他的表情总是让他困惑的脸，还有他闪闪发光的镀金——有框眼镜。他在离她几步远的地方停下来，说道：

‘What about the song? Why does that make you cry?’
‘那首歌呢？为什么这会让你哭泣？

She raised her head from her arms and dried her eyes with the back of her hand like a child. A kinder note than he had intended went into his voice.
她从怀里抬起头，像个孩子一样用手背擦干眼睛。他的声音里带着比他预想的更加友善的语调。

‘Why, Gretta?’ he asked.
“为什么，格蕾塔？”他问。

‘I am thinking about a person long ago who used to sing that song.’
“我想起很久以前曾经唱过那首歌的一个人。”

‘And who was the person long ago?’ asked Gabriel, smiling.
“很久以前那个人是谁？”加百列微笑着问道。

‘It was a person I used to know in Galway when I was living with my grandmother,’ she said.
“这是我在戈尔韦认识的一个人，当时我和祖母住在一起，”她说。

The smile passed away from Gabriel’s face. A dull anger began to gather again at the back of his mind and the dull fires of his lust began to glow angrily in his veins.
加百列脸上的笑容消失了。一股暗淡的愤怒开始再次在他的脑海深处聚集，暗淡的情欲之火开始在他的血管中愤怒地燃烧。

‘Someone you were in love with?’ he asked ironically.
“你爱过的人吗？”他讽刺地问道。

‘It was a young boy I used to know,’ she answered, ‘named Michael Furey. He used to sing that song, The Lass of Aughrim. He was very delicate.’
“这是我以前认识的一个小男孩，”她回答道，“名叫迈克尔·福雷。”他曾经唱过那首歌《奥格里姆的少女》。他非常脆弱。

Gabriel was silent. He did not wish her to think that he was interested in this delicate boy.
加百列沉默了。他不想让她以为他对这个娇弱的男孩感兴趣。

‘I can see him so plainly,’ she said, after a moment. ‘Such eyes as he had: big, dark eyes! And such an expression in them—an expression!’
“我可以清楚地看到他，”过了一会儿她说道。 “他有这样的眼睛：又大又黑的眼睛！”他们身上有这样的表情——一个表情！

‘O, then, you are in love with him?’ said Gabriel.
“哦，那么，你爱上了他吗？”加百列说道。

‘I used to go out walking with him,’ she said, ‘when I was in Galway.’
“当我在戈尔韦的时候，我经常和他一起出去散步，”她说。

A thought flew across Gabriel’s mind.
加百列的脑海中闪过一个念头。

‘Perhaps that was why you wanted to go to Galway with that Ivors girl?’ he said coldly.
“也许这就是你想和那个艾弗斯女孩一起去戈尔韦的原因？”他冷冷地说。

She looked at him and asked in surprise:
她看着他，惊讶地问道：

‘What for?’
'做什么的？'

Her eyes made Gabriel feel awkward. He shrugged his shoulders and said:
她的眼神让加百列感到尴尬。他耸耸肩说道：

‘How do I know? To see him, perhaps.’
'我怎么知道？也许是为了见他。

She looked away from him along the shaft of light towards the window in silence.
她的目光从他身上移开，顺着光柱看向窗外，沉默不语。

‘He is dead,’ she said at length. ‘He died when he was only seventeen. Isn’t it a terrible thing to die so young as that?’
“他死了，”她最后说道。 “他十七岁时就去世了。这么年轻就死了，这不是一件可怕的事情吗？

‘What was he?’ asked Gabriel, still ironically.
“他是什么？”加百列问道，语气依然讽刺。

‘He was in the gasworks,’ she said.
“他在煤气厂，”她说。

Gabriel felt humiliated by the failure of his irony and by the evocation of this figure from the dead, a boy in the gasworks. While he had been full of memories of their secret life together, full of tenderness and joy and desire, she had been comparing him in her mind with another. A shameful consciousness of his own person assailed him. He saw himself as a ludicrous figure, acting as a pennyboy for his aunts, a nervous, well-meaning sentimentalist, orating to vulgarians and idealising his own clownish lusts, the pitiable fatuous fellow he had caught a glimpse of in the mirror. Instinctively he turned his back more to the light lest she might see the shame that burned upon his forehead.
加布里埃尔因他的讽刺失败而感到羞辱，并因这个人物从死里复活，一个煤气厂的男孩而感到羞辱。当他充满了他们在一起的秘密生活的回忆时，充满了温柔、欢乐和渴望，她却在心里把他和另一个人进行了比较。一种对自己的羞耻感向他袭来。他认为自己是一个可笑的人物，充当姨妈们的小费童子，一个神经质、善意的多愁善感者，向庸俗的人演说，并将自己的小丑欲望理想化，他在镜子里瞥见了一个可怜的愚蠢的家伙。他本能地更多地背对着光，以免她看到他额头上燃烧的羞耻。

He tried to keep up his tone of cold interrogation, but his voice when he spoke was humble and indifferent.
他努力保持着冷酷审问的语气，但说话的语气却是谦虚淡漠。

‘I suppose you were in love with this Michael Furey, Gretta,’ he said.
“我猜你爱上了迈克尔·福瑞，格蕾塔，”他说。

‘I was great with him at that time,’ she said.
“当时我和他相处得很好，”她说。

Her voice was veiled and sad. Gabriel, feeling now how vain it would be to try to lead her whither he had purposed, caressed one of her hands and said, also sadly:
她的声音含蓄而悲伤。加百列现在觉得试图把她带到他预定的地方是多么徒劳，他抚摸着她的一只手，同样悲伤地说：

‘And what did he die of so young, Gretta? Consumption, was it?’
“格蕾塔，他这么年轻是怎么死的？”消费，是吗？

‘I think he died for me,’ she answered.
“我认为他是为我而死，”她回答道。

A vague terror seized Gabriel at this answer, as if, at that hour when he had hoped to triumph, some impalpable and vindictive being was coming against him, gathering forces against him in its vague world. But he shook himself free of it with an effort of reason and continued to caress her hand. He did not question her again, for he felt that she would tell him of herself. Her hand was warm and moist: it did not respond to his touch, but he continued to caress it just as he had caressed her first letter to him that spring morning.
听到这个答案，加百列感到一种隐约的恐惧，仿佛就在他希望取得胜利的那一刻，某种无形的、充满报复心的存在正在向他袭来，在它模糊的世界里集结力量来对付他。但他理智地挣脱了束缚，继续抚摸着她的手。他没有再问她，因为他觉得她会告诉他她自己的事。她的手温暖而湿润：它对他的触摸没有反应，但他继续爱抚它，就像那个春天的早晨爱抚她给他的第一封信一样。

‘It was in the winter,’ she said, ‘about the beginning of the winter when I was going to leave my grandmother’s and come up here to the convent. And he was ill at the time in his lodgings in Galway and wouldn’t be let out, and his people in Oughterard were written to. He was in decline, they said, or something like that. I never knew rightly.’
“那是在冬天，”她说，“大约是初冬的时候，我要离开祖母家，来到这里的修道院。当时他在戈尔韦的住处生病了，不肯被放出来，他在乌特拉德的人也收到了信。他们说，他正在衰落，或者类似的说法。我从来没有正确地知道过。

She paused for a moment and sighed.
她停顿了一会儿，叹了口气。

‘Poor fellow,’ she said. ‘He was very fond of me and he was such a gentle boy. We used to go out together, walking, you know, Gabriel, like the way they do in the country. He was going to study singing only for his health. He had a very good voice, poor Michael Furey.’
“可怜的家伙，”她说。 “他非常喜欢我，他是一个非常温柔的男孩。我们过去经常一起出去散步，你知道，加布里埃尔，就像他们在乡下那样。他学习歌唱只是为了健康。可怜的迈克尔·福雷，他的声音很好听。”

‘Well; and then?’ asked Gabriel.
'出色地;然后呢？”加百列问道。

‘And then when it came to the time for me to leave Galway and come up to the convent he was much worse and I wouldn’t be let see him so I wrote him a letter saying I was going up to Dublin and would be back in the summer, and hoping he would be better then.’
“当我要离开戈尔韦去修道院时，他的情况变得更糟了，我不被允许见他，所以我给他写了一封信，说我要去都柏林，然后就会回来。”夏天的时候，希望他那时会更好。”

She paused for a moment to get her voice under control, and then went on:
她停顿了一下，控制住自己的声音，然后继续说道：

‘Then the night before I left, I was in my grandmother’s house in Nuns’ Island, packing up, and I heard gravel thrown up against the window. The window was so wet I couldn’t see, so I ran downstairs as I was and slipped out the back into the garden and there was the poor fellow at the end of the garden, shivering.’
“然后在我离开的前一天晚上，我在修女岛祖母的家里收拾行李，我听到碎石被扔到窗户上的声音。窗户太湿了，我看不见，所以我就跑下楼，从后面溜到花园里，那个可怜的家伙在花园的尽头，瑟瑟发抖。

‘And did you not tell him to go back?’ asked Gabriel.
“你没有叫他回去吗？”加百列问道。

‘I implored of him to go home at once and told him he would get his death in the rain. But he said he did not want to live. I can see his eyes as well as well! He was standing at the end of the wall where there was a tree.’
“我恳求他立即回家，并告诉他他会在雨中死去。但他说他不想活了。我也能看到他的眼睛！他站在墙的尽头，那里有一棵树。

‘And did he go home?’ asked Gabriel.
“他回家了吗？”加百列问道。

‘Yes, he went home. And when I was only a week in the convent he died and he was buried in Oughterard, where his people came from. O, the day I heard that, that he was dead!’
‘是的，他回家了。当我在修道院才呆了一周时，他就去世了，并被埋葬在乌特拉德，他的族人来自那里。哦，那天我听说他死了！

She stopped, choking with sobs, and, overcome by emotion, flung herself face downward on the bed, sobbing in the quilt. Gabriel held her hand for a moment longer, irresolutely, and then, shy of intruding on her grief, let it fall gently and walked quietly to the window.
她停了下来，哽咽着，情绪激动，脸朝下扑倒在床上，在被子里抽泣。加百列又犹豫地握着她的手一会儿，然后，为了避免打扰她的悲伤，轻轻地放开她的手，静静地走到窗边。



She was fast asleep.
她睡得很熟。

Gabriel, leaning on his elbow, looked for a few moments unresentfully on her tangled hair and half-open mouth, listening to her deep-drawn breath. So she had had that romance in her life: a man had died for her sake. It hardly pained him now to think how poor a part he, her husband, had played in her life. He watched her while she slept, as though he and she had never lived together as man and wife. His curious eyes rested long upon her face and on her hair: and, as he thought of what she must have been then, in that time of her first girlish beauty, a strange, friendly pity for her entered his soul. He did not like to say even to himself that her face was no longer beautiful, but he knew that it was no longer the face for which Michael Furey had braved death.
加百列靠在胳膊肘上，平静地看了一会儿她乱糟糟的头发和半张着的嘴，听着她深呼吸的声音。所以她的一生中曾有过这样的浪漫：一个男人为她而死。现在，一想到他，她的丈夫，在她的生活中所扮演的角色是多么的可怜，他几乎不会感到痛苦。他在她熟睡时看着她，就好像他和她从来没有作为夫妻生活在一起一样。他好奇的目光长时间停留在她的脸和她的头发上：当他想到她当时的样子，在她第一次少女般美丽的时候，一种对她的奇怪而友好的怜悯进入了他的灵魂。他甚至不愿意对自己说她的脸不再美丽，但他知道那不再是迈克尔·福雷冒着死亡的脸。

Perhaps she had not told him all the story. His eyes moved to the chair over which she had thrown some of her clothes. A petticoat string dangled to the floor. One boot stood upright, its limp upper fallen down: the fellow of it lay upon its side. He wondered at his riot of emotions of an hour before. From what had it proceeded? From his aunt’s supper, from his own foolish speech, from the wine and dancing, the merry-making when saying good-night in the hall, the pleasure of the walk along the river in the snow. Poor Aunt Julia! She, too, would soon be a shade with the shade of Patrick Morkan and his horse. He had caught that haggard look upon her face for a moment when she was singing Arrayed for the Bridal. Soon, perhaps, he would be sitting in that same drawing-room, dressed in black, his silk hat on his knees. The blinds would be drawn down and Aunt Kate would be sitting beside him, crying and blowing her nose and telling him how Julia had died. He would cast about in his mind for some words that might console her, and would find only lame and useless ones. Yes, yes: that would happen very soon.
也许她没有告诉他所有的故事。他的目光移向她扔了一些衣服的椅子。一条衬裙绳子悬在地板上。一只靴子直立着，柔软的鞋帮掉了下来：另一只靴子侧躺着。他对自己一个小时前的情绪波动感到惊讶。它是从什么开始的？从姨妈的晚饭，从自己的傻话，从酒舞，从大厅里道晚安时的欢乐，从雪中沿着河边散步的乐趣。可怜的朱莉娅阿姨！她也很快就会成为帕特里克·莫坎和他的马的影子。当她唱《为新娘排列》时，他曾一度注意到她脸上憔悴的表情。也许很快，他就会坐在同一个客厅里，穿着黑衣服，丝质帽子放在膝盖上。百叶窗会被拉下，凯特姨妈会坐在他旁边，哭着擤着鼻子，告诉他朱莉娅是怎么死的。他在心里翻来覆去地寻找一些可以安慰她的话，却只找到蹩脚无用的话。是的，是的：那很快就会发生。

The air of the room chilled his shoulders. He stretched himself cautiously along under the sheets and lay down beside his wife. One by one, they were all becoming shades. Better pass boldly into that other world, in the full glory of some passion, than fade and wither dismally with age. He thought of how she who lay beside him had locked in her heart for so many years that image of her lover’s eyes when he had told her that he did not wish to live.
房间里的空气让他的肩膀发冷。他小心翼翼地在床单下伸了个懒腰，躺在妻子身边。一一化作了影子。与其随着年龄的增长而消退、枯萎，不如勇敢地进入另一个世界，在某种激情的充分荣耀中。他想起，躺在他身边的她，多年来，在他告诉她自己不想活的时候，她爱人的眼神，是如何锁在心里的。

Generous tears filled Gabriel’s eyes. He had never felt like that himself towards any woman, but he knew that such a feeling must be love. The tears gathered more thickly in his eyes and in the partial darkness he imagined he saw the form of a young man standing under a dripping tree. Other forms were near. His soul had approached that region where dwell the vast hosts of the dead. He was conscious of, but could not apprehend, their wayward and flickering existence. His own identity was fading out into a grey impalpable world: the solid world itself, which these dead had one time reared and lived in, was dissolving and dwindling.
加百列的眼里充满了慷慨的泪水。他自己从来没有对任何一个女人有过这样的感觉，但他知道，这样的感觉一定是爱。他眼里的泪水愈加浓密，在昏暗的夜色中，他想象自己看到了一个年轻人的身影，站在一棵滴着水的树下。其他形式也在附近。他的灵魂已经接近了那片死者大军居住的地方。他意识到，但无法理解它们任性且忽隐忽现的存在。他自己的身份正在消失在一个灰色的、难以捉摸的世界中：这些死者曾经养育和生活过的坚实的世界本身正在溶解和缩小。

A few light taps upon the pane made him turn to the window. It had begun to snow again. He watched sleepily the flakes, silver and dark, falling obliquely against the lamplight. The time had come for him to set out on his journey westward. Yes, the newspapers were right: snow was general all over Ireland. It was falling on every part of the dark central plain, on the treeless hills, falling softly upon the Bog of Allen and, farther westward, softly falling into the dark mutinous Shannon waves. It was falling, too, upon every part of the lonely churchyard on the hill where Michael Furey lay buried. It lay thickly drifted on the crooked crosses and headstones, on the spears of the little gate, on the barren thorns. His soul swooned slowly as he heard the snow falling faintly through the universe and faintly falling, like the descent of their last end, upon all the living and the dead.
轻轻敲击了几下窗玻璃，他就转向窗户。天又开始下雪了。他睡眼惺忪地看着银色的黑色雪花在灯光下倾斜地落下。他该踏上西行之路了。是的，报纸是对的：爱尔兰各地都在下雪。它落在黑暗的中部平原的每一个地方，落在没有树木的山丘上，轻轻地落在艾伦沼泽上，再向西，轻轻地落在黑暗的叛乱的香农波浪中。它也落在迈克尔·福雷埋葬的山上孤独的墓地的每一个地方。它厚厚地漂浮在弯曲的十字架和墓碑上，落在小门的矛上，落在光秃秃的荆棘丛上。当他听到雪花微弱地穿过宇宙，微弱地落在所有生者和死者身上时，他的灵魂慢慢地昏了过去，就像他们最后的结局一样。