
A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man
艺术家年轻时的肖像

By By James Joycew
作者：詹姆斯·乔伊斯

Chapter 1
第1章

Once upon a time and a very good time it was there was a moocow coming down along the road and this moocow that was coming down along the road met a nicens little boy named baby tuckoo...
从前，有一个非常美好的时光，有一只莫牛沿着路走下来，这只莫牛沿着路走下来，遇到了一个尼森斯小男孩，名叫小塔谷……

His father told him that story: his father looked at him through a glass: he had a hairy face.
他的父亲给他讲了这个故事：他的父亲透过镜子看着他：他有一张毛茸茸的脸。

He was baby tuckoo. The moocow came down the road where Betty Byrne lived: she sold lemon platt.
他是个小宝宝。莫牛沿着贝蒂·伯恩住的路走来：她卖柠檬普拉特。

O, the wild rose blossoms
哦，野玫瑰花开

On the little green place.
在那片小绿地上。

He sang that song. That was his song.
他唱了那首歌。那是他的歌。

O, the green wothe botheth.
噢，绿色是值得的。

When you wet the bed first it is warm then it gets cold. His mother put on the oilsheet. That had the queer smell.
当你先弄湿床时，床会很热，然后就会变冷。他的母亲贴上了油布。那有一种奇怪的气味。

His mother had a nicer smell than his father. She played on the piano the sailor’s hornpipe for him to dance. He danced:
他母亲的气味比他父亲好闻。她在钢琴上弹奏水手的号角让他跳舞。他跳舞：

Tralala lala,
特拉啦啦啦啦，

Tralala tralaladdy,
特拉拉拉特拉拉拉迪，

Tralala lala,
特拉啦啦啦啦，

Tralala lala.
啦啦啦啦。

Uncle Charles and Dante clapped. They were older than his father and mother but uncle Charles was older than Dante.
查尔斯叔叔和但丁鼓掌。他们比他的父母年长，但查尔斯叔叔比但丁年长。

Dante had two brushes in her press. The brush with the maroon velvet back was for Michael Davitt and the brush with the green velvet back was for Parnell. Dante gave him a cachou every time he brought her a piece of tissue paper.
但丁的印刷机上有两把刷子。栗色天鹅绒背面的刷子是给迈克尔戴维特的，绿色天鹅绒背面的刷子是给帕内尔的。但丁每次给她带来一张薄纸时，都会给他一杯咖啡。

The Vances lived in number seven. They had a different father and mother. They were Eileen’s father and mother. When they were grown up he was going to marry Eileen. He hid under the table. His mother said:
万斯一家住在七号。他们有不同的父亲和母亲。他们是艾琳的父亲和母亲。当他们长大后，他要娶艾琳。他躲在桌子底下。他的母亲说：

—O, Stephen will apologize.
——哦，史蒂芬会道歉的。

Dante said:
但丁说：

—O, if not, the eagles will come and pull out his eyes.—
——噢，否则的话，老鹰就会来啄他的眼睛。——

Pull out his eyes,
把他的眼睛挖出来，

Apologize,
道歉，

Apologize,
道歉，

Pull out his eyes.
把他的眼睛挖出来。

Apologize,
道歉，

Pull out his eyes,
把他的眼睛挖出来，

Pull out his eyes,
把他的眼睛挖出来，

Apologize.
道歉。

*****

The wide playgrounds were swarming with boys. All were shouting and the prefects urged them on with strong cries. The evening air was pale and chilly and after every charge and thud of the footballers the greasy leather orb flew like a heavy bird through the grey light. He kept on the fringe of his line, out of sight of his prefect, out of the reach of the rude feet, feigning to run now and then. He felt his body small and weak amid the throng of the players and his eyes were weak and watery. Rody Kickham was not like that: he would be captain of the third line all the fellows said.
宽阔的操场上挤满了男孩。所有人都在喊叫，级长们也用强烈的呼喊催促他们前进。傍晚的空气苍白而寒冷，在足球运动员的每一次冲锋和撞击之后，油腻的皮革球像一只沉重的鸟一样飞过灰色的光线。他一直走在队伍的边缘，远离他的级长的视线，远离那些粗鲁的脚步，时不时假装要逃跑。在人群中，他感觉自己的身体渺小无力，眼睛也无力水汪汪的。罗迪·基卡姆不是那样的：所有人都说他会成为第三线的队长。

Rody Kickham was a decent fellow but Nasty Roche was a stink. Rody Kickham had greaves in his number and a hamper in the refectory. Nasty Roche had big hands. He called the Friday pudding dog-in-the-blanket. And one day he had asked:
罗迪·基卡姆（Rody Kickham）是个正派的人，但讨厌的罗奇（Roche）却很臭。罗迪·基卡姆的号码里有护胫，食堂里有一个篮子。讨厌的罗氏有一双大手。他称星期五布丁为“毯子里的狗”。有一天，他问：

—What is your name?
-你叫什么名字？

Stephen had answered: Stephen Dedalus.
斯蒂芬回答说：斯蒂芬·迪达勒斯。

Then Nasty Roche had said:
然后讨厌的罗氏说：

—What kind of a name is that?
——这是什么样的名字？

And when Stephen had not been able to answer Nasty Roche had asked:
当斯蒂芬无法回答时，讨厌的罗奇问道：

—What is your father?
——你的父亲是什么？

Stephen had answered:
斯蒂芬回答说：

—A gentleman.
-一个绅士。

Then Nasty Roche had asked:
然后讨厌的罗氏问道：

—Is he a magistrate?
——他是法官吗？

He crept about from point to point on the fringe of his line, making little runs now and then. But his hands were bluish with cold. He kept his hands in the side pockets of his belted grey suit. That was a belt round his pocket. And belt was also to give a fellow a belt. One day a fellow said to Cantwell:
他在队伍的边缘爬来爬去，时不时地小跑一下。但他的手却冻得青紫。他把手插在系着腰带的灰色西装的侧袋里。那是他口袋里的一条皮带。腰带也是给一个人一条腰带。有一天，一个人对坎特威尔说：

—I’d give you such a belt in a second.
——我马上就会给你一条这样的腰带。

Cantwell had answered:
坎特威尔回答说：

—Go and fight your match. Give Cecil Thunder a belt. I’d like to see you. He’d give you a toe in the rump for yourself.
——去和你的对手战斗吧。给塞西尔·雷霆一条腰带。我很想见你。他会亲自对你进行攻击。

That was not a nice expression. His mother had told him not to speak with the rough boys in the college. Nice mother! The first day in the hall of the castle when she had said goodbye she had put up her veil double to her nose to kiss him: and her nose and eyes were red. But he had pretended not to see that she was going to cry. She was a nice mother but she was not so nice when she cried. And his father had given him two five-shilling pieces for pocket money. And his father had told him if he wanted anything to write home to him and, whatever he did, never to peach on a fellow. Then at the door of the castle the rector had shaken hands with his father and mother, his soutane fluttering in the breeze, and the car had driven off with his father and mother on it. They had cried to him from the car, waving their hands:
这可不是一个好听的表情。他的母亲告诉他不要和大学里那些粗鲁的男孩说话。好妈妈！第一天在城堡的大厅里告别时，她把面纱拉到鼻子上亲吻他：她的鼻子和眼睛都是红色的。但他假装没有看到她要哭。她是一个好妈妈，但哭起来就不太好了。他父亲给了他两块五先令的零花钱。他的父亲告诉他，如果他想写信给他，无论他做什么，都不要去觊觎别人。然后，在城堡门口，教区长与他的父母握手，他的苏坦尼在微风中飘扬，汽车开走了，载着他的父母。他们在车上挥手向他喊道：

—Goodbye, Stephen, goodbye!
——再见，史蒂芬，再见！

—Goodbye, Stephen, goodbye!
——再见，史蒂芬，再见！

He was caught in the whirl of a scrimmage and, fearful of the flashing eyes and muddy boots, bent down to look through the legs. The fellows were struggling and groaning and their legs were rubbing and kicking and stamping. Then Jack Lawton’s yellow boots dodged out the ball and all the other boots and legs ran after. He ran after them a little way and then stopped. It was useless to run on. Soon they would be going home for the holidays. After supper in the study hall he would change the number pasted up inside his desk from seventy-seven to seventy-six.
他陷入了混战的漩涡中，由于害怕闪烁的眼睛和沾满泥的靴子，他弯下身子往腿里看。伙计们挣扎着、呻吟着，双腿又蹭又踢又跺脚。然后杰克·劳顿的黄色靴子躲开了球，所有其他靴子和腿都追了上去。他追着他们跑了一段距离，然后停了下来。继续跑是没有用的。很快他们就要回家过节了。晚饭后在自习室里，他会把贴在桌子上的数字从七十七改成七十六。

It would be better to be in the study hall than out there in the cold. The sky was pale and cold but there were lights in the castle. He wondered from which window Hamilton Rowan had thrown his hat on the ha-ha and had there been flowerbeds at that time under the windows. One day when he had been called to the castle the butler had shown him the marks of the soldiers’ slugs in the wood of the door and had given him a piece of shortbread that the community ate. It was nice and warm to see the lights in the castle. It was like something in a book. Perhaps Leicester Abbey was like that. And there were nice sentences in Doctor Cornwell’s Spelling Book. They were like poetry but they were only sentences to learn the spelling from.
在自习室里总比在寒冷的外面好。天空苍白寒冷，但城堡里却亮着灯光。他想知道汉密尔顿·罗文是从哪个窗户向哈哈投掷帽子的，当时窗户下面有花坛吗？有一天，当他被叫到城堡时，管家给他看了门木上的士兵鼻涕虫痕迹，并给了他一块全村人都吃的脆饼。看到城堡里的灯光真是美好又温暖。就像书上的东西一样。也许莱斯特修道院就是这样。康威尔博士的拼写书里有很多好句子。它们就像诗歌，但只是用来学习拼写的句子。

Wolsey died in Leicester Abbey
沃尔西在莱斯特修道院去世

Where the abbots buried him.
住持们埋葬他的地方。

Canker is a disease of plants,
溃疡病是一种植物病害，

Cancer one of animals.
癌症动物之一。

It would be nice to lie on the hearthrug before the fire, leaning his head upon his hands, and think on those sentences. He shivered as if he had cold slimy water next his skin. That was mean of Wells to shoulder him into the square ditch because he would not swop his little snuff box for Wells’s seasoned hacking chestnut, the conqueror of forty. How cold and slimy the water had been! A fellow had once seen a big rat jump into the scum. Mother was sitting at the fire with Dante waiting for Brigid to bring in the tea. She had her feet on the fender and her jewelly slippers were so hot and they had such a lovely warm smell! Dante knew a lot of things. She had taught him where the Mozambique Channel was and what was the longest river in America and what was the name of the highest mountain in the moon. Father Arnall knew more than Dante because he was a priest but both his father and uncle Charles said that Dante was a clever woman and a well-read woman. And when Dante made that noise after dinner and then put up her hand to her mouth: that was heartburn.
如果能躺在炉火前的壁炉地毯上，将头靠在双手上，思考这些句子，那该多好啊。他浑身发抖，仿佛皮肤上沾满了冰冷粘稠的水。威尔斯把他推入方沟实在是太卑鄙了，因为他不愿意用自己的小鼻烟盒去换威尔斯的经验丰富的劈栗子，四十岁的征服者。水是多么冰冷、多么粘稠啊！曾经有一个人看到一只大老鼠跳进浮渣里。母亲和但丁坐在火边等待布里吉德把茶端进来。她的脚放在挡泥板上，她的宝石拖鞋很热，而且有一种可爱的温暖气味！但丁知道很多事情。她告诉他莫桑比克海峡在哪里、美国最长的河流是哪条以及月球上最高的山的名字是什么。阿纳尔神父比但丁懂得更多，因为他是一名牧师，但他的父亲和叔叔查尔斯都说但丁是一个聪明的女人，也是一个博学的女人。当但丁在晚餐后发出那种声音，然后把手放到嘴边时：那就是胃灼热。

A voice cried far out on the playground:
操场上远处传来一个声音：

—All in!
——全力以赴！

Then other voices cried from the lower and third lines:
然后其他声音从下面和第三行喊道：

—All in! All in!
——全力以赴！全部投入！

The players closed around, flushed and muddy, and he went among them, glad to go in. Rody Kickham held the ball by its greasy lace. A fellow asked him to give it one last: but he walked on without even answering the fellow. Simon Moonan told him not to because the prefect was looking. The fellow turned to Simon Moonan and said:
球员们围了过来，脸色通红，浑身是泥，他走进了他们中间，很高兴能进去。罗迪·基克汉姆用油腻的鞋带握住了球。一个人请他最后一次，但他甚至没有回答那个人，就继续走着。西蒙·穆南告诉他不要这样做，因为级长正在寻找。那家伙转向西蒙·穆南说道：

—We all know why you speak. You are McGlade’s suck.
——我们都知道你为什么说话。你是麦格莱德的傻瓜。

Suck was a queer word. The fellow called Simon Moonan that name because Simon Moonan used to tie the prefect’s false sleeves behind his back and the prefect used to let on to be angry. But the sound was ugly. Once he had washed his hands in the lavatory of the Wicklow Hotel and his father pulled the stopper up by the chain after and the dirty water went down through the hole in the basin. And when it had all gone down slowly the hole in the basin had made a sound like that: suck. Only louder.
“糟糕”是一个奇怪的词。那家伙给西蒙·穆南起了这个名字，因为西蒙·穆南常常把知府的假袖子系在背后，而知府则常常表现出生气的样子。但声音很难听。有一次，他在威克洛旅馆的厕所洗手后，父亲用链子拉起塞子，脏水就从脸盆的洞里流了下来。当一切慢慢下降时，盆里的洞发出了这样的声音：吸。只会更大声。

To remember that and the white look of the lavatory made him feel cold and then hot. There were two cocks that you turned and water came out: cold and hot. He felt cold and then a little hot: and he could see the names printed on the cocks. That was a very queer thing.
想起这一点，再加上厕所那白色的样子，他感到一阵寒冷，然后又感到一阵炎热。你转动两个旋塞，就会流出水：冷的和热的。他感觉很冷，然后有点热：他可以看到雄鸽上印着的名字。这是一件非常奇怪的事情。

And the air in the corridor chilled him too. It was queer and wettish. But soon the gas would be lit and in burning it made a light noise like a little song. Always the same: and when the fellows stopped talking in the playroom you could hear it.
走廊里的空气也让他感到寒冷。这是奇怪和潮湿的。但很快煤气就会被点燃，燃烧时会发出像一首小歌一样的轻微声音。总是一样的：当游戏室里的人停止说话时，你就能听到。

It was the hour for sums. Father Arnall wrote a hard sum on the board and then said:
这是算算的时间。阿纳尔神父在黑板上写下了一笔硬性的数字，然后说道：

—Now then, who will win? Go ahead, York! Go ahead, Lancaster!
——那么，谁会赢呢？加油，约克！加油，兰卡斯特！

Stephen tried his best, but the sum was too hard and he felt confused. The little silk badge with the white rose on it that was pinned on the breast of his jacket began to flutter. He was no good at sums, but he tried his best so that York might not lose. Father Arnall’s face looked very black, but he was not in a wax: he was laughing. Then Jack Lawton cracked his fingers and Father Arnall looked at his copybook and said:
斯蒂芬尽了最大努力，但总和太难了，他感到困惑。他夹克胸前别着的那枚印有白玫瑰的丝绸小徽章开始飘动。他不擅长算术，但他尽力不让约克输。阿纳尔神父的脸看起来很黑，但他并没有蜡像：他在笑。然后杰克·劳顿打响了手指，阿纳尔神父看着他的习字本说道：

—Right. Bravo Lancaster! The red rose wins. Come on now, York! Forge ahead!
-正确的。好极了兰卡斯特！红玫瑰获胜。来吧，约克！锐意进取！

Jack Lawton looked over from his side. The little silk badge with the red rose on it looked very rich because he had a blue sailor top on. Stephen felt his own face red too, thinking of all the bets about who would get first place in elements, Jack Lawton or he. Some weeks Jack Lawton got the card for first and some weeks he got the card for first. His white silk badge fluttered and fluttered as he worked at the next sum and heard Father Arnall’s voice. Then all his eagerness passed away and he felt his face quite cool. He thought his face must be white because it felt so cool. He could not get out the answer for the sum but it did not matter. White roses and red roses: those were beautiful colours to think of. And the cards for first place and second place and third place were beautiful colours too: pink and cream and lavender. Lavender and cream and pink roses were beautiful to think of. Perhaps a wild rose might be like those colours and he remembered the song about the wild rose blossoms on the little green place. But you could not have a green rose. But perhaps somewhere in the world you could.
杰克·劳顿从他身边看过去。上面印着红玫瑰的丝绸小徽章看起来很富丽堂皇，因为他穿着一件蓝色的水手上衣。斯蒂芬也觉得自己的脸红了，想着所有关于谁会获得元素第一名的赌注，杰克·劳顿还是他。杰克·劳顿（Jack Lawton）有几周是第一个拿到卡的，有几周他是第一个拿到卡的。当他计算下一个算数时，他的白色丝绸徽章不断飘动，并听到了阿纳尔神父的声音。然后所有的急切都消失了，他感觉自己的脸变得凉爽起来。他想他的脸一定是白的，因为感觉很凉爽。他无法得出总数的答案，但这并不重要。白玫瑰和红玫瑰：这些颜色想想都很美丽。第一名、第二名和第三名的卡片颜色也很漂亮：粉色、奶油色和淡紫色。薰衣草、奶油色和粉红玫瑰想想都很美丽。也许野玫瑰就像那些颜色，他记得那首关于小绿地里野玫瑰花开的歌。但你不可能拥有绿玫瑰。但也许在世界的某个地方你可以。

The bell rang and then the classes began to file out of the rooms and along the corridors towards the refectory. He sat looking at the two prints of butter on his plate but could not eat the damp bread. The tablecloth was damp and limp. But he drank off the hot weak tea which the clumsy scullion, girt with a white apron, poured into his cup. He wondered whether the scullion’s apron was damp too or whether all white things were cold and damp. Nasty Roche and Saurin drank cocoa that their people sent them in tins. They said they could not drink the tea; that it was hogwash. Their fathers were magistrates, the fellows said.
铃声响起，然后班级开始鱼贯走出教室，沿着走廊朝食堂走去。他坐在那儿看着盘子里的两道黄油印，却吃不下湿面包。桌布又湿又软。但他还是喝掉了系着白围裙的笨手笨脚的仆人倒进他杯子里的热淡茶。他想知道是不是勤杂工的围裙也湿了，或者所有的白色东西都是又冷又湿。讨厌的罗奇和索林喝了他们的人送来的罐装可可。他们说不能喝茶；那是废话。同伴们说，他们的父亲是地方法官。

All the boys seemed to him very strange. They had all fathers and mothers and different clothes and voices. He longed to be at home and lay his head on his mother’s lap. But he could not: and so he longed for the play and study and prayers to be over and to be in bed.
他觉得所有的男孩都很奇怪。他们都有父亲和母亲，有不同的衣服和声音。他渴望回到家，把头枕在母亲的腿上。但他做不到：所以他渴望游戏、学习和祈祷结束，上床睡觉。

He drank another cup of hot tea and Fleming said:
他又喝了一杯热茶，弗莱明说道：

—What’s up? Have you a pain or what’s up with you?
-这是怎么回事？您是否感到疼痛或怎么了？

—I don’t know, Stephen said.
——我不知道，斯蒂芬说。

—Sick in your breadbasket, Fleming said, because your face looks white. It will go away.
——弗莱明说，你的粮仓里有病，因为你的脸看起来很白。它会消失。

—O yes, Stephen said.
——哦，是的，史蒂芬说。

But he was not sick there. He thought that he was sick in his heart if you could be sick in that place. Fleming was very decent to ask him. He wanted to cry. He leaned his elbows on the table and shut and opened the flaps of his ears. Then he heard the noise of the refectory every time he opened the flaps of his ears. It made a roar like a train at night. And when he closed the flaps the roar was shut off like a train going into a tunnel. That night at Dalkey the train had roared like that and then, when it went into the tunnel, the roar stopped. He closed his eyes and the train went on, roaring and then stopping; roaring again, stopping. It was nice to hear it roar and stop and then roar out of the tunnel again and then stop.
但他在那里并没有生病。他认为如果你能在那个地方生病，他的心就生病了。弗莱明非常有礼貌地邀请他。他想哭。他把胳膊肘靠在桌子上，合上又张开耳朵。然后，每次他睁开耳朵，他都会听到食堂里的喧闹声。它发出像夜间火车一样的轰鸣声。当他关闭襟翼时，轰鸣声就消失了，就像火车驶入隧道一样。那天晚上，在达尔基，火车就这样轰鸣着，然后，当它进入隧道时，轰鸣声停止了。他闭上眼睛，火车继续前行，轰鸣着，然后停了下来。再次咆哮，停了下来。很高兴听到它咆哮并停下来，然后再次咆哮出隧道，然后停下来。

Then the higher line fellows began to come down along the matting in the middle of the refectory, Paddy Rath and Jimmy Magee and the Spaniard who was allowed to smoke cigars and the little Portuguese who wore the woolly cap. And then the lower line tables and the tables of the third line. And every single fellow had a different way of walking.
然后，高层的人开始沿着食堂中间的席子走下来，帕迪·拉斯、吉米·马吉、被允许抽雪茄的西班牙人和戴着羊毛帽的小个子葡萄牙人。然后是下面一行的表格和第三行的表格。每个人都有不同的行走方式。

He sat in a corner of the playroom pretending to watch a game of dominoes and once or twice he was able to hear for an instant the little song of the gas. The prefect was at the door with some boys and Simon Moonan was knotting his false sleeves. He was telling them something about Tullabeg.
他坐在游戏室的一角，假装在看多米诺骨牌游戏，有那么一两次，他瞬间听到了煤气的小歌声。省长带着几个男孩站在门口，西蒙·穆南正在打结他的假袖子。他正在告诉他们一些关于塔拉贝格的事情。

Then he went away from the door and Wells came over to Stephen and said:
然后他离开了门，威尔斯走到斯蒂芬面前说：

—Tell us, Dedalus, do you kiss your mother before you go to bed?
——告诉我们，德达勒斯，你睡觉前会亲吻你的母亲吗？

Stephen answered:
斯蒂芬回答：

—I do.
-我愿意。

Wells turned to the other fellows and said:
威尔斯转向其他人说道：

—O, I say, here’s a fellow says he kisses his mother every night before he goes to bed.
——哦，我说，有一个人说他每天晚上睡觉前都会亲吻他的母亲。

The other fellows stopped their game and turned round, laughing. Stephen blushed under their eyes and said:
其他人也停下了游戏，转过身来，哈哈大笑。斯蒂芬在他们的眼底下脸红了，说道：

—I do not.
-我不。

Wells said:
威尔斯说：

—O, I say, here’s a fellow says he doesn’t kiss his mother before he goes to bed.
——哦，我说，有个家伙说他睡觉前不会亲吻他的母亲。

They all laughed again. Stephen tried to laugh with them. He felt his whole body hot and confused in a moment. What was the right answer to the question? He had given two and still Wells laughed. But Wells must know the right answer for he was in third of grammar. He tried to think of Wells’s mother but he did not dare to raise his eyes to Wells’s face. He did not like Wells’s face. It was Wells who had shouldered him into the square ditch the day before because he would not swop his little snuff box for Wells’s seasoned hacking chestnut, the conqueror of forty. It was a mean thing to do; all the fellows said it was. And how cold and slimy the water had been! And a fellow had once seen a big rat jump plop into the scum.
他们又都笑了。斯蒂芬试着和他们一起笑。他一瞬间感觉全身火热，浑身混乱。这个问题的正确答案是什么？他已经给了两个，但威尔斯仍然笑了。但威尔斯一定知道正确答案，因为他在语法上排名第三。他试图想起威尔斯的母亲，但不敢抬头看威尔斯的脸。他不喜欢威尔斯的脸。是威尔斯在前一天把他推到了方沟里，因为他不愿意用自己的小鼻烟盒去换威尔斯的经验丰富的砍栗子，四十岁的征服者。这是一件卑鄙的事。所有的人都说是的。水又冷又粘！还有一个人曾经见过一只大老鼠跳进浮渣里。

The cold slime of the ditch covered his whole body; and, when the bell rang for study and the lines filed out of the playrooms, he felt the cold air of the corridor and staircase inside his clothes. He still tried to think what was the right answer. Was it right to kiss his mother or wrong to kiss his mother? What did that mean, to kiss? You put your face up like that to say good night and then his mother put her face down. That was to kiss. His mother put her lips on his cheek; her lips were soft and they wetted his cheek; and they made a tiny little noise: kiss. Why did people do that with their two faces?
沟渠里冰冷的粘液覆盖了他的全身；当学习铃声响起，队伍鱼贯走出游戏室时，他感觉到走廊和楼梯的冷空气钻进了他的衣服。他仍在努力思考什么是正确的答案。亲吻母亲是对还是错？接吻是什么意思？你就这样抬起头来道晚安，然后他的妈妈就低下了头。那就是接吻。他的母亲把嘴唇放在他的脸颊上；她的嘴唇柔软，沾湿了他的脸颊。他们发出了轻微的声音：亲吻。为什么人们要用两张脸来做这种事？

Sitting in the study hall he opened the lid of his desk and changed the number pasted up inside from seventy-seven to seventy-six. But the Christmas vacation was very far away: but one time it would come because the earth moved round always.
坐在自习室里，他打开课桌盖，将里面贴着的数字从七十七改成了七十六。但圣诞假期还很遥远：但总有一天会到来，因为地球总是在转。

There was a picture of the earth on the first page of his geography: a big ball in the middle of clouds. Fleming had a box of crayons and one night during free study he had coloured the earth green and the clouds maroon. That was like the two brushes in Dante’s press, the brush with the green velvet back for Parnell and the brush with the maroon velvet back for Michael Davitt. But he had not told Fleming to colour them those colours. Fleming had done it himself.
他的地理课本的第一页上有一张地球的图片：云层中间有一个大球。弗莱明有一盒蜡笔，有一天晚上自由自习时，他把大地涂成了绿色，云朵涂成了栗色。这就像但丁出版社中的两把画笔，帕内尔的绿色天鹅绒背面的画笔和迈克尔戴维特的栗色天鹅绒背面的画笔。但他并没有告诉弗莱明给他们涂上那些颜色。弗莱明自己做到了。

He opened the geography to study the lesson; but he could not learn the names of places in America. Still they were all different places that had different names. They were all in different countries and the countries were in continents and the continents were in the world and the world was in the universe.
他打开地理课来学习；但他不知道美国的地名。但它们仍然是不同的地方，有不同的名字。他们都在不同的国家，国家在大陆，大陆在世界，世界在宇宙。

He turned to the flyleaf of the geography and read what he had written there: himself, his name and where he was.
他翻到地理扉页，读了上面写的内容：他自己、他的名字和他在哪里。

Stephen Dedalus
斯蒂芬·迪达勒斯

Class of Elements
元素类别

Clongowes Wood College
克朗戈斯伍德学院

Sallins
萨林斯

County Kildare
基尔代尔郡

Ireland
爱尔兰

Europe
欧洲

The World
世界

The Universe
宇宙

That was in his writing: and Fleming one night for a cod had written on the opposite page:
这是他写的：弗莱明一天晚上为一条鳕鱼在另一页写道：

Stephen Dedalus is my name,
斯蒂芬·迪达勒斯是我的名字

Ireland is my nation.
爱尔兰是我的国家。

Clongowes is my dwellingplace
克朗戈斯是我的住所

And heaven my expectation.
天堂是我的期望。

He read the verses backwards but then they were not poetry. Then he read the flyleaf from the bottom to the top till he came to his own name. That was he: and he read down the page again. What was after the universe?
他倒着读这些诗句，但它们不是诗。然后他从下到上读了扉页，直到找到了自己的名字。那就是他：他又读了一遍这一页。宇宙之后是什么？

Nothing. But was there anything round the universe to show where it stopped before the nothing place began?
没有什么。但是，宇宙周围是否有任何东西可以表明，在虚无之地开始之前，它就停在了哪里呢？

It could not be a wall; but there could be a thin thin line there all round everything. It was very big to think about everything and everywhere. Only God could do that. He tried to think what a big thought that must be; but he could only think of God. God was God’s name just as his name was Stephen. DIEU was the French for God and that was God’s name too; and when anyone prayed to God and said DIEU then God knew at once that it was a French person that was praying. But, though there were different names for God in all the different languages in the world and God understood what all the people who prayed said in their different languages, still God remained always the same God and God’s real name was God.
它不可能是一堵墙；它不可能是一堵墙。但一切都可能有一条细细的线。考虑一切、无处不在是非常大的。只有上帝才能做到这一点。他试着想一想，这一定是一个多么伟大的想法。但他只能想到上帝。上帝是上帝的名字，正如他的名字是司提反一样。 DIEU 在法语中是“上帝”的意思，这也是上帝的名字；当有人向上帝祈祷并说“DIEU”时，上帝立刻就知道这是一个法国人在祈祷。但是，尽管世界上不同的语言对上帝有不同的名字，并且上帝理解所有祈祷的人用不同的语言所说的话，但上帝仍然始终是同一位上帝，上帝的真名是上帝。

It made him very tired to think that way. It made him feel his head very big. He turned over the flyleaf and looked wearily at the green round earth in the middle of the maroon clouds. He wondered which was right, to be for the green or for the maroon, because Dante had ripped the green velvet back off the brush that was for Parnell one day with her scissors and had told him that Parnell was a bad man. He wondered if they were arguing at home about that. That was called politics. There were two sides in it: Dante was on one side and his father and Mr Casey were on the other side but his mother and uncle Charles were on no side. Every day there was something in the paper about it.
这样想让他很累。这让他感觉自己的头好大。他翻开扉页，疲倦地看着栗色云层中间绿色的圆形大地。他想知道绿色和栗色哪个才是正确的，因为有一天但丁用剪刀把帕内尔的刷子上的绿色天鹅绒扯了下来，并告诉他帕内尔是个坏人。他想知道他们是否在家里为此争论。这就是所谓的政治。它有两面：但丁在一边，他的父亲和凯西先生在另一边，但他的母亲和叔叔查尔斯不在一边。报纸上每天都有关于这件事的报道。

It pained him that he did not know well what politics meant and that he did not know where the universe ended. He felt small and weak. When would he be like the fellows in poetry and rhetoric? They had big voices and big boots and they studied trigonometry. That was very far away. First came the vacation and then the next term and then vacation again and then again another term and then again the vacation. It was like a train going in and out of tunnels and that was like the noise of the boys eating in the refectory when you opened and closed the flaps of the ears. Term, vacation; tunnel, out; noise, stop. How far away it was! It was better to go to bed to sleep. Only prayers in the chapel and then bed. He shivered and yawned. It would be lovely in bed after the sheets got a bit hot. First they were so cold to get into. He shivered to think how cold they were first. But then they got hot and then he could sleep. It was lovely to be tired. He yawned again. Night prayers and then bed: he shivered and wanted to yawn. It would be lovely in a few minutes. He felt a warm glow creeping up from the cold shivering sheets, warmer and warmer till he felt warm all over, ever so warm and yet he shivered a little and still wanted to yawn.
让他痛苦的是，他不太了解政治意味着什么，也不知道宇宙的尽头在哪里。他感到自己渺小而虚弱。什么时候他才能像那些诗词修辞的人一样呢？他们声音很大，靴子很大，而且他们研究三角学。那是非常遥远的事。首先是假期，然后是下一个学期，然后再次假期，然后又是另一个学期，然后又是假期。就像一列进出隧道的火车，就像你打开和关闭耳盖时男孩们在食堂吃饭时发出的噪音。学期、假期；隧道，出去；噪音，停止。那是多么遥远啊！最好还是上床睡觉。只能在教堂祈祷，然后上床睡觉。他浑身发抖，打了个哈欠。床单有点热后躺在床上会很舒服。首先，他们太冷了，无法进入。一想到他们一开始有多冷，他就不寒而栗。但后来它们变热了，然后他就可以睡觉了。累的感觉真好。他又打了个哈欠。夜间祈祷，然后上床睡觉：他浑身发抖，想打哈欠。几分钟后就会很可爱。他感觉到一股温暖的光芒从冰冷的颤抖的床单上爬上来，越来越暖和，直到他感觉浑身都暖和起来，非常暖和，但他还是有点颤抖，还想打哈欠。

The bell rang for night prayers and he filed out of the study hall after the others and down the staircase and along the corridors to the chapel. The corridors were darkly lit and the chapel was darkly lit. Soon all would be dark and sleeping. There was cold night air in the chapel and the marbles were the colour the sea was at night. The sea was cold day and night: but it was colder at night. It was cold and dark under the seawall beside his father’s house. But the kettle would be on the hob to make punch.
夜间祈祷的钟声响起，他跟在其他人后面，鱼贯走出自习室，走下楼梯，沿着走廊来到小教堂。走廊里灯光昏暗，教堂里灯光昏暗。很快，一切都将陷入黑暗并沉睡。教堂里的夜风很冷，大理石的颜色是夜晚大海的颜色。大海白天和晚上都很冷：但晚上更冷。他父亲家旁边的海堤下又冷又黑。但水壶会放在炉灶上用来制作潘趣酒。

The prefect of the chapel prayed above his head and his memory knew the responses:
教堂的负责人在他的头顶上祈祷，他的记忆知道他的回应：

O Lord open our lips
主啊，张开我们的嘴唇

And our mouths shall announce Thy praise.
我们的口将传扬对你的赞美。

Incline unto our aid, O God!
上帝啊，求你帮助我们！

O Lord make haste to help us!
主啊，求你赶快帮助我们！

There was a cold night smell in the chapel. But it was a holy smell. It was not like the smell of the old peasants who knelt at the back of the chapel at Sunday mass. That was a smell of air and rain and turf and corduroy. But they were very holy peasants. They breathed behind him on his neck and sighed as they prayed. They lived in Clane, a fellow said: there were little cottages there and he had seen a woman standing at the half-door of a cottage with a child in her arms as the cars had come past from Sallins. It would be lovely to sleep for one night in that cottage before the fire of smoking turf, in the dark lit by the fire, in the warm dark, breathing the smell of the peasants, air and rain and turf and corduroy. But O, the road there between the trees was dark! You would be lost in the dark. It made him afraid to think of how it was.
礼拜堂里弥漫着寒冷的夜味。但这是一种神圣的气味。这不像周日弥撒时跪在教堂后面的老农民的气味。那是空气、雨水、草皮和灯芯绒的味道。但他们是非常神圣的农民。他们在他身后的脖子上呼吸，一边祈祷一边叹息。他们住在克兰，一个家伙说：那里有一些小小屋，当汽车从萨林斯驶过时，他看到一个女人站在小屋的半门前，怀里抱着一个孩子。在那间小屋里，在冒着烟的草皮火堆前，在火光照亮的黑暗中，在温暖的黑暗中，呼吸着农民的气味、空气、雨水、草皮和灯芯绒的气味，睡一晚，真是太美好了。但是哦，树林之间的路是黑暗的！你会迷失在黑暗中。这让他不敢去想事情是怎样的。

He heard the voice of the prefect of the chapel saying the last prayers. He prayed it too against the dark outside under the trees.
他听到教堂长官做最后祈祷的声音。他也在外面树下的黑暗中祈祷。

VISIT, WE BESEECH THEE, O LORD, THIS HABITATION AND DRIVE AWAY FROM IT ALL THE SNARES OF THE ENEMY. MAY THY HOLY ANGELS DWELL HEREIN TO PRESERVE US IN PEACE AND MAY THY BLESSINGS BE ALWAYS UPON US THROUGH CHRIST OUR LORD. AMEN.
主啊，我们恳求您访问这个住所，并将敌人的所有网罗赶走。愿您的圣天使居住于此，保护我们平安，愿您通过我们的主基督永远祝福我们。阿门。

His fingers trembled as he undressed himself in the dormitory. He told his fingers to hurry up. He had to undress and then kneel and say his own prayers and be in bed before the gas was lowered so that he might not go to hell when he died. He rolled his stockings off and put on his nightshirt quickly and knelt trembling at his bedside and repeated his prayers quickly, fearing that the gas would go down. He felt his shoulders shaking as he murmured:
他在宿舍里脱衣服的时候手指都在颤抖。他吩咐手指快点。他必须脱掉衣服，然后跪下来祈祷，然后在煤气被调低之前上床睡觉，这样他死后就不会下地狱。他脱下长筒袜，迅速穿上睡衣，颤抖着跪在床边，快速地重复着祈祷，生怕气体会熄灭。他感觉自己的肩膀在颤抖，低声说道：

God bless my father and my mother and spare them to me!
愿上帝保佑我的父亲和母亲，饶恕他们吧！

God bless my little brothers and sisters and spare them to me!
愿上帝保佑我的小兄弟姐妹们，饶恕他们吧！

God bless Dante and Uncle Charles and spare them to me!
上帝保佑但丁和查尔斯叔叔，饶了我吧！

He blessed himself and climbed quickly into bed and, tucking the end of the nightshirt under his feet, curled himself together under the cold white sheets, shaking and trembling. But he would not go to hell when he died; and the shaking would stop. A voice bade the boys in the dormitory good night. He peered out for an instant over the coverlet and saw the yellow curtains round and before his bed that shut him off on all sides. The light was lowered quietly.
他为自己祝福，迅速爬上床，把睡衣下摆塞到脚下，蜷缩在冰冷的白色床单下，浑身发抖。但他死后并不会下地狱；震动就会停止。一个声音向宿舍里的男生们道晚安。他隔着被子往外看了一眼，看到床边和床前的黄色窗帘将他与四面八方隔绝开来。灯光悄然降下。

The prefect’s shoes went away. Where? Down the staircase and along the corridors or to his room at the end? He saw the dark. Was it true about the black dog that walked there at night with eyes as big as carriage-lamps? They said it was the ghost of a murderer. A long shiver of fear flowed over his body. He saw the dark entrance hall of the castle. Old servants in old dress were in the ironing-room above the staircase. It was long ago. The old servants were quiet. There was a fire there, but the hall was still dark. A figure came up the staircase from the hall. He wore the white cloak of a marshal; his face was pale and strange; he held his hand pressed to his side. He looked out of strange eyes at the old servants. They looked at him and saw their master’s face and cloak and knew that he had received his death-wound. But only the dark was where they looked: only dark silent air. Their master had received his death-wound on the battlefield of Prague far away over the sea. He was standing on the field; his hand was pressed to his side; his face was pale and strange and he wore the white cloak of a marshal.
知府的鞋子不见了。在哪里？走下楼梯，沿着走廊，还是到尽头他的房间？他看到了黑暗。晚上在那里行走、眼睛像马车灯一样大的黑狗是真的吗？他们说这是杀人犯的鬼魂。一阵恐惧的颤抖传遍了他的全身。他看到了城堡黑暗的门厅。穿着旧衣服的老仆人在楼梯上方的熨烫室里。那是很久以前的事了。老仆人们都安静了。那里着火了，但大厅里仍然一片漆黑。一个人影从大厅的楼梯上走来。他穿着元帅的白色斗篷；他的脸色苍白而奇怪。他把手压在身侧。他用奇怪的眼神看着老仆人。他们看着他，看到了主人的脸和斗篷，知道他受了死伤。但他们所看到的只有黑暗：只有黑暗寂静的空气。他们的主人是在远在大海彼岸的布拉格战场上受了重伤的。他站在场上；他的手被压在身侧；他的脸色苍白而怪异，穿着元帅的白色斗篷。

O how cold and strange it was to think of that! All the dark was cold and strange. There were pale strange faces there, great eyes like carriage-lamps. They were the ghosts of murderers, the figures of marshals who had received their death-wound on battlefields far away over the sea. What did they wish to say that their faces were so strange?
哦，想到这一点是多么寒冷和奇怪啊！一切的黑暗都是冰冷而陌生的。那里有一张张苍白的陌生面孔，一双大眼睛就像马车灯。他们是杀人犯的鬼魂，是远在大洋彼岸战场上受重伤的元帅的身影。他们脸色如此奇怪，到底想说什么？

VISIT, WE BESEECH THEE, O LORD, THIS HABITATION AND DRIVE AWAY FROM IT ALL...
主啊，我们恳求您访问这个住所并远离这一切......

Going home for the holidays! That would be lovely: the fellows had told him. Getting up on the cars in the early wintry morning outside the door of the castle. The cars were rolling on the gravel. Cheers for the rector!
回家过节啦！那就太好了：同事们已经告诉他了。冬日的清晨，在城堡门外爬上车。汽车在碎石路上滚动。为校长加油！

Hurray! Hurray! Hurray!
欢呼！欢呼！欢呼！

The cars drove past the chapel and all caps were raised. They drove merrily along the country roads. The drivers pointed with their whips to Bodenstown. The fellows cheered. They passed the farmhouse of the Jolly Farmer. Cheer after cheer after cheer. Through Clane they drove, cheering and cheered. The peasant women stood at the half-doors, the men stood here and there. The lovely smell there was in the wintry air: the smell of Clane: rain and wintry air and turf smouldering and corduroy.
汽车驶过教堂，所有人都举起了帽子。他们开开心心地沿着乡间小路行驶。司机们用鞭子指向博登斯敦。小伙伴们欢呼起来。他们经过快乐农夫的农舍。欢呼接着欢呼。他们开车穿过克莱恩，欢呼雀跃。农妇们站在半门前，男人们则东站西站。寒冷的空气中弥漫着可爱的气味：克莱恩的气味：雨水、寒冷的空气、阴燃的草皮和灯芯绒的味道。

The train was full of fellows: a long long chocolate train with cream facings. The guards went to and fro opening, closing, locking, unlocking the doors. They were men in dark blue and silver; they had silvery whistles and their keys made a quick music: click, click: click, click.
火车上挤满了人：一列长长的巧克力火车，上面涂着奶油色。警卫们来来回回地打开、关上、锁上、打开门。他们是穿着深蓝色和银色衣服的男人。他们吹着银色的口哨，琴键发出急促的音乐：咔嗒，咔嗒：咔嗒，咔嗒。

And the train raced on over the flat lands and past the Hill of Allen. The telegraph poles were passing, passing. The train went on and on. It knew. There were lanterns in the hall of his father’s house and ropes of green branches. There were holly and ivy round the pierglass and holly and ivy, green and red, twined round the chandeliers. There were red holly and green ivy round the old portraits on the walls. Holly and ivy for him and for Christmas.
火车在平坦的土地上疾驰，经过艾伦山。电线杆不断地经过、经过。火车继续前行。它知道。他父亲家的大厅里挂满了灯笼，还有一串串绿色的树枝。穿窗玻璃周围长满了冬青树和常春藤，枝形吊灯周围也长满了绿色和红色的冬青树和常春藤。墙上的旧肖像周围长满了红色的冬青树和绿色的常春藤。冬青树和常春藤是为他和圣诞节准备的。

Lovely...
迷人的...

All the people. Welcome home, Stephen! Noises of welcome. His mother kissed him. Was that right? His father was a marshal now: higher than a magistrate. Welcome home, Stephen!
所有人。欢迎回家，斯蒂芬！欢迎的声音。他的母亲吻了他。是这样吗？他的父亲现在是一名元帅：比地方法官还要高。欢迎回家，斯蒂芬！

Noises...
噪音...

There was a noise of curtain-rings running back along the rods, of water being splashed in the basins. There was a noise of rising and dressing and washing in the dormitory: a noise of clapping of hands as the prefect went up and down telling the fellows to look sharp. A pale sunlight showed the yellow curtains drawn back, the tossed beds. His bed was very hot and his face and body were very hot.
窗帘环沿着杆子向后转动，水盆里溅起水花，发出一阵声音。宿舍里传来起床、穿衣、洗漱的声音：级长上下吩咐伙计们要保持警惕时，响起了拍手声。苍白的阳光照耀着拉开的黄色窗帘和翻倒的床铺。他的床很热，他的脸和身体都很热。

He got up and sat on the side of his bed. He was weak. He tried to pull on his stocking. It had a horrid rough feel. The sunlight was queer and cold.
他起身坐在床边。他很虚弱。他试图穿上袜子。有一种可怕的粗糙感。阳光古怪而寒冷。

Fleming said:
弗莱明说：

—Are you not well?
——你身体不舒服吗？

He did not know; and Fleming said:
他不知道;弗莱明说：

—Get back into bed. I’ll tell McGlade you’re not well.
——回到床上去。我会告诉麦格莱德你身体不太好。

—He’s sick.
-他病了。

—Who is?
-谁是？

—Tell McGlade.
——告诉麦格莱德。

—Get back into bed.
——回到床上去。

—Is he sick?
——他生病了吗？

A fellow held his arms while he loosened the stocking clinging to his foot and climbed back into the hot bed.
一个人抓住了他的手臂，他松开了粘在脚上的袜子，爬回了热床上。

He crouched down between the sheets, glad of their tepid glow. He heard the fellows talk among themselves about him as they dressed for mass. It was a mean thing to do, to shoulder him into the square ditch, they were saying.
他蹲在床单之间，很高兴看到它们温热的光芒。他听到人们在穿好衣服去参加弥撒时互相谈论他。他们说，把他推到方沟里是一件卑鄙的事。

Then their voices ceased; they had gone. A voice at his bed said:
然后他们的声音停止了。他们已经走了。床上传来一个声音：

—Dedalus, don’t spy on us, sure you won’t?
——德达勒斯，不要监视我们，你确定不会吗？

Wells’s face was there. He looked at it and saw that Wells was afraid.
威尔斯的脸就在那里。他一看，发现威尔斯很害怕。

—I didn’t mean to. Sure you won’t?
——我不是故意的。你确定不会吗？

His father had told him, whatever he did, never to peach on a fellow. He shook his head and answered no and felt glad.
他父亲告诉他，无论他做什么，都不要觊觎别人。他摇摇头，回答说“不”，并感到很高兴。

Wells said:
威尔斯说：

—I didn’t mean to, honour bright. It was only for cod. I’m sorry.
——我不是故意的，荣耀光明。这只是为了鳕鱼。对不起。

The face and the voice went away. Sorry because he was afraid. Afraid that it was some disease. Canker was a disease of plants and cancer one of animals: or another different. That was a long time ago then out on the playgrounds in the evening light, creeping from point to point on the fringe of his line, a heavy bird flying low through the grey light. Leicester Abbey lit up. Wolsey died there. The abbots buried him themselves.
脸和声音都消失了。抱歉，因为他害怕了。生怕是得了什么病。溃疡病是一种植物疾病，而癌症是一种动物疾病：或者是另一种不同。那是很久以前的事了，当时在傍晚的灯光下，在操场上，一只沉重的鸟在灰色的光线中低飞，在他的路线边缘爬行。莱斯特修道院亮了起来。沃尔西死在那里。方丈们亲自埋葬了他。

It was not Wells’s face, it was the prefect’s. He was not foxing. No, no: he was sick really. He was not foxing. And he felt the prefect’s hand on his forehead; and he felt his forehead warm and damp against the prefect’s cold damp hand. That was the way a rat felt, slimy and damp and cold. Every rat had two eyes to look out of. Sleek slimy coats, little little feet tucked up to jump, black slimy eyes to look out of. They could understand how to jump. But the minds of rats could not understand trigonometry. When they were dead they lay on their sides. Their coats dried then. They were only dead things.
那不是威尔斯的脸，而是州长的脸。他并不是在开玩笑。不，不：他真的病了。他并不是在开玩笑。他感觉到知府的手放在了他的额头上；他感觉到自己的额头抵住了知府冰冷潮湿的手，又热又湿。这就是老鼠的感觉，又粘又湿又冷。每只老鼠都有两只眼睛可以向外看。光滑的粘糊糊的外套，翘起的小脚丫可以跳跃，黑色粘糊糊的眼睛可以向外看。他们能够理解如何跳跃。但老鼠的头脑无法理解三角学。当他们死后，他们侧卧着。然后他们的外套就干了。他们只是死物。

The prefect was there again and it was his voice that was saying that he was to get up, that Father Minister had said he was to get up and dress and go to the infirmary. And while he was dressing himself as quickly as he could the prefect said:
省长又出现了，是他的声音在说他要起床，部长神父说他要起床穿好衣服，然后去医务室。当他尽快穿好衣服时，知府说道：

—We must pack off to Brother Michael because we have the collywobbles!
——我们必须去找迈克尔弟兄了，因为我们肚子疼！

He was very decent to say that. That was all to make him laugh. But he could not laugh because his cheeks and lips were all shivery: and then the prefect had to laugh by himself.
他说这话的时候非常有礼貌。这一切都是为了让他发笑。但他笑不出来，因为他的脸颊和嘴唇都在颤抖：然后太守只好自己笑了。

The prefect cried:
太守喊道：

—Quick march! Hayfoot! Strawfoot!
——快进军！干草脚！稻草足！

They went together down the staircase and along the corridor and past the bath. As he passed the door he remembered with a vague fear the warm turf-coloured bogwater, the warm moist air, the noise of plunges, the smell of the towels, like medicine.
他们一起走下楼梯，沿着走廊，经过浴室。当他经过门口时，他怀着模糊的恐惧想起了温暖的草皮色的沼泽水、温暖潮湿的空气、跳水的声音、毛巾的味道，就像药水一样。

Brother Michael was standing at the door of the infirmary and from the door of the dark cabinet on his right came a smell like medicine. That came from the bottles on the shelves. The prefect spoke to Brother Michael and Brother Michael answered and called the prefect sir. He had reddish hair mixed with grey and a queer look. It was queer that he would always be a brother. It was queer too that you could not call him sir because he was a brother and had a different kind of look. Was he not holy enough or why could he not catch up on the others?
迈克尔修士站在医务室门口，从他右边黑暗的柜子门里传来一股药味。那是来自架子上的瓶子。级长与迈克尔弟兄通话，迈克尔弟兄接听并称级长为先生。他有一头混着灰色头发的红发，看上去很奇怪。奇怪的是他永远都是兄弟。奇怪的是，你不能称他为先生，因为他是兄弟，而且长相不同。是他不够圣洁，还是为什么追不上其他人？

There were two beds in the room and in one bed there was a fellow: and when they went in he called out:
房间里有两张床，一张床上有一个人：当他们进去时，他喊道：

—Hello! It’s young Dedalus! What’s up?
-你好！这是年轻的德达勒斯！这是怎么回事？

—The sky is up, Brother Michael said.
——天空已升起，迈克尔弟兄说。

He was a fellow out of the third of grammar and, while Stephen was undressing, he asked Brother Michael to bring him a round of buttered toast.
他是文法三年级的学生，当斯蒂芬脱衣服时，他请迈克尔修士给他送来一片黄油吐司。

—Ah, do! he said.
——啊，做吧！他说。

—Butter you up! said Brother Michael. You’ll get your walking papers in the morning when the doctor comes.
——给你涂黄油！迈克尔弟兄说。早上医生来时，您会收到步行纸。

—Will I? the fellow said. I’m not well yet.
——我会吗？那家伙说道。我还没好。

Brother Michael repeated:
迈克尔弟兄重复道：

—You’ll get your walking papers. I tell you.
——你会得到你的行走证件。我告诉你。

He bent down to rake the fire. He had a long back like the long back of a tramhorse. He shook the poker gravely and nodded his head at the fellow out of third of grammar.
他弯下腰​​去扫火。他的背很长，就像电车马的背一样长。他严肃地摇晃着拨火棍，对这个语法三年级的家伙点了点头。

Then Brother Michael went away and after a while the fellow out of third of grammar turned in towards the wall and fell asleep.
然后迈克尔修士就走了，过了一会儿，那个三年级的家伙就转向墙睡着了。

That was the infirmary. He was sick then. Had they written home to tell his mother and father? But it would be quicker for one of the priests to go himself to tell them. Or he would write a letter for the priest to bring.
那是医务室。那时他病了。他们写信回家告诉他的父母了吗？但由一位神父亲自去告诉他们会更快。或者他会写一封信让牧师带来。

Dear Mother,
亲爱的妈妈，


I am sick. I want to go home. Please come and take me home. I am in the infirmary.
我病了。我想回家。请过来带我回家。我在医务室。


Your fond son,
你最爱的儿子，

Stephen
斯蒂芬

How far away they were! There was cold sunlight outside the window. He wondered if he would die. You could die just the same on a sunny day. He might die before his mother came. Then he would have a dead mass in the chapel like the way the fellows had told him it was when Little had died. All the fellows would be at the mass, dressed in black, all with sad faces. Wells too would be there but no fellow would look at him. The rector would be there in a cope of black and gold and there would be tall yellow candles on the altar and round the catafalque. And they would carry the coffin out of the chapel slowly and he would be buried in the little graveyard of the community off the main avenue of limes. And Wells would be sorry then for what he had done. And the bell would toll slowly.
他们离我们有多远啊！窗外有冷冷的阳光。他想知道自己是否会死。在阳光明媚的日子里你也可能会死。他可能会在他母亲到来之前死去。然后他会在教堂里举行一场死者弥撒，就像其他人告诉他的那样，利特尔去世时就是这样。所有参加弥撒的人都穿着黑衣，脸上都是悲伤的表情。威尔斯也会在那里，但没有人会看他。教区长会穿着黑色和金色的法袍出现在那里，祭坛上和教堂周围都会有高高的黄色蜡烛。他们会慢慢地将棺材抬出教堂，然后将他埋葬在石灰主干道旁社区的小墓地里。威尔斯将会为他所做的事感到抱歉。钟声会慢慢敲响。

He could hear the tolling. He said over to himself the song that Brigid had taught him.
他能听到钟声。他自言自语地说了布里吉德教他的那首歌。

Dingdong! The castle bell!
叮咚！城堡的钟声！

Farewell, my mother!
再见，我的妈妈！

Bury me in the old churchyard
把我埋在古老的墓地里

Beside my eldest brother.
在我大哥旁边。

My coffin shall be black,
我的棺材将是黑色的，

Six angels at my back,
我背后有六位天使，

Two to sing and two to pray
两个人唱歌，两个人祈祷

And two to carry my soul away.
还有两个可以带走我的灵魂。

How beautiful and sad that was! How beautiful the words were where they said BURY ME IN THE OLD CHURCHYARD! A tremor passed over his body. How sad and how beautiful! He wanted to cry quietly but not for himself: for the words, so beautiful and sad, like music. The bell! The bell! Farewell! O farewell!
那是多么美丽又悲伤啊！他们所说的“把我埋在旧教堂里”这句话是多么美丽啊！他的身体一阵颤抖。多么悲伤又多么美丽！他想静静地哭泣，但不是为了自己：为了那些话语，如此美丽而悲伤，就像音乐一样。钟声！钟声！告别！噢，再见！

The cold sunlight was weaker and Brother Michael was standing at his bedside with a bowl of beef-tea. He was glad for his mouth was hot and dry. He could hear them playing in the playgrounds. And the day was going on in the college just as if he were there.
寒冷的阳光变得微弱了，迈克尔弟兄端着一碗牛肉茶站在床边。他很高兴自己的嘴又热又干。他能听到他们在操场上玩耍。大学里的日子就这样过去了，就好像他就在那里一样。

Then Brother Michael was going away and the fellow out of the third of grammar told him to be sure and come back and tell him all the news in the paper. He told Stephen that his name was Athy and that his father kept a lot of racehorses that were spiffing jumpers and that his father would give a good tip to Brother Michael any time he wanted it because Brother Michael was very decent and always told him the news out of the paper they got every day up in the castle. There was every kind of news in the paper: accidents, shipwrecks, sports, and politics.
然后迈克尔修士要走了，文法三年级的那个同学告诉他一定要回来，告诉他报纸上的所有新闻。他告诉史蒂芬，他的名字叫艾西，他的父亲养了很多赛马，这些赛马都是漂亮的跳马，他的父亲会在任何时候给迈克尔兄弟一个很好的小费，因为迈克尔兄弟非常正派，总是告诉他这个消息他们每天在城堡里取报纸。报纸上有各种各样的新闻：事故、沉船、体育和政治。

—Now it is all about politics in the papers, he said. Do your people talk about that too?
——现在报纸上都是关于政治的，他说。你们的人也谈论这个吗？

—Yes, Stephen said.
——是的，斯蒂芬说。

—Mine too, he said.
——我的也是，他说。

Then he thought for a moment and said:
然后他想了想，说道：

—You have a queer name, Dedalus, and I have a queer name too, Athy. My name is the name of a town. Your name is like Latin.
——你有一个奇怪的名字，Dedalus，我也有一个奇怪的名字，Athy。我的名字是一个小镇的名字。你的名字就像拉丁文。

Then he asked:
然后他问道：

—Are you good at riddles?
——你擅长猜谜语吗？

Stephen answered:
斯蒂芬回答：

—Not very good.
-不太好。

Then he said:
然后他说：

—Can you answer me this one? Why is the county of Kildare like the leg of a fellow’s breeches?
——你能回答我这个问题吗？为什么基尔代尔郡就像一个家伙的马裤腿？

Stephen thought what could be the answer and then said:
斯蒂芬想了想答案是什么，然后说道：

—I give it up.
——我放弃了。

—Because there is a thigh in it, he said. Do you see the joke? Athy is the town in the county Kildare and a thigh is the other thigh.
——因为里面有一条大腿，他说。你看到笑话了吗？ Athy 是基尔代尔郡的城镇，一条大腿是另一条大腿。

—Oh, I see, Stephen said.
——哦，我明白了，史蒂芬说。

—That’s an old riddle, he said.
——这是一个古老的谜语，他说。

After a moment he said:
过了一会儿他说道：

—I say!
-我说！

—What? asked Stephen.
-什么？史蒂芬问道。

—You know, he said, you can ask that riddle another way.
——你知道，他说，你可以用另一种方式来问这个谜语。

—Can you? said Stephen.
-你可以吗？斯蒂芬说。

—The same riddle, he said. Do you know the other way to ask it?
——同样的谜语，他说。你知道另一种提问方式吗？

—No, said Stephen.
——不，史蒂芬说。

—Can you not think of the other way? he said.
——你就不能想点别的办法吗？他说。

He looked at Stephen over the bedclothes as he spoke. Then he lay back on the pillow and said:
说话时，他越过床单看着斯蒂芬。然后他又躺回枕头上说道：

—There is another way but I won’t tell you what it is.
——还有另一种方法，但我不会告诉你它是什么。

Why did he not tell it? His father, who kept the racehorses, must be a magistrate too like Saurin’s father and Nasty Roche’s father. He thought of his own father, of how he sang songs while his mother played and of how he always gave him a shilling when he asked for sixpence and he felt sorry for him that he was not a magistrate like the other boys’ fathers. Then why was he sent to that place with them? But his father had told him that he would be no stranger there because his granduncle had presented an address to the liberator there fifty years before. You could know the people of that time by their old dress. It seemed to him a solemn time: and he wondered if that was the time when the fellows in Clongowes wore blue coats with brass buttons and yellow waistcoats and caps of rabbitskin and drank beer like grown-up people and kept greyhounds of their own to course the hares with.
他为什么不告诉呢？他养赛马的父亲肯定也是一名地方法官，就像索林的父亲和讨厌的罗什的父亲一样。他想起了自己的父亲，想起了他在母亲演奏时唱歌的样子，想起了当他要六便士时，他总是给他一先令，他为他感到难过，因为他不像其他男孩的父亲那样是一名地方法官。那他为什么会和他们一起被送到那个地方呢？但他的父亲告诉他，他对那里并不陌生，因为他的叔公五十年前曾在那里向解放者发表过讲话。从他们的旧衣着就能看出那个时代的人。在他看来，这是一个庄严的时刻：他想知道克朗戈斯的人们是否在那个时候穿着带黄铜纽扣的蓝色外套和黄色背心，戴着兔皮帽子，像成年人一样喝着啤酒，养着自己的灵缇犬。野兔与。

He looked at the window and saw that the daylight had grown weaker. There would be cloudy grey light over the playgrounds. There was no noise on the playgrounds. The class must be doing the themes or perhaps Father Arnall was reading out of the book.
他看向窗外，发现日光已经暗淡了一些。操场上空会出现阴沉的灰色光线。操场上没有任何噪音。班级一定正在做主题，或者也许阿纳尔神父正在读书。

It was queer that they had not given him any medicine. Perhaps Brother Michael would bring it back when he came. They said you got stinking stuff to drink when you were in the infirmary. But he felt better now than before. It would be nice getting better slowly. You could get a book then. There was a book in the library about Holland. There were lovely foreign names in it and pictures of strange looking cities and ships. It made you feel so happy.
奇怪的是他们没有给他任何药物。也许迈克尔弟兄来的时候会把它带回来。他们说你在医务室的时候喝的东西很臭。但他现在感觉比以前好多了。能慢慢好起来就好了。那时你可以买一本书。图书馆里有一本关于荷兰的书。里面有可爱的外国名字和奇怪的城市和船只的图片。这让你感觉很幸福。

How pale the light was at the window! But that was nice. The fire rose and fell on the wall. It was like waves. Someone had put coal on and he heard voices. They were talking. It was the noise of the waves. Or the waves were talking among themselves as they rose and fell.
窗外的光线多么苍白啊！但那很好。火在墙上升起又落下。就像波浪一样。有人放了煤，他听到了声音。他们正在说话。那是海浪的声音。或者，海浪在起伏时互相交谈。

He saw the sea of waves, long dark waves rising and falling, dark under the moonless night. A tiny light twinkled at the pierhead where the ship was entering: and he saw a multitude of people gathered by the waters’ edge to see the ship that was entering their harbour. A tall man stood on the deck, looking out towards the flat dark land: and by the light at the pierhead he saw his face, the sorrowful face of Brother Michael.
他看到波涛汹涌的大海，长长的暗浪起起伏伏，在无月的夜色下漆黑一片。船驶入的码头处闪烁着微弱的灯光：他看到许多人聚集在水边，观看驶入港口的船。一个高个子男人站在甲板上，望着平坦黑暗的土地：借着码头的灯光，他看到了他的脸，迈克尔修士悲伤的脸。

He saw him lift his hand towards the people and heard him say in a loud voice of sorrow over the waters:
他看到他向人们举起手，听到他在水面上大声悲伤地说：

—He is dead. We saw him lying upon the catafalque. A wail of sorrow went up from the people.
-他死了。我们看到他躺在马车上。人群中响起悲痛的哀号。

—Parnell! Parnell! He is dead!
——帕内尔！帕内尔！他死了！

They fell upon their knees, moaning in sorrow.
他们跪倒在地，悲伤地呻吟着。

And he saw Dante in a maroon velvet dress and with a green velvet mantle hanging from her shoulders walking proudly and silently past the people who knelt by the water’s edge.
他看到但丁穿着栗色天鹅绒连衣裙，肩上挂着绿色天鹅绒斗篷，骄傲而安静地走过跪在水边的人们身边。

*****

A great fire, banked high and red, flamed in the grate and under the ivy-twined branches of the chandelier the Christmas table was spread. They had come home a little late and still dinner was not ready: but it would be ready in a jiffy his mother had said. They were waiting for the door to open and for the servants to come in, holding the big dishes covered with their heavy metal covers.
壁炉里熊熊燃烧，火势高高，呈红色，在常春藤缠绕的枝形吊灯下，摆满了圣诞餐桌。他们回家有点晚了，晚餐还没有准备好：但他母亲说很快就会准备好。他们正在等待门打开，等待仆人进来，手里拿着盖着厚重金属盖的大盘子。

All were waiting: uncle Charles, who sat far away in the shadow of the window, Dante and Mr Casey, who sat in the easy-chairs at either side of the hearth, Stephen, seated on a chair between them, his feet resting on the toasted boss. Mr Dedalus looked at himself in the pierglass above the mantelpiece, waxed out his moustache ends and then, parting his coat-tails, stood with his back to the glowing fire: and still from time to time he withdrew a hand from his coat-tail to wax out one of his moustache ends. Mr Casey leaned his head to one side and, smiling, tapped the gland of his neck with his fingers. And Stephen smiled too for he knew now that it was not true that Mr Casey had a purse of silver in his throat. He smiled to think how the silvery noise which Mr Casey used to make had deceived him. And when he had tried to open Mr Casey’s hand to see if the purse of silver was hidden there he had seen that the fingers could not be straightened out: and Mr Casey had told him that he had got those three cramped fingers making a birthday present for Queen Victoria. Mr Casey tapped the gland of his neck and smiled at Stephen with sleepy eyes: and Mr Dedalus said to him:
所有人都在等待：查尔斯叔叔，坐在远处的窗户阴影里；但丁和凯西先生，坐在壁炉两边的安乐椅上；斯蒂芬，坐在他们之间的一张椅子上，双脚搁在上面。敬酒的老板。迪达勒斯先生在壁炉架上方的穿衣镜里看着自己，给胡子末端打了蜡，然后分开他的上衣下摆，背对着熊熊的炉火站着：他时不时地把手从上衣下摆上收回来。给他的一根小胡子末端打蜡。凯西先生把头偏向一侧，微笑着用手指敲击着脖子上的腺体。斯蒂芬也笑了，因为他现在知道凯西先生喉咙里挂着一袋银子并不是真的。他微笑着想到凯西先生过去发出的银色噪音是如何欺骗了他的。当他试图打开凯西先生的手，看看银钱包是否藏在那里时，他发现手指无法伸直：凯西先生告诉他，他已经用那三个抽筋的手指制作了一份生日礼物为了维多利亚女王。凯西先生拍了拍脖子上的腺体，用睡眼惺忪的眼神对斯蒂芬微笑：德达勒斯先生对他说：

—Yes. Well now, that’s all right. O, we had a good walk, hadn’t we, John? Yes... I wonder if there’s any likelihood of dinner this evening. Yes... O, well now, we got a good breath of ozone round the Head today. Ay, bedad.
-是的。现在好了，没关系。噢，我们散步得很开心，不是吗，约翰？是的……我想知道今晚是否有可能共进晚餐。是的...哦，好吧，今天我们在头部周围呼吸到了臭氧的气息。哎呀，该死的。

He turned to Dante and said:
他转向但丁说道：

—You didn’t stir out at all, Mrs Riordan?
——赖尔丹女士，你根本没有动静吗？

Dante frowned and said shortly:
但丁皱起眉头，简短地说道：

—No.
-不。

Mr Dedalus dropped his coat-tails and went over to the sideboard. He brought forth a great stone jar of whisky from the locker and filled the decanter slowly, bending now and then to see how much he had poured in. Then replacing the jar in the locker he poured a little of the whisky into two glasses, added a little water and came back with them to the fireplace.
迪达勒斯先生脱下燕尾服，走到餐具柜前。他从储物柜里拿出一个大石罐威士忌，慢慢地装满醒酒器，时不时弯下腰看看倒了多少。然后把罐子放回储物柜里，他把一点威士忌倒进两个玻璃杯里，补充道。一点水，然后和他们一起回到壁炉旁。

—A thimbleful, John, he said, just to whet your appetite.
——顶针一点，约翰，他说，只是为了刺激你的胃口。

Mr Casey took the glass, drank, and placed it near him on the mantelpiece. Then he said:
凯西先生接过杯子，喝了一口，然后把它放在靠近他的壁炉架上。然后他说：

—Well, I can’t help thinking of our friend Christopher manufacturing...
——嗯，我不禁想起我们的朋友克里斯托弗制造的……

He broke into a fit of laughter and coughing and added:
他突然大笑起来，咳嗽起来，补充道：

—...manufacturing that champagne for those fellows.
——……为那些家伙制造香槟。

Mr Dedalus laughed loudly.
迪达勒斯先生放声大笑。

—Is it Christy? he said. There’s more cunning in one of those warts on his bald head than in a pack of jack foxes.
——是克里斯蒂吗？他说。他光头上的一个疣比一群狐狸还要狡猾。

He inclined his head, closed his eyes, and, licking his lips profusely, began to speak with the voice of the hotel keeper.
他低下头，闭上眼睛，用力舔着嘴唇，开始用旅馆老板的声音说话。

—And he has such a soft mouth when he’s speaking to you, don’t you know. He’s very moist and watery about the dewlaps, God bless him.
——而且他和你说话的时候嘴巴很温柔，你不知道吗？他的赘肉非常湿润，水汪汪的，上帝保佑他。

Mr Casey was still struggling through his fit of coughing and laughter. Stephen, seeing and hearing the hotel keeper through his father’s face and voice, laughed.
凯西先生仍在咳嗽和大笑中挣扎。斯蒂芬通过父亲的脸和声音看到并听到了旅馆老板的声音，笑了。

Mr Dedalus put up his eyeglass and, staring down at him, said quietly and kindly:
迪达勒斯先生举起眼镜，居高临下地看着他，平静而友善地说道：

—What are you laughing at, you little puppy, you?
——你这个小小狗，在笑什么？

The servants entered and placed the dishes on the table. Mrs Dedalus followed and the places were arranged.
仆人进来，把菜放到了桌子上。迪达勒斯夫人跟在后面，安排了位置。

—Sit over, she said.
——坐过去吧，她说。

Mr Dedalus went to the end of the table and said:
迪达勒斯先生走到桌子的一端说道：

—Now, Mrs Riordan, sit over. John, sit you down, my hearty.
——现在，赖尔登夫人，请坐。约翰，请坐下，亲爱的。

He looked round to where uncle Charles sat and said:
他环顾查尔斯叔叔坐的地方说道：

—Now then, sir, there’s a bird here waiting for you.
——那么，先生，这里有一只鸟在等你。

When all had taken their seats he laid his hand on the cover and then said quickly, withdrawing it:
当所有人都入座后，他将手放在封面上，然后迅速说道，然后将其收回：

—Now, Stephen.
——现在，斯蒂芬。

Stephen stood up in his place to say the grace before meals:
斯蒂芬站在他的位置上做饭前的恩典：

Bless us, O Lord, and these Thy gifts which through Thy bounty we are about to receive through Christ our Lord. Amen.
主啊，请保佑我们，并通过您的慷慨，我们将通过我们的主基督接受这些您的礼物。阿门。

All blessed themselves and Mr Dedalus with a sigh of pleasure lifted from the dish the heavy cover pearled around the edge with glistening drops.
大家都为自己和迪达勒斯先生祝福，高兴地叹了口气，从盘子里抬起了厚重的盖子，边缘上滴着闪闪发光的水珠。

Stephen looked at the plump turkey which had lain, trussed and skewered, on the kitchen table. He knew that his father had paid a guinea for it in Dunn’s of D’Olier Street and that the man had prodded it often at the breastbone to show how good it was: and he remembered the man’s voice when he had said:
史蒂芬看着那只肥硕的火鸡，它被捆起来、串起来放在厨房的桌子上。他知道他的父亲在奥利尔街的邓恩店里花了一个几尼买了它，而且那个人经常戳它的胸骨以显示它有多好：他记得那个人的声音，当时他说：

—Take that one, sir. That’s the real Ally Daly.
——拿着那个，先生。这才是真正的艾丽·戴利。

Why did Mr Barrett in Clongowes call his pandybat a turkey? But Clongowes was far away: and the warm heavy smell of turkey and ham and celery rose from the plates and dishes and the great fire was banked high and red in the grate and the green ivy and red holly made you feel so happy and when dinner was ended the big plum pudding would be carried in, studded with peeled almonds and sprigs of holly, with bluish fire running around it and a little green flag flying from the top.
为什么克朗戈斯的巴雷特先生称他的pandybat为火鸡？但克朗戈斯在很远的地方：火鸡、火腿和芹菜的温暖浓烈气味从盘子和盘子里升起，壁炉里的大火高高地燃着，红色的火炉，绿色的常春藤和红色的冬青让你感到如此幸福，当晚餐时结束后，大李子布丁将被运进来，布丁上镶嵌着去皮的杏仁和冬青小枝，周围有蓝色的火焰，顶部飘扬着一面小绿色的旗帜。

It was his first Christmas dinner and he thought of his little brothers and sisters who were waiting in the nursery, as he had often waited, till the pudding came. The deep low collar and the Eton jacket made him feel queer and oldish: and that morning when his mother had brought him down to the parlour, dressed for mass, his father had cried. That was because he was thinking of his own father. And uncle Charles had said so too.
这是他第一次吃圣诞晚餐，他想起了他的弟弟妹妹们，他们正在托儿所里等待，就像他经常等待的那样，直到布丁上桌。深低领和伊顿公学夹克让他感觉怪异和老气：那天早上，当他母亲带他穿好衣服去客厅时，他父亲哭了。那是因为他想到了自己的父亲。查尔斯叔叔也这么说过。

Mr Dedalus covered the dish and began to eat hungrily. Then he said:
迪达勒斯先生盖上盘子，开始狼吞虎咽地吃起来。然后他说：

—Poor old Christy, he’s nearly lopsided now with roguery.
——可怜的老克里斯蒂，他现在几乎因为流氓行为而失控了。

—Simon, said Mrs Dedalus, you haven’t given Mrs Riordan any sauce.
——西蒙，迪达勒斯夫人说，你还没有给赖尔登夫人任何酱汁。

Mr Dedalus seized the sauceboat.
迪达勒斯先生抓住了平底锅。

—Haven’t I? he cried. Mrs Riordan, pity the poor blind. Dante covered her plate with her hands and said:
——我不是吗？他哭了。赖尔登夫人，可怜那些可怜的盲人吧。但丁用手盖住盘子，说道：

—No, thanks.
-不，谢谢。

Mr Dedalus turned to uncle Charles.
迪达勒斯先生转向查尔斯叔叔。

—How are you off, sir?
——你过得怎么样，先生？

—Right as the mail, Simon.
——就像邮件一样，西蒙。

—You, John?
——你，约翰？

—I’m all right. Go on yourself.
-我很好。你自己继续吧

—Mary? Here, Stephen, here’s something to make your hair curl.
-玛丽？斯蒂芬，这里有一些可以让你的头发卷曲的东西。

He poured sauce freely over Stephen’s plate and set the boat again on the table. Then he asked uncle Charles was it tender. Uncle Charles could not speak because his mouth was full; but he nodded that it was.
他把酱汁倒在斯蒂芬的盘子上，然后把船重新放在桌子上。然后他问查尔斯叔叔，它嫩吗？查尔斯叔叔无法说话，因为他的嘴里塞满了东西。但他点头表示确实如此。

—That was a good answer our friend made to the canon. What? said Mr Dedalus.
——这是我们的朋友对经典做出的一个很好的回答。什么？迪达勒斯先生说。

—I didn’t think he had that much in him, said Mr Casey.
——我不认为他有那么多的才华，凯西先生说。

—I’LL PAY YOUR DUES, FATHER, WHEN YOU CEASE TURNING THE HOUSE OF GOD INTO A POLLING-BOOTH.
——天父，当你不再把上帝的殿变成投票站时，我会偿还你的会费。

—A nice answer, said Dante, for any man calling himself a catholic to give to his priest.
——但丁说，对于任何自称天主教徒的人来说，这是一个很好的答案。

—They have only themselves to blame, said Mr Dedalus suavely. If they took a fool’s advice they would confine their attention to religion.
——他们只能怪自己，迪达勒斯先生温和地说。如果他们接受了傻瓜的建议，他们就会把注意力集中在宗教上。

—It is religion, Dante said. They are doing their duty in warning the people.
——这是宗教，但丁说。他们正在尽自己的职责，警告人们。

—We go to the house of God, Mr Casey said, in all humility to pray to our Maker and not to hear election addresses.
——凯西先生说，我们来到上帝之家，怀着谦卑的心情向我们的创造者祈祷，而不是聆听选举演讲。

—It is religion, Dante said again. They are right. They must direct their flocks.
——这是宗教，但丁又说道。他们是对的。他们必须指挥他们的羊群。

—And preach politics from the altar, is it? asked Mr Dedalus.
——然后在祭坛上宣扬政治，是吗？迪达勒斯先生问道。

—Certainly, said Dante. It is a question of public morality. A priest would not be a priest if he did not tell his flock what is right and what is wrong.
——当然，但丁说。这是一个公共道德问题。如果牧师不告诉他的羊群什么是对的，什么是错的，那么他就不是一个牧师。

Mrs Dedalus laid down her knife and fork, saying:
迪达勒斯夫人放下刀叉，说道：

—For pity sake and for pity sake let us have no political discussion on this day of all days in the year.
——为了怜悯，为了怜悯，让我们在一年中的这一天不要进行政治讨论。

—Quite right, ma’am, said uncle Charles. Now, Simon, that’s quite enough now. Not another word now.
——完全正确，女士，查尔斯叔叔说。现在，西蒙，现在已经足够了。现在不再多说。

—Yes, yes, said Mr Dedalus quickly.
——是的，是的，迪达勒斯先生很快说道。

He uncovered the dish boldly and said:
他大胆地揭开盘子，说道：

—Now then, who’s for more turkey?
——那么，谁想要更多的火鸡呢？

Nobody answered. Dante said:
没有人回答。但丁说：

—Nice language for any catholic to use!
——任何天主教徒都可以使用的好语言！

—Mrs Riordan, I appeal to you, said Mrs Dedalus, to let the matter drop now.
——赖尔登夫人，我恳求您，迪达勒斯夫人说，现在就别再提这件事了。

Dante turned on her and said:
但丁转向她说道：

—And am I to sit here and listen to the pastors of my church being flouted?
——我难道要坐在这里听我教会的牧师们被蔑视吗？

—Nobody is saying a word against them, said Mr Dedalus, so long as they don’t meddle in politics.
——迪达勒斯先生说，只要他们不干涉政治，就没有人反对他们。

—The bishops and priests of Ireland have spoken, said Dante, and they must be obeyed.
——爱尔兰的主教和神父们已经发话了，但丁说，他们必须服从。

—Let them leave politics alone, said Mr Casey, or the people may leave their church alone.
——让他们别管政治，凯西先生说，否则人们可能会别管他们的教堂。

—You hear? said Dante, turning to Mrs Dedalus.
-你听？但丁转向迪达勒斯夫人说道。

—Mr Casey! Simon! said Mrs Dedalus, let it end now.
——凯西先生！西蒙！迪达勒斯夫人说，现在就结束吧。

—Too bad! Too bad! said uncle Charles.
-太糟糕了！太糟糕了！查尔斯叔叔说。

—What? cried Mr Dedalus. Were we to desert him at the bidding of the English people?
-什么？迪达勒斯先生喊道。我们会在英国人民的命令下抛弃他吗？

—He was no longer worthy to lead, said Dante. He was a public sinner.
——他不再值得领导，但丁说。他是一个公开的罪人。

—We are all sinners and black sinners, said Mr Casey coldly.
——我们都是罪人，都是黑人罪人，凯西先生冷冷地说。

—WOE BE TO THE MAN BY WHOM THE SCANDAL COMETH! said Mrs Riordan. IT WOULD BE BETTER FOR HIM THAT A MILLSTONE WERE TIED ABOUT HIS NECK AND THAT HE WERE CAST INTO THE DEPTHS OF THE SEA RATHER THAN THAT HE SHOULD SCANDALIZE ONE OF THESE, MY LEAST LITTLE ONES. That is the language of the Holy Ghost.
——造成丑闻的人有祸了！赖尔登夫人说。对他来说，最好将一块磨石绑在他的脖子上，把他扔进大海的深处，而不是让我最小的孩子们受到惊吓。那是圣灵的语言。

—And very bad language if you ask me, said Mr Dedalus coolly.
——如果你问我的话，我的语言非常粗俗，迪达勒斯先生冷静地说。

—Simon! Simon! said uncle Charles. The boy.
——西蒙！西蒙！查尔斯叔叔说。男孩。

—Yes, yes, said Mr Dedalus. I meant about the... I was thinking about the bad language of the railway porter. Well now, that’s all right. Here, Stephen, show me your plate, old chap. Eat away now. Here.
——是的，是的，迪达勒斯先生说。我的意思是……我在想铁路搬运工的脏话。现在好了，没关系。来吧，史蒂芬，给我看看你的盘子，老伙计。现在就走开吧。这里。

He heaped up the food on Stephen’s plate and served uncle Charles and Mr Casey to large pieces of turkey and splashes of sauce. Mrs Dedalus was eating little and Dante sat with her hands in her lap. She was red in the face. Mr Dedalus rooted with the carvers at the end of the dish and said:
他把食物堆在斯蒂芬的盘子里，然后给查尔斯叔叔和凯西先生端上大块火鸡和酱汁。迪达勒斯夫人吃得很少，但丁坐在她的腿上，双手放在她的腿上。她满脸通红。迪达勒斯先生对菜品末端的雕刻师表示不满，说道：

—There’s a tasty bit here we call the pope’s nose. If any lady or gentleman...
——这里有一个美味的地方，我们称之为教皇的鼻子。如果有哪位女士或先生...

He held a piece of fowl up on the prong of the carving fork. Nobody spoke. He put it on his own plate, saying:
他把一块家禽放在切肉叉的尖头上。没有人说话。他把它放在自己的盘子里，说道：

—Well, you can’t say but you were asked. I think I had better eat it myself because I’m not well in my health lately.
——嗯，你不能说，但有人问你。我想我还是自己吃吧，因为我最近身体不太好。

He winked at Stephen and, replacing the dish-cover, began to eat again.
他对斯蒂芬眨了眨眼睛，然后盖上碗盖，又开始吃东西了。

There was a silence while he ate. Then he said:
他吃饭的时候一片寂静。然后他说：

—Well now, the day kept up fine after all. There were plenty of strangers down too.
——好吧，这一天终究还是过得很好。楼下还有很多陌生人。

Nobody spoke. He said again:
没有人说话。他又说：

—I think there were more strangers down than last Christmas.
——我认为楼下的陌生人比去年圣诞节还要多。

He looked round at the others whose faces were bent towards their plates and, receiving no reply, waited for a moment and said bitterly:
他环顾四周，其他人都把脸埋在盘子里，没有得到任何回应，等了一会儿，苦涩地说：

—Well, my Christmas dinner has been spoiled anyhow.
——好吧，无论如何，我的圣诞晚餐已经被破坏了。

—There could be neither luck nor grace, Dante said, in a house where there is no respect for the pastors of the church.
——但丁说，在一个不尊重教会牧师的房子里，既不会有运气，也不会有恩典。

Mr Dedalus threw his knife and fork noisily on his plate.
迪达勒斯先生把他的刀叉扔到盘子上，发出响亮的声音。

—Respect! he said. Is it for Billy with the lip or for the tub of guts up in Armagh? Respect!
-尊重！他说。是为了比利的嘴唇还是为了阿马的胆量？尊重！

—Princes of the church, said Mr Casey with slow scorn.
——教会的王子们，凯西先生轻蔑地说。

—Lord Leitrim’s coachman, yes, said Mr Dedalus.
——是的，雷特里姆勋爵的马车夫，迪达勒斯先生说。

—They are the Lord’s anointed, Dante said. They are an honour to their country.
——他们是主的受膏者，但丁说。他们是他们国家的荣耀。

—Tub of guts, said Mr Dedalus coarsely. He has a handsome face, mind you, in repose. You should see that fellow lapping up his bacon and cabbage of a cold winter’s day. O Johnny!
——胆子真大，迪达勒斯先生粗声粗气地说。请注意，他有一张英俊的脸，在休息时。你应该看到那个家伙正在狼吞虎咽地吃着寒冷冬日的培根和卷心菜。噢，约翰尼！

He twisted his features into a grimace of heavy bestiality and made a lapping noise with his lips.
他的面容扭曲成一副兽性般的鬼脸，并用嘴唇发出舔舐的声音。

—Really, Simon, you should not speak that way before Stephen. It’s not right.
——真的，西蒙，你不应该在史蒂芬面前那样说。这是不对的。

—O, he’ll remember all this when he grows up, said Dante hotly—the language he heard against God and religion and priests in his own home.
——哦，等他长大了，他会记住这一切，但丁激动地说——这是他在自己家里听到的反对上帝、宗教和牧师的语言。

—Let him remember too, cried Mr Casey to her from across the table, the language with which the priests and the priests’ pawns broke Parnell’s heart and hounded him into his grave. Let him remember that too when he grows up.
——让他也记住，凯西先生在桌子对面对她喊道，神父们和神父们的爪牙所用的语言伤了帕内尔的心，把他逼进了坟墓。让他长大后也记住这一点。

—Sons of bitches! cried Mr Dedalus. When he was down they turned on him to betray him and rend him like rats in a sewer. Low-lived dogs! And they look it! By Christ, they look it!
——王八蛋！迪达勒斯先生喊道。当他情绪低落时，他们背叛了他，把他像下水道里的老鼠一样撕碎。低命狗！他们看起来就是这样！天哪，他们看起来就是这样！

—They behaved rightly, cried Dante. They obeyed their bishops and their priests. Honour to them!
——他们的行为是正确的，但丁喊道。他们服从主教和牧师。向他们致敬！

—Well, it is perfectly dreadful to say that not even for one day in the year, said Mrs Dedalus, can we be free from these dreadful disputes!
——好吧，迪达勒斯夫人说，一年中没有一天我们能摆脱这些可怕的争论，真是太可怕了！

Uncle Charles raised his hands mildly and said:
查尔斯叔叔轻轻举起双手，说道：

—Come now, come now, come now! Can we not have our opinions whatever they are without this bad temper and this bad language? It is too bad surely.
——来吧，来吧，来吧！如果没有这种坏脾气和这种脏话，我们就不能有自己的观点吗？这确实太糟糕了。

Mrs Dedalus spoke to Dante in a low voice but Dante said loudly:
迪达勒斯夫人低声对但丁说话，但丁却大声说道：

—I will not say nothing. I will defend my church and my religion when it is insulted and spit on by renegade catholics.
——我不会说什么。当我的教会和我的宗教受到叛徒天主教徒的侮辱和吐口水时，我将捍卫它。

Mr Casey pushed his plate rudely into the middle of the table and, resting his elbows before him, said in a hoarse voice to his host:
凯西先生粗鲁地把他的盘子推到桌子中间，然后把胳膊肘撑在身前，用沙哑的声音对主人说：

—Tell me, did I tell you that story about a very famous spit?
——告诉我，我有没有告诉过你那个关于一个非常有名的口水的故事？

—You did not, John, said Mr Dedalus.
——你没有，约翰，迪达勒斯先生说。

—Why then, said Mr Casey, it is a most instructive story. It happened not long ago in the county Wicklow where we are now.
——那么，凯西先生说，这是一个最具启发性的故事。不久前，这件事发生在我们现在所在的威克洛郡。

He broke off and, turning towards Dante, said with quiet indignation:
他停了下来，转向但丁，带着平静的愤慨说道：

—And I may tell you, ma’am, that I, if you mean me, am no renegade catholic. I am a catholic as my father was and his father before him and his father before him again, when we gave up our lives rather than sell our faith.
——女士，我可以告诉你，如果你指的是我的话，我并不是一个叛逆的天主教徒。我是一名天主教徒，就像我的父亲、他之前的父亲以及他之前的父亲一样，当时我们放弃了自己的生命，而不是出卖我们的信仰。

—The more shame to you now, Dante said, to speak as you do.
——但丁说，现在你这样说话更丢人了。

—The story, John, said Mr Dedalus smiling. Let us have the story anyhow.
——故事，约翰，迪达勒斯先生微笑着说道。无论如何，让我们来听听这个故事吧。

—Catholic indeed! repeated Dante ironically. The blackest protestant in the land would not speak the language I have heard this evening.
——确实是天主教徒！但丁讽刺地重复道。这片土地上最黑人的新教徒不会说我今晚听到的语言。

Mr Dedalus began to sway his head to and fro, crooning like a country singer.
迪达勒斯先生开始前后摇头，像乡村歌手一样低声吟唱。

—I am no protestant, I tell you again, said Mr Casey, flushing.
——我不是新教徒，我再说一遍，凯西先生红着脸说道。

Mr Dedalus, still crooning and swaying his head, began to sing in a grunting nasal tone:
迪达勒斯先生仍然低吟着，摇着头，开始用鼻音哼唱：

O, come all you Roman catholics That never went to mass.
噢，来吧，你们这些从未参加过弥撒的罗马天主教徒。

He took up his knife and fork again in good humour and set to eating, saying to Mr Casey:
他又幽默地拿起刀叉开始吃饭，对凯西先生说：

—Let us have the story, John. It will help us to digest.
——让我们听听这个故事吧，约翰。它将帮助我们消化。

Stephen looked with affection at Mr Casey’s face which stared across the table over his joined hands. He liked to sit near him at the fire, looking up at his dark fierce face. But his dark eyes were never fierce and his slow voice was good to listen to. But why was he then against the priests? Because Dante must be right then. But he had heard his father say that she was a spoiled nun and that she had come out of the convent in the Alleghanies when her brother had got the money from the savages for the trinkets and the chainies. Perhaps that made her severe against Parnell. And she did not like him to play with Eileen because Eileen was a protestant and when she was young she knew children that used to play with protestants and the protestants used to make fun of the litany of the Blessed Virgin. TOWER OF IVORY, they used to say, HOUSE OF GOLD! How could a woman be a tower of ivory or a house of gold? Who was right then? And he remembered the evening in the infirmary in Clongowes, the dark waters, the light at the pierhead and the moan of sorrow from the people when they had heard.
斯蒂芬满怀深情地看着凯西先生的脸，凯西先生的脸越过桌子，越过他紧握的双手。他喜欢坐在火边，靠近他，抬头看着他那张黝黑而凶恶的脸。但他的黑眼睛从来不凶狠，他缓慢的声音很好听。但他为什么要反对祭司呢？因为但丁当时一定是对的。但他听父亲说她是个被宠坏的修女，当她哥哥从野蛮人那里得到了买小饰品和链子的钱时，她就从阿勒格尼的修道院出来了。也许这使她对帕内尔变得严厉。她不喜欢他和艾琳一起玩，因为艾琳是一名新教徒，当她年轻的时候，她认识一些经常和新教徒一起玩耍的孩子，而新教徒常常取笑圣母的连祷文。人们常说，象牙塔、黄金屋！女人怎么可能是象牙塔、黄金屋呢？当时谁是对的？他还记得那天晚上在克朗戈斯的医务室里，漆黑的海水，码头上的灯光，以及人们听到消息后发出的悲伤的呻吟声。

Eileen had long white hands. One evening when playing tig she had put her hands over his eyes: long and white and thin and cold and soft. That was ivory: a cold white thing. That was the meaning of TOWER OF IVORY.
艾琳有一双又长又白的手。一天晚上，当她玩老虎时，她把手放在他的眼睛上：又长又白又薄又冷又软。那是象牙：一种冷白色的东西。这就是象牙塔的意义。

—The story is very short and sweet, Mr Casey said. It was one day down in Arklow, a cold bitter day, not long before the chief died. May God have mercy on him!
——这个故事非常简短而温馨，凯西先生说。那是在阿克洛的一天，寒冷刺骨的一天，就在酋长去世前不久。愿上帝怜悯他！

He closed his eyes wearily and paused. Mr Dedalus took a bone from his plate and tore some meat from it with his teeth, saying:
他疲倦地闭上眼睛，停了下来。迪达勒斯先生从盘子里取出一根骨头，用牙齿从上面撕下一些肉，说道：

—Before he was killed, you mean.
——你是说，在他被杀之前。

Mr Casey opened his eyes, sighed and went on:
凯西先生睁开眼睛，叹了口气，继续说道：

—It was down in Arklow one day. We were down there at a meeting and after the meeting was over we had to make our way to the railway station through the crowd. Such booing and baaing, man, you never heard. They called us all the names in the world. Well there was one old lady, and a drunken old harridan she was surely, that paid all her attention to me. She kept dancing along beside me in the mud bawling and screaming into my face: PRIEST-HUNTER! THE PARIS FUNDS! MR FOX! KITTY O’SHEA!
——有一天，发生在阿克洛。我们在那里参加一个会议，会议结束后，我们不得不穿过人群前往火车站。这样的嘘声和咩声，老兄，你从来没有听过。他们用世界上所有的名字称呼我们。嗯，有一位老太太，她肯定是个喝醉了的老哈里丹，她把所有的注意力都集中在我身上。她在泥浆里一直在我旁边跳舞，对着我的脸大声尖叫：牧师猎人！巴黎基金！狐狸先生！基蒂·奥谢！

—And what did you do, John? asked Mr Dedalus.
——约翰，你做了什么？迪达勒斯先生问道。

—I let her bawl away, said Mr Casey. It was a cold day and to keep up my heart I had (saving your presence, ma’am) a quid of Tullamore in my mouth and sure I couldn’t say a word in any case because my mouth was full of tobacco juice.
——我让她哭了，凯西先生说。那天很冷，为了让我的心保持活力，我嘴里含了一英镑塔拉莫尔（为了保住你的存在，女士），当然我无论如何也说不出一句话，因为我的嘴里充满了烟草汁。

—Well, John?
——嗯，约翰？

—Well. I let her bawl away, to her heart’s content, KITTY O’SHEA and the rest of it till at last she called that lady a name that I won’t sully this Christmas board nor your ears, ma’am, nor my own lips by repeating.
-出色地。我任由她痛哭失声，尽情地喊叫“基蒂·奥谢”以及其他的一切，直到最后她给那位女士起了个名字，我不会玷污这个圣诞板，也不会玷污你的耳朵，女士，也不会玷污我自己的嘴唇。通过重复。

He paused. Mr Dedalus, lifting his head from the bone, asked:
他停了下来。迪达勒斯先生从骨头上抬起头，问道：

—And what did you do, John?
——约翰，你做了什么？

—Do! said Mr Casey. She stuck her ugly old face up at me when she said it and I had my mouth full of tobacco juice. I bent down to her and PHTH! says I to her like that.
-做！凯西先生说。当她说这句话的时候，她把那张丑陋的老脸抬起来看着我，我的嘴里满是烟草汁。我向她和PHTH弯下腰！我这样对她说。

He turned aside and made the act of spitting.
他转过身，做出了吐口水的动作。

—PHTH! says I to her like that, right into her eye.
——PHTH！我对着她的眼睛这样说道。

He clapped his hand to his eye and gave a hoarse scream of pain.
他用手捂住眼睛，发出痛苦的嘶哑尖叫。

—O JESUS, MARY AND JOSEPH! says she. I’M BLINDED! I’M BLINDED AND DROWNDED!
——耶稣、玛丽和约瑟夫啊！她说。我失明了！我失明了并且被淹死了！

He stopped in a fit of coughing and laughter, repeating:
他突然停止了咳嗽和笑声，重复道：

—I’M BLINDED ENTIRELY.
——我完全失明了。

Mr Dedalus laughed loudly and lay back in his chair while uncle Charles swayed his head to and fro.
迪达勒斯先生放声大笑，靠在椅子上，查尔斯叔叔则前后摇晃着头。

Dante looked terribly angry and repeated while they laughed:
但丁看上去非常生气，在他们笑着重复道：

—Very nice! Ha! Very nice!
-很不错！哈！很不错！

It was not nice about the spit in the woman’s eye.
口水流进女人的眼睛里，这可不太好。

But what was the name the woman had called Kitty O’Shea that Mr Casey would not repeat? He thought of Mr Casey walking through the crowds of people and making speeches from a wagonette. That was what he had been in prison for and he remembered that one night Sergeant O’Neill had come to the house and had stood in the hall, talking in a low voice with his father and chewing nervously at the chinstrap of his cap. And that night Mr Casey had not gone to Dublin by train but a car had come to the door and he had heard his father say something about the Cabinteely road.
但凯西先生不愿重复的那个女人叫基蒂·奥谢的名字是什么？他想起凯西先生穿过人群，坐在马车上发表演讲。这就是他入狱的原因，他记得有一天晚上，奥尼尔中士来到这所房子，站在大厅里，低声与他的父亲交谈，紧张地咬着他帽子的下巴带。那天晚上，凯西先生没有乘火车去都柏林，但一辆车开到了门口，他听到父亲说了一些关于卡宾提利路的事情。

He was for Ireland and Parnell and so was his father: and so was Dante too for one night at the band on the esplanade she had hit a gentleman on the head with her umbrella because he had taken off his hat when the band played GOD SAVE THE QUEEN at the end.
他支持爱尔兰和帕内尔，他的父亲也是如此：但丁也是如此，有一次在滨海大道上的乐队表演中，她用雨伞击中了一位绅士的头部，因为当乐队演奏《GOD SAVE》时，他脱下了帽子。女王在最后。

Mr Dedalus gave a snort of contempt.
迪达勒斯先生轻蔑地哼了一声。

—Ah, John, he said. It is true for them. We are an unfortunate priest-ridden race and always were and always will be till the end of the chapter.
——啊，约翰，他说。对他们来说确实如此。我们是一个不幸的被牧师缠身的种族，并且一直如此，并且永远如此，直到本章结束。

Uncle Charles shook his head, saying:
查尔斯叔叔摇摇头，说道：

—A bad business! A bad business!
——生意不好！生意不好！

Mr Dedalus repeated:
迪达勒斯先生重复道：

—A priest-ridden Godforsaken race!
——一个被牧师缠身的被上帝遗弃的种族！

He pointed to the portrait of his grandfather on the wall to his right.
他指着右边墙上的祖父的肖像。

—Do you see that old chap up there, John? he said. He was a good Irishman when there was no money in the job. He was condemned to death as a whiteboy. But he had a saying about our clerical friends, that he would never let one of them put his two feet under his mahogany.
——约翰，你看到上面那个老家伙了吗？他说。当工作没有钱的时候，他是一个好爱尔兰人。他作为白人男孩被判处死刑。但他对我们的牧师朋友有一句话说，他永远不会让他们中的任何一个人把他的两只脚放在他的桃花心木下面。

Dante broke in angrily:
但丁愤怒地插话道：

—If we are a priest-ridden race we ought to be proud of it! They are the apple of God’s eye. TOUCH THEM NOT, says Christ, FOR THEY ARE THE APPLE OF MY EYE.
——如果我们是一个牧师盛行的种族，我们就应该为此感到自豪！他们是上帝的掌上明珠。基督说，不要碰它们，因为它们是我的掌上明珠。

—And can we not love our country then? asked Mr Casey. Are we not to follow the man that was born to lead us?
——那我们能不爱我们的国家吗？凯西先生问道。难道我们不应该追随那个生来领导我们的人吗？

—A traitor to his country! replied Dante. A traitor, an adulterer! The priests were right to abandon him. The priests were always the true friends of Ireland.
——祖国的叛徒！但丁回答道。叛徒、奸夫！牧师们抛弃他是正确的。牧师们始终是爱尔兰真正的朋友。

—Were they, faith? said Mr Casey.
——信仰，是吗？凯西先生说。

He threw his fist on the table and, frowning angrily, protruded one finger after another.
他一拳砸在桌子上，愤怒地皱着眉头，伸出一根又一根手指。

—Didn’t the bishops of Ireland betray us in the time of the union when Bishop Lanigan presented an address of loyalty to the Marquess Cornwallis? Didn’t the bishops and priests sell the aspirations of their country in 1829 in return for catholic emancipation? Didn’t they denounce the fenian movement from the pulpit and in the confession box? And didn’t they dishonour the ashes of Terence Bellew MacManus?
——当拉尼根主教向康沃利斯侯爵发表效忠演说时，爱尔兰的主教们不是背叛了我们吗？ 1829年，主教和神父们不是出卖了国家的愿望来换取天主教的解放吗？他们不是在讲坛上和忏悔室里谴责芬尼运动吗？他们不是玷污了特伦斯·贝柳·麦克马纳斯的骨灰吗？

His face was glowing with anger and Stephen felt the glow rise to his own cheek as the spoken words thrilled him. Mr Dedalus uttered a guffaw of coarse scorn.
他的脸因愤怒而变得通红，斯蒂芬感到自己的脸颊上泛起了红光，因为他所说的话让他感到兴奋。迪达勒斯先生发出一声粗俗的轻蔑大笑。

—O, by God, he cried, I forgot little old Paul Cullen! Another apple of God’s eye!
——噢，上帝啊，他喊道，我忘记了小老保罗·卡伦！又一个上帝的掌上明珠！

Dante bent across the table and cried to Mr Casey:
但丁趴在桌子上，对凯西先生喊道：

—Right! Right! They were always right! God and morality and religion come first.
-正确的！正确的！他们总是对的！上帝、道德和宗教是第一位的。

Mrs Dedalus, seeing her excitement, said to her:
迪达勒斯夫人看到她兴奋的样子，对她说：

—Mrs Riordan, don’t excite yourself answering them.
——Riordan 女士，回答这些问题时不要太兴奋。

—God and religion before everything! Dante cried. God and religion before the world.
——上帝和宗教高于一切！但丁哭了。上帝和宗教摆在世界面前。

Mr Casey raised his clenched fist and brought it down on the table with a crash.
凯西先生举起紧握的拳头，重重地砸在桌子上。

—Very well then, he shouted hoarsely, if it comes to that, no God for Ireland!
——那好吧，他嘶哑地喊道，如果事情真的发生了，爱尔兰就没有上帝了！

—John! John! cried Mr Dedalus, seizing his guest by the coat sleeve.
-约翰！约翰！迪达勒斯先生喊道，抓住了客人的衣袖。

Dante stared across the table, her cheeks shaking. Mr Casey struggled up from his chair and bent across the table towards her, scraping the air from before his eyes with one hand as though he were tearing aside a cobweb.
但丁盯着桌子对面，她的脸颊在颤抖。凯西先生挣扎着从椅子上站起来，跨过桌子朝她弯下腰，用一只手刮掉眼前的空气，就像撕开蜘蛛网一样。

—No God for Ireland! he cried. We have had too much God In Ireland. Away with God!
——爱尔兰没有上帝！他哭了。在爱尔兰，我们有太多的上帝。远离神吧！

—Blasphemer! Devil! screamed Dante, starting to her feet and almost spitting in his face.
——亵渎者！魔鬼！但丁尖叫着，站了起来，差点儿把口水吐到他脸上。

Uncle Charles and Mr Dedalus pulled Mr Casey back into his chair again, talking to him from both sides reasonably. He stared before him out of his dark flaming eyes, repeating:
查尔斯叔叔和迪达勒斯先生又把凯西先生拉回椅子上，从两边合理地和他交谈。他用黑色的火焰眼睛盯着前方，重复道：

—Away with God, I say!
——我说，滚开上帝吧！

Dante shoved her chair violently aside and left the table, upsetting her napkin-ring which rolled slowly along the carpet and came to rest against the foot of an easy-chair. Mrs Dedalus rose quickly and followed her towards the door. At the door Dante turned round violently and shouted down the room, her cheeks flushed and quivering with rage:
但丁猛烈地把她的椅子推到一边，离开了桌子，打翻了她的餐巾环，餐巾环沿着地毯慢慢地滚动，最后靠在了安乐椅的脚上。迪达勒斯夫人迅速起身，跟着她朝门口走去。到了门口，但丁猛烈地转过身来，冲着房间大喊，她的脸颊通红，气得发抖：

—Devil out of hell! We won! We crushed him to death! Fiend!
——恶魔从地狱里出来！我们赢了！我们把他压死了！恶魔！

The door slammed behind her.
门在她身后关上。

Mr Casey, freeing his arms from his holders, suddenly bowed his head on his hands with a sob of pain.
凯西先生从握着的手上松开手臂，突然痛苦地低下头，双手抱住。

—Poor Parnell! he cried loudly. My dead king!
——可怜的帕内尔！他大声喊道。我死去的国王！

He sobbed loudly and bitterly.
他大声而痛苦地抽泣着。

Stephen, raising his terror-stricken face, saw that his father’s eyes were full of tears.
斯蒂芬抬起惊恐的脸，看到父亲的眼里充满了泪水。

*****

The fellows talked together in little groups.
同学们分成小组一起交谈。

One fellow said:
一位同行说道：

—They were caught near the Hill of Lyons.
——他们是在里昂山附近被捕的。

—Who caught them?
——谁抓住了他们？

—Mr Gleeson and the minister. They were on a car. The same fellow added:
——格里森先生和部长。他们在车上。同一个人补充道：

—A fellow in the higher line told me.
——一位高层人士告诉我的。

Fleming asked:
弗莱明问道：

—But why did they run away, tell us?
——但告诉我们，他们为什么逃跑？

—I know why, Cecil Thunder said. Because they had fecked cash out of the rector’s room.
——我知道为什么，塞西尔·雷霆说。因为他们从校长的房间里盗走了现金。

—Who fecked it?
——谁搞砸了？

—Kickham’s brother. And they all went shares in it.
——基卡姆的兄弟。他们都入股了。

—But that was stealing. How could they have done that?
——但那是偷窃。他们怎么能这么做呢？

—A fat lot you know about it, Thunder! Wells said. I know why they scut.
——雷霆，你对此了解得太多了！威尔斯说。我知道他们为什么要砍。

—Tell us why.
——告诉我们原因。

—I was told not to, Wells said.
——我被告知不要这样做，威尔斯说。

—O, go on, Wells, all said. You might tell us. We won’t let it out.
——哦，继续吧，威尔斯，大家都这么说。你可能会告诉我们。我们不会让它泄露出去。

Stephen bent forward his head to hear. Wells looked round to see if anyone was coming. Then he said secretly:
斯蒂芬向前倾着头听。威尔斯环顾四周，看看是否有人过来。然后他暗暗说道：

—You know the altar wine they keep in the press in the sacristy?
——你知道圣器收藏室里压榨的祭坛酒吗？

—Yes.
-是的。

—Well, they drank that and it was found out who did it by the smell. And that’s why they ran away, if you want to know.
——嗯，他们喝了这个，凭气味就能知道是谁干的。如果你想知道的话，这就是他们逃跑的原因。

And the fellow who had spoken first said:
最先发言的那个人说道：

—Yes, that’s what I heard too from the fellow in the higher line.
——是的，这也是我从上层人士那里听到的。

The fellows all were silent. Stephen stood among them, afraid to speak, listening. A faint sickness of awe made him feel weak. How could they have done that? He thought of the dark silent sacristy. There were dark wooden presses there where the crimped surplices lay quietly folded. It was not the chapel but still you had to speak under your breath. It was a holy place. He remembered the summer evening he had been there to be dressed as boatbearer, the evening of the Procession to the little altar in the wood. A strange and holy place. The boy that held the censer had swung it lifted by the middle chain to keep the coals lighting. That was called charcoal: and it had burned quietly as the fellow had swung it gently and had given off a weak sour smell. And then when all were vested he had stood holding out the boat to the rector and the rector had put a spoonful of incense in it and it had hissed on the red coals.
伙计们全都沉默了。斯蒂芬站在他们中间，不敢说话，只是听着。一股淡淡的敬畏感让他感到虚弱。他们怎么能这么做呢？他想到了黑暗、寂静的圣器收藏室。那里有深色的木压机，卷曲的法衣静静地折叠在那里。这不是教堂，但你仍然必须小声说话。那是一个圣地。他记得那个夏天的傍晚，他打扮成船夫，游行到树林里的小祭坛的那个晚上。一个陌生而神圣的地方。拿着香炉的男孩用中间的链条将香炉摇晃起来，以保持煤炭点燃。那叫木炭，那人轻轻一晃，它就静静地燃烧起来，散发出淡淡的酸味。然后，当所有人都获得了归属权后，他站在那儿，把船递给了校长，校长在里面放了一勺香，它在红色的煤炭上发出嘶嘶声。

The fellows were talking together in little groups here and there on the playground. The fellows seemed to him to have grown smaller: that was because a sprinter had knocked him down the day before, a fellow out of second of grammar. He had been thrown by the fellow’s machine lightly on the cinder path and his spectacles had been broken in three pieces and some of the grit of the cinders had gone into his mouth.
操场上，同学们三五成群地聊天。在他看来，这些家伙似乎变小了：那是因为前一天，一名短跑运动员把他撞倒了，他是一名文法二年级的家伙。他被那家伙的机器轻轻地扔到了煤渣路上，他的眼镜碎成了三块，一些煤渣沙粒进入了他的嘴里。

That was why the fellows seemed to him smaller and farther away and the goalposts so thin and far and the soft grey sky so high up. But there was no play on the football grounds for cricket was coming: and some said that Barnes would be prof and some said it would be Flowers. And all over the playgrounds they were playing rounders and bowling twisters and lobs. And from here and from there came the sounds of the cricket bats through the soft grey air. They said: pick, pack, pock, puck: little drops of water in a fountain slowly falling in the brimming bowl.
这就是为什么在他看来，这些家伙显得更小、更远，球门柱又细又远，柔和的灰色天空又那么高。但足球场上没有比赛，因为板球比赛即将到来：有人说巴恩斯将成为教授，有人说将成为弗劳尔斯。整个操场上，他们都在玩圆球、保龄球扭转球和高吊球。柔和的灰色空气中，从这里、那里传来板球拍的声音。他们说：挑选、打包、麻点、冰球：喷泉中的小水滴慢慢地落入满溢的碗中。

Athy, who had been silent, said quietly:
一直沉默的阿蒂轻声说道：

—You are all wrong.
——你们都错了。

All turned towards him eagerly.
所有人都热切地转向他。

—Why?
-为什么？

—Do you know?
-你知道吗？

—Who told you?
-谁告诉你？

—Tell us, Athy.
——告诉我们，艾西。

Athy pointed across the playground to where Simon Moonan was walking by himself kicking a stone before him.
艾西指着操场另一边，西蒙·穆南正在独自行走，踢着面前的一块石头。

—Ask him, he said.
——问他吧，他说。

The fellows looked there and then said:
同伴们看了看，然后说道：

—Why him?
-为什么是他？

—Is he in it?
——他在里面吗？

Athy lowered his voice and said:
艾蒂压低声音说道：

—Do you know why those fellows scut? I will tell you but you must not let on you know.
——你知道那些家伙为什么要偷袭吗？我会告诉你，但你一定不要让别人知道。

—Tell us, Athy. Go on. You might if you know.
——告诉我们，艾西。继续。如果你知道的话你可能会这么做。

He paused for a moment and then said mysteriously:
他顿了顿，然后神秘地说道：

—They were caught with Simon Moonan and Tusker Boyle in the square one night.
——一天晚上，他们与西蒙·穆南和塔斯克·博伊尔一起在广场上被捕。

The fellows looked at him and asked:
众人看着他问道：

—Caught?
-捕捉？

—What doing?
-做什么？

Athy said:
阿西 说：

—Smugging.
——走私。

All the fellows were silent: and Athy said:
所有的人都沉默了，艾西说道：

—And that’s why.
——这就是原因。

Stephen looked at the faces of the fellows but they were all looking across the playground. He wanted to ask somebody about it. What did that mean about the smugging in the square? Why did the five fellows out of the higher line run away for that? It was a joke, he thought. Simon Moonan had nice clothes and one night he had shown him a ball of creamy sweets that the fellows of the football fifteen had rolled down to him along the carpet in the middle of the refectory when he was at the door. It was the night of the match against the Bective Rangers; and the ball was made just like a red and green apple only it opened and it was full of the creamy sweets. And one day Boyle had said that an elephant had two tuskers instead of two tusks and that was why he was called Tusker Boyle but some fellows called him Lady Boyle because he was always at his nails, paring them.
斯蒂芬看着大家的脸，但他们都把目光投向了操场的另一边。他想向某人询问这件事。广场上的走私事件意味着什么？上位五个人为何要逃跑？这是个玩笑，他想。西蒙·穆南穿着漂亮的衣服，有一天晚上，他给他看了一团奶油糖果，当他走到门口时，十五名足球队员们沿着餐厅中间的地毯滚到了他面前。那是对阵贝蒂夫流浪者队的比赛当晚。这个球的形状就像一个红绿相间的苹果，只是它打开了，里面装满了奶油糖果。有一天，博伊尔说过，一头大象有两颗象牙，而不是两颗象牙，这就是为什么他被称为“图斯克·博伊尔”，但有些人称他为“博伊尔夫人”，因为他总是在修剪指甲。

Eileen had long thin cool white hands too because she was a girl. They were like ivory; only soft. That was the meaning of TOWER OF IVORY but protestants could not understand it and made fun of it. One day he had stood beside her looking into the hotel grounds. A waiter was running up a trail of bunting on the flagstaff and a fox terrier was scampering to and fro on the sunny lawn. She had put her hand into his pocket where his hand was and he had felt how cool and thin and soft her hand was. She had said that pockets were funny things to have: and then all of a sudden she had broken away and had run laughing down the sloping curve of the path. Her fair hair had streamed out behind her like gold in the sun. TOWER OF IVORY. HOUSE OF GOLD. By thinking of things you could understand them.
艾琳也有一双又长又细又白的手，因为她是个女孩。它们就像象牙一样；只是柔软。这就是象牙塔的意义，但新教徒无法理解它并取笑它。有一天，他站在她身边，眺望着酒店的庭院。一名服务员沿着旗杆上的彩旗奔跑，一只猎狐犬在阳光明媚的草坪上来回奔跑。她把手伸进他的口袋里，他的手就在那里，他感觉到她的手是多么冰凉、纤细、柔软。她说过口袋是个有趣的东西：然后突然她挣脱了束缚，笑着沿着小路的斜坡跑去。她的金发在身后飘逸，在阳光下如同金色。象牙塔。黄金屋。通过思考事物，你就能理解它们。

But why in the square? You went there when you wanted to do something. It was all thick slabs of slate and water trickled all day out of tiny pinholes and there was a queer smell of stale water there. And behind the door of one of the closets there was a drawing in red pencil of a bearded man in a Roman dress with a brick in each hand and underneath was the name of the drawing:
但为什么是在广场呢？当你想做某事时你就去那里。那里全是厚厚的石板，水整天从小针孔里滴下来，那里有一股奇怪的陈水味。其中一个壁橱的门后面有一张红铅笔画，画的是一个穿着罗马服装、留着胡子的男人，每只手拿着一块砖，下面是画的名字：

Balbus was building a wall.
巴尔布斯正在建造一堵墙。

Some fellow had drawn it there for a cod. It had a funny face but it was very like a man with a beard. And on the wall of another closet there was written in backhand in beautiful writing:
有人把它画在那里是为了一条鳕鱼。它有一张滑稽的脸，但很像一个留着胡子的男人。另一个壁橱的墙上用漂亮的反手写着：

Julius Caesar wrote The Calico Belly.
朱利叶斯·凯撒写了《印花布肚皮》。

Perhaps that was why they were there because it was a place where some fellows wrote things for cod. But all the same it was queer what Athy said and the way he said it. It was not a cod because they had run away. He looked with the others across the playground and began to feel afraid.
也许这就是他们在那里的原因，因为这是一些人为 cod 写东西的地方。但尽管如此，艾西所说的话和他说话的方式还是很奇怪。这不是鳕鱼，因为它们已经逃跑了。他和其他人一起看着操场对面，开始感到害怕。

At last Fleming said:
最后弗莱明说道：

—And we are all to be punished for what other fellows did?
——我们都要因为其他人的所作所为而受到惩罚？

—I won’t come back, see if I do, Cecil Thunder said. Three days’ silence in the refectory and sending us up for six and eight every minute.
——我不会回来，看看我会不会回来，塞西尔·雷霆说。餐厅里三天的沉默，让我们每分钟六点和八点。

—Yes, said Wells. And old Barrett has a new way of twisting the note so that you can’t open it and fold it again to see how many ferulae you are to get. I won’t come back too.
——是的，威尔斯说。老巴雷特有一种新的方法来扭转钞票，这样你就无法打开它并再次折叠它来看看你能得到多少张阿魏。我也不会回来了。

—Yes, said Cecil Thunder, and the prefect of studies was in second of grammar this morning.
——是的，塞西尔·雷霆说，今天早上，学习长正在上语法二年级。

—Let us get up a rebellion, Fleming said. Will we?
——让我们起义吧，弗莱明说。我们会？

All the fellows were silent. The air was very silent and you could hear the cricket bats but more slowly than before: pick, pock.
众人都沉默了。空气非常安静，你可以听到板球拍的声音，但速度比以前慢了：啄、戳。

Wells asked:
威尔斯问道：

—What is going to be done to them?
——要对他们做什么？

—Simon Moonan and Tusker are going to be flogged, Athy said, and the fellows in the higher line got their choice of flogging or being expelled.
——西蒙·穆南和图斯克将被鞭打，艾西说，高层的人可以选择鞭打或被开除。

—And which are they taking? asked the fellow who had spoken first.
——他们要拿什么？先发言的人问道。

—All are taking expulsion except Corrigan, Athy answered. He’s going to be flogged by Mr Gleeson.
——除了科里根之外，所有人都被开除，艾西回答道。他将被格里森先生鞭打。

—I know why, Cecil Thunder said. He is right and the other fellows are wrong because a flogging wears off after a bit but a fellow that has been expelled from college is known all his life on account of it. Besides Gleeson won’t flog him hard.
——我知道为什么，塞西尔·雷霆说。他是对的，其他人都是错的，因为鞭打很快就会消失，但一个被大学开除的人却因此而闻名。而且格里森不会狠狠地鞭打他。

—It’s best of his play not to, Fleming said.
——弗莱明说，他最好不要这样做。

—I wouldn’t like to be Simon Moonan and Tusker Cecil Thunder said. But I don’t believe they will be flogged. Perhaps they will be sent up for twice nine.
——我不想成为西蒙·穆南和图斯克·塞西尔·雷霆说道。但我不相信他们会被鞭打。也许他们会被送上两次九号位。

—No, no, said Athy. They’ll both get it on the vital spot. Wells rubbed himself and said in a crying voice:
——不，不，艾西说。他们都会在要害部位得到它。威尔斯揉了揉自己，哭着说道：

—Please, sir, let me off!
——先生，请放过我吧！

Athy grinned and turned up the sleeves of his jacket, saying:
艾西咧嘴一笑，卷起外套袖子，道：

It can’t be helped;
这是没办法的事；

It must be done.
必须这样做。

So down with your breeches
所以放下你的马裤

And out with your bum.
带着你的屁股出去。

The fellows laughed; but he felt that they were a little afraid. In the silence of the soft grey air he heard the cricket bats from here and from there: pock. That was a sound to hear but if you were hit then you would feel a pain. The pandybat made a sound too but not like that. The fellows said it was made of whalebone and leather with lead inside: and he wondered what was the pain like. There were different kinds of sounds. A long thin cane would have a high whistling sound and he wondered what was that pain like. It made him shivery to think of it and cold: and what Athy said too. But what was there to laugh at in it? It made him shivery: but that was because you always felt like a shiver when you let down your trousers. It was the same in the bath when you undressed yourself. He wondered who had to let them down, the master or the boy himself. O how could they laugh about it that way?
同伴们都笑了。但他感觉他们有些害怕。在柔和的灰色空气的寂静中，他听到了板球拍从这里到那里的声音：麻子。虽然这个声音听起来不错，但如果被击中，就会感到疼痛。潘迪蝙蝠也发出声音，但不是那样的。伙计们说它是用鲸骨和皮革制成的，里面有铅：他想知道疼痛是什么感觉。有各种各样的声音。一根细长的手杖会发出高亢的呼啸声，他想知道那种疼痛是什么样的。一想到这件事，他就浑身发抖，浑身发冷：还有艾西所说的话。但这有什么好笑的呢？这让他浑身发抖：但那是因为当你脱下裤子时，你总是感觉像在发抖。洗澡时脱衣服也是一样。他想知道到底是谁让他们失望了，是主人还是男孩本人。噢，他们怎么能这样笑呢？

He looked at Athy’s rolled-up sleeves and knuckly inky hands. He had rolled up his sleeves to show how Mr Gleeson would roll up his sleeves. But Mr Gleeson had round shiny cuffs and clean white wrists and fattish white hands and the nails of them were long and pointed. Perhaps he pared them too like Lady Boyle. But they were terribly long and pointed nails. So long and cruel they were, though the white fattish hands were not cruel but gentle. And though he trembled with cold and fright to think of the cruel long nails and of the high whistling sound of the cane and of the chill you felt at the end of your shirt when you undressed yourself yet he felt a feeling of queer quiet pleasure inside him to think of the white fattish hands, clean and strong and gentle. And he thought of what Cecil Thunder had said: that Mr Gleeson would not flog Corrigan hard. And Fleming had said he would not because it was best of his play not to. But that was not why
他看着艾西卷起的袖子和指节漆黑的双手。他卷起袖子是为了向格里森先生展示如何卷起袖子。但格里森先生的袖口又圆又亮，手腕洁白，手又肥又白，指甲又长又尖。也许他也像博伊尔夫人一样削减了它们。但它们的指甲又长又尖。它们又长又残忍，尽管那双白胖的手并不残忍，而是温柔。尽管一想到残酷的长指甲、手杖的高声呼啸声，以及脱衣服时衬衫末端的寒意，他就感到寒冷和恐惧，但他内心却感到一种奇怪的、安静的快乐。他想起那双白皙肥胖的手，干净、有力、温柔。他想起了塞西尔·雷霆的话：格里森先生不会狠狠地鞭打科里根。弗莱明说过他不会，因为他最好不这样做。但这不是原因

A voice from far out on the playground cried:
操场上远处传来一个声音：

—All in!
——全力以赴！

And other voices cried:
其他声音喊道：

—All in! All in!
——全力以赴！全部投入！

During the writing lesson he sat with his arms folded, listening to the slow scraping of the pens. Mr Harford went to and fro making little signs in red pencil and sometimes sitting beside the boy to show him how to hold his pen. He had tried to spell out the headline for himself though he knew already what it was for it was the last of the book. ZEAL WITHOUT PRUDENCE IS LIKE A SHIP ADRIFT. But the lines of the letters were like fine invisible threads and it was only by closing his right eye tight and staring out of the left eye that he could make out the full curves of the capital.
写作课上，他双臂交叉坐着，听着钢笔缓慢的摩擦声。哈福德先生来回用红铅笔做小手势，有时坐在男孩旁边教他如何握笔。他试图自己拼出标题，尽管他已经知道它是什么，因为这是这本书的最后一篇。热心而不审慎就像一艘漂流的船。但字母的线条就像看不见的细线，只有紧紧闭上右眼，用左眼向外看，才能看清大写字母的完整曲线。

But Mr Harford was very decent and never got into a wax. All the other masters got into dreadful waxes. But why were they to suffer for what fellows in the higher line did? Wells had said that they had drunk some of the altar wine out of the press in the sacristy and that it had been found out who had done it by the smell. Perhaps they had stolen a monstrance to run away with and sell it somewhere. That must have been a terrible sin, to go in there quietly at night, to open the dark press and steal the flashing gold thing into which God was put on the altar in the middle of flowers and candles at benediction while the incense went up in clouds at both sides as the fellow swung the censer and Dominic Kelly sang the first part by himself in the choir. But God was not in it of course when they stole it. But still it was a strange and a great sin even to touch it. He thought of it with deep awe; a terrible and strange sin: it thrilled him to think of it in the silence when the pens scraped lightly. But to drink the altar wine out of the press and be found out by the smell was a sin too: but it was not terrible and strange. It only made you feel a little sickish on account of the smell of the wine. Because on the day when he had made his first holy communion in the chapel he had shut his eyes and opened his mouth and put out his tongue a little: and when the rector had stooped down to give him the holy communion he had smelt a faint winy smell off the rector’s breath after the wine of the mass. The word was beautiful: wine. It made you think of dark purple because the grapes were dark purple that grew in Greece outside houses like white temples. But the faint smell of the rector’s breath had made him feel a sick feeling on the morning of his first communion. The day of your first communion was the happiest day of your life. And once a lot of generals had asked Napoleon what was the happiest day of his life. They thought he would say the day he won some great battle or the day he was made an emperor. But he said:
但哈福德先生非常正派，从来没有上过蜡。所有其他大师都涂上了可怕的蜡。但为什么他们要为高层人士的所作所为而受苦呢？威尔斯说，他们喝了一些从圣器收藏室压榨出来的祭坛酒，通过气味就知道是谁干的。也许他们偷了一个圣体圣体然后逃跑并在某个地方卖掉了。这一定是一个可怕的罪孽，在晚上悄悄地进入那里，打开黑暗的印刷机，偷走上帝放在祭坛上的闪闪发光的金子里，在祝福的鲜花和蜡烛中间，而香在里面升起。当那家伙摇动香炉时，两边都是云彩，多米尼克·凯利在唱诗班里独自唱了第一部分。但当他们偷走它时，上帝当然不在其中。但即便是碰触它，也是一种奇怪而巨大的罪孽。他怀着深深的敬畏之情想到这一点；这是一种可怕而奇怪的罪孽：当钢笔轻轻刮过的时候，在寂静中想起这件事，他感到很兴奋。但喝了压榨出来的坛酒，被气味发现也是一种罪过：但这并不可怕和奇怪。只是酒味让你觉得有点恶心。因为当他在教堂里第一次领圣餐的那天，他闭上了眼睛，张开了嘴，稍微伸出了舌头：当教区长弯下腰给他领圣餐时，他闻到了一股淡淡的气味。弥撒结束后，院长的口中散发着酒味。这个词很美丽：酒。它让你想到深紫色，因为葡萄是深紫色的，生长在希腊白色寺庙的房子外面。但在第一次领圣餐的那天早上，教区长的微弱气味让他感到一阵恶心。 你第一次领圣餐的那天是你一生中最快乐的一天。有一次，很多将军问拿破仑，他一生中最快乐的一天是哪一天。他们认为他会说他赢得一场伟大战役的那一天或他被拥立为皇帝的那一天。 但他说：

—Gentlemen, the happiest day of my life was the day on which I made my first holy communion.
——先生们，我一生中最快乐的一天是我第一次领圣餐的那一天。

Father Arnall came in and the Latin lesson began and he remained still, leaning on the desk with his arms folded. Father Arnall gave out the theme-books and he said that they were scandalous and that they were all to be written out again with the corrections at once. But the worst of all was Fleming’s theme because the pages were stuck together by a blot: and Father Arnall held it up by a corner and said it was an insult to any master to send him up such a theme. Then he asked Jack Lawton to decline the noun MARE and Jack Lawton stopped at the ablative singular and could not go on with the plural.
阿纳尔神父进来了，拉丁语课开始了，他仍然一动不动，双臂交叉靠在桌子上。阿纳尔神父分发了主题书，他说这些书都是可耻的，必须立即重新写出来并进行更正。但最糟糕的是弗莱明的主题，因为书页被一个污点粘在一起了：阿纳尔神父把它举在角落里，说给他写这样一个主题是对任何大师的侮辱。然后他要求杰克·劳顿拒绝使用名词“MARE”，杰克·劳顿停在了夺格单数上，无法继续使用复数。

—You should be ashamed of yourself, said Father Arnall sternly. You, the leader of the class!
——你应该为自己感到羞耻，阿纳尔神父严厉地说。你，班里的佼佼者！

Then he asked the next boy and the next and the next. Nobody knew. Father Arnall became very quiet, more and more quiet as each boy tried to answer it and could not. But his face was black-looking and his eyes were staring though his voice was so quiet. Then he asked Fleming and Fleming said that the word had no plural. Father Arnall suddenly shut the book and shouted at him:
然后他又问下一个男孩，再下一个，再下一个。没有人知道。阿纳尔神父变得非常安静，而且越来越安静，因为每个男孩都试图回答但无法回答。但他的声音却很平静，但他的脸色却是黑乎乎的，眼睛盯着。然后他问弗莱明，弗莱明说这个词没有复数。阿纳尔神父突然合上书，对他喊道：

—Kneel out there in the middle of the class. You are one of the idlest boys I ever met. Copy out your themes again the rest of you.
——跪在教室中间。你是我见过的最闲的男孩之一。其余的人再次复制你的主题。

Fleming moved heavily out of his place and knelt between the two last benches. The other boys bent over their theme-books and began to write. A silence filled the classroom and Stephen, glancing timidly at Father Arnall’s dark face, saw that it was a little red from the wax he was in.
弗莱明沉重地离开自己的位置，跪在最后两张长凳之间。其他男孩弯下腰，开始写主题书。教室里一片寂静，史蒂芬胆怯地瞥了一眼阿纳尔神父黝黑的脸，发现他的脸因蜡而变得有点红。

Was that a sin for Father Arnall to be in a wax or was he allowed to get into a wax when the boys were idle because that made them study better or was he only letting on to be in a wax? It was because he was allowed, because a priest would know what a sin was and would not do it. But if he did it one time by mistake what would he do to go to confession? Perhaps he would go to confession to the minister. And if the minister did it he would go to the rector: and the rector to the provincial: and the provincial to the general of the jesuits. That was called the order: and he had heard his father say that they were all clever men. They could all have become high-up people in the world if they had not become jesuits. And he wondered what Father Arnall and Paddy Barrett would have become and what Mr McGlade and Mr Gleeson would have become if they had not become jesuits. It was hard to think what because you would have to think of them in a different way with different coloured coats and trousers and with beards and moustaches and different kinds of hats.
阿纳尔神父在蜡中是一种罪过，还是他被允许在孩子们闲着的时候进入蜡中，因为这可以让他们学习得更好，或者他只是让自己在蜡中？这是因为他被允许，因为牧师知道什么是罪并且不会这样做。但如果他错了一次，他该怎么办去忏悔呢？也许他会去向部长忏悔。如果部长这样做了，他就会去找教区长，然后教区长去找省长，省长去找耶稣会总会长。这就是所谓的命令：他听父亲说过，他们都是聪明人。如果他们没有成为耶稣会士，他们都可能成为世界上的高层人物。他想知道如果阿纳尔神父和帕迪·巴雷特没有成为耶稣会士，他们会变成什么样子，麦格莱德先生和格里森先生会变成什么样子。很难想象是什么，因为你必须以不同的方式来看待他们，穿着不同颜色的外套和裤子，留着胡须和不同种类的帽子。

The door opened quietly and closed. A quick whisper ran through the class: the prefect of studies. There was an instant of dead silence and then the loud crack of a pandybat on the last desk. Stephen’s heart leapt up in fear.
门静静地打开又关上。课堂上响起了一阵低语：学习长官。一阵死一般的寂静，然后是最后一张桌子上的潘迪蝙蝠发出的巨响。斯蒂芬的心因恐惧而跳动。

—Any boys want flogging here, Father Arnall? cried the prefect of studies. Any lazy idle loafers that want flogging in this class?
——阿纳尔神父，有男孩想在这里受鞭打吗？学习长叫道。有没有懒惰的游手好闲者想在这堂课上鞭打？

He came to the middle of the class and saw Fleming on his knees.
他来到教室中间，看见弗莱明跪在地上。

—Hoho! he cried. Who is this boy? Why is he on his knees? What is your name, boy?
——嗬嗬！他哭了。这个男孩是谁？他为什么跪下？孩子，你叫什么名字？

—Fleming, sir.
——弗莱明，先生。

—Hoho, Fleming! An idler of course. I can see it in your eye. Why is he on his knees, Father Arnall?
——呵呵，弗莱明！当然是闲人。我可以从你的眼睛里看到它。阿纳尔神父，他为什么跪下？

—He wrote a bad Latin theme, Father Arnall said, and he missed all the questions in grammar.
——阿纳尔神父说，他写了一个糟糕的拉丁主题，而且他错过了所有语法问题。

—Of course he did! cried the prefect of studies, of course he did! A born idler! I can see it in the corner of his eye.
——他当然知道了！学习长喊道，他当然知道了！天生闲人！我可以从他的眼角看到它。

He banged his pandybat down on the desk and cried:
他把小球棒重重地摔在桌子上，哭道：

—Up, Fleming! Up, my boy!
——起来，弗莱明！起来吧，我的孩子！

Fleming stood up slowly.
弗莱明缓缓站起身来。

—Hold out! cried the prefect of studies.
-坚持！学习长叫道。

Fleming held out his hand. The pandybat came down on it with a loud smacking sound: one, two, three, four, five, six.
弗莱明伸出了手。潘迪蝙蝠落在它身上，发出响亮的拍打声：一、二、三、四、五、六。

—Other hand!
-另一方面！

The pandybat came down again in six loud quick smacks.
潘迪蝙蝠再次发出六声响亮的快速撞击声。

—Kneel down! cried the prefect of studies.
-下跪！学习长叫道。

Fleming knelt down, squeezing his hands under his armpits, his face contorted with pain; but Stephen knew how hard his hands were because Fleming was always rubbing rosin into them. But perhaps he was in great pain for the noise of the pandybat was terrible. Stephen’s heart was beating and fluttering.
弗莱明跪下，双手夹在腋下，脸因痛苦而扭曲。但史蒂芬知道他的手有多硬，因为弗莱明总是往手上抹松香。但也许他感到非常痛苦，因为潘迪蝙蝠的噪音太可怕了。斯蒂芬的心狂跳不已。

—At your work, all of you! shouted the prefect of studies. We want no lazy idle loafers here, lazy idle little schemers. At your work, I tell you. Father Dolan will be in to see you every day. Father Dolan will be in tomorrow.
——你们所有人，在你们的工作中！学习长官喊道。我们这里不要懒惰的游手好闲的人，懒惰的闲置的小阴谋家。在你的工作中，我告诉你。多兰神父每天都会来看你。多兰神父明天会来。

He poked one of the boys in the side with his pandybat, saying:
他用球棒戳了戳其中一个男孩的侧面，说道：

—You, boy! When will Father Dolan be in again?
-你小子！多兰神父什么时候再来？

—Tomorrow, sir, said Tom Furlong’s voice.
——明天，先生，汤姆·弗隆的声音说道。

—Tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow, said the prefect of studies. Make up your minds for that. Every day Father Dolan. Write away. You, boy, who are you?
——明天、明天、明天，学习长说。下定决心吧。多兰神父每天都在。写下来。你，孩子，你是谁？

Stephen’s heart jumped suddenly.
斯蒂芬的心突然一跳。

—Dedalus, sir.
——德达勒斯，先生。

—Why are you not writing like the others?
——你为什么不像其他人那样写作呢？

—I...my...
——我……我的……

He could not speak with fright.
他惊得说不出话来。

—Why is he not writing, Father Arnall?
——阿纳尔神父，他为什么不写信？

—He broke his glasses, said Father Arnall, and I exempted him from work.
——他打碎了眼镜，阿纳尔神父说，我免除了他的工作。

—Broke? What is this I hear? What is this your name is! said the prefect of studies.
——破产了？我听到的这是什么？你的名字是什么啊！学习长官说道。

—Dedalus, sir.
——德达勒斯，先生。

—Out here, Dedalus. Lazy little schemer. I see schemer in your face. Where did you break your glasses?
——在这里，迪达勒斯。懒惰的小阴谋家。我在你脸上看到了阴谋家。你的眼镜哪里摔碎了？

Stephen stumbled into the middle of the class, blinded by fear and haste.
斯蒂芬跌跌撞撞地走到班级中间，因恐惧和匆忙而盲目。

—Where did you break your glasses? repeated the prefect of studies.
——你的眼镜哪里摔坏了？省长重复了一遍研究。

—The cinder-path, sir.
——煤渣小路，先生。

—Hoho! The cinder-path! cried the prefect of studies. I know that trick.
——嗬嗬！煤渣路！学习长叫道。我知道这个伎俩。

Stephen lifted his eyes in wonder and saw for a moment Father Dolan’s white-grey not young face, his baldy white-grey head with fluff at the sides of it, the steel rims of his spectacles and his no-coloured eyes looking through the glasses. Why did he say he knew that trick?
史蒂芬惊奇地抬起眼睛，看到了多兰神父那张白灰色的、不年轻的脸，白灰色的秃头，两侧长着绒毛，眼镜的钢框和透过眼镜看去的无色眼睛。 。他为什么说他会这个招数？

—Lazy idle little loafer! cried the prefect of studies. Broke my glasses! An old schoolboy trick! Out with your hand this moment!
——懒惰的小懒汉！学习长叫道。打碎了我的眼镜！小学生的老把戏！此刻伸出你的手！

Stephen closed his eyes and held out in the air his trembling hand with the palm upwards. He felt the prefect of studies touch it for a moment at the fingers to straighten it and then the swish of the sleeve of the soutane as the pandybat was lifted to strike. A hot burning stinging tingling blow like the loud crack of a broken stick made his trembling hand crumple together like a leaf in the fire: and at the sound and the pain scalding tears were driven into his eyes. His whole body was shaking with fright, his arm was shaking and his crumpled burning livid hand shook like a loose leaf in the air. A cry sprang to his lips, a prayer to be let off. But though the tears scalded his eyes and his limbs quivered with pain and fright he held back the hot tears and the cry that scalded his throat.
斯蒂芬闭上眼睛，将颤抖的手举在空中，掌心向上。他感觉到研究长官用手指触碰了它一会儿，将其拉直，然后当潘迪蝙蝠被举起攻击时，苏坦的袖子发出嗖嗖的声音。一阵灼热刺痛的打击，就像一根折断的棍子发出的巨大响声，使他颤抖的手像火中的树叶一样崩溃：听到声音和疼痛，滚烫的泪水涌进了他的眼睛。他全身都在颤抖，手臂也在颤抖，那只皱巴巴、烧得青紫的手在空中颤抖得像一片散落的树叶。他嘴里发出一声呼喊，祈求得到释放。尽管泪水烫伤了他的眼睛，他的四肢因痛苦和恐惧而颤抖，但他还是忍住了滚烫的泪水和烫伤喉咙的哭声。

—Other hand! shouted the prefect of studies.
-另一方面！学习长官喊道。

Stephen drew back his maimed and quivering right arm and held out his left hand. The soutane sleeve swished again as the pandybat was lifted and a loud crashing sound and a fierce maddening tingling burning pain made his hand shrink together with the palms and fingers in a livid quivering mass. The scalding water burst forth from his eyes and, burning with shame and agony and fear, he drew back his shaking arm in terror and burst out into a whine of pain. His body shook with a palsy of fright and in shame and rage he felt the scalding cry come from his throat and the scalding tears falling out of his eyes and down his flaming cheeks.
史蒂芬收回他那残废而颤抖的右臂，伸出左手。当潘迪蝙蝠被举起时，苏丹的袖子再次嗖嗖地响，一声巨大的碰撞声和剧烈的令人发狂的刺痛灼痛让他的手连同手掌和手指一起收缩成一团青色的颤抖的东西。滚烫的水从他的眼睛里喷涌而出，羞耻、痛苦和恐惧灼烧着他，他惊恐地缩回了颤抖的手臂，发出一声痛苦的哀鸣。他的身体因恐惧而颤抖，在羞耻和愤怒中，他感到滚烫的叫喊从他的喉咙里发出，滚烫的泪水从他的眼睛里流下来，顺着他火红的脸颊流下来。

—Kneel down, cried the prefect of studies.
——跪下，学长喊道。

Stephen knelt down quickly pressing his beaten hands to his sides. To think of them beaten and swollen with pain all in a moment made him feel so sorry for them as if they were not his own but someone else’s that he felt sorry for. And as he knelt, calming the last sobs in his throat and feeling the burning tingling pain pressed into his sides, he thought of the hands which he had held out in the air with the palms up and of the firm touch of the prefect of studies when he had steadied the shaking fingers and of the beaten swollen reddened mass of palm and fingers that shook helplessly in the air.
斯蒂芬跪下来，迅速将受伤的双手按在身体两侧。想到他们一瞬间被打得肿肿的，他就为他们感到难过，就好像他们不是自己的，而是别人的，让他感到难过。当他跪下来，平复喉咙里最后的抽泣，感受身体两侧传来的灼烧般的刺痛感时，他想起了他举在空中、掌心向上的那双手，以及学长坚定的触碰。当他稳定住颤抖的手指以及在空中无助地颤抖的手掌和手指时，手掌和手指被打得肿胀发红。

—Get at your work, all of you, cried the prefect of studies from the door. Father Dolan will be in every day to see if any boy, any lazy idle little loafer wants flogging. Every day. Every day.
——你们都去干活吧，学习长在门口喊道。多兰神父每天都会来看看是否有哪个男孩、哪个懒惰的小浪子想要鞭打。每天。每天。

The door closed behind him.
门在他身后关上了。

The hushed class continued to copy out the themes. Father Arnall rose from his seat and went among them, helping the boys with gentle words and telling them the mistakes they had made. His voice was very gentle and soft. Then he returned to his seat and said to Fleming and Stephen:
安静的班级继续抄写主题。阿纳尔神父从座位上站起来，走进他们中间，用温柔的话语帮助孩子们，并告诉他们所犯的错误。他的声音非常温柔。然后他回到座位上，对弗莱明和斯蒂芬说道：

—You may return to your places, you two.
——你们两个可以回到各自的地方了。

Fleming and Stephen rose and, walking to their seats, sat down. Stephen, scarlet with shame, opened a book quickly with one weak hand and bent down upon it, his face close to the page.
弗莱明和斯蒂芬站起来，走到座位上坐下。斯蒂芬羞得满脸通红，用一只虚弱的手迅速打开一本书，弯下腰，脸贴近书页。

It was unfair and cruel because the doctor had told him not to read without glasses and he had written home to his father that morning to send him a new pair. And Father Arnall had said that he need not study till the new glasses came. Then to be called a schemer before the class and to be pandied when he always got the card for first or second and was the leader of the Yorkists! How could the prefect of studies know that it was a trick? He felt the touch of the prefect’s fingers as they had steadied his hand and at first he had thought he was going to shake hands with him because the fingers were soft and firm: but then in an instant he had heard the swish of the soutane sleeve and the crash. It was cruel and unfair to make him kneel in the middle of the class then: and Father Arnall had told them both that they might return to their places without making any difference between them. He listened to Father Arnall’s low and gentle voice as he corrected the themes. Perhaps he was sorry now and wanted to be decent. But it was unfair and cruel. The prefect of studies was a priest but that was cruel and unfair. And his white-grey face and the no-coloured eyes behind the steel-rimmed spectacles were cruel looking because he had steadied the hand first with his firm soft fingers and that was to hit it better and louder.
这是不公平和残酷的，因为医生告诉他不要不戴眼镜看书，而且那天早上他写信回家给父亲寄了一副新眼镜。阿纳尔神父说过，在新眼镜到来之前他不需要学习。然后，当他总是获得第一或第二名并且是约克派的领袖时，他在全班上被称为阴谋家，并受到批评！学长怎么会知道这是一个诡计呢？当级长的手指稳定了他的手时，他感觉到了级长的手指的触碰，起初他以为他要和他握手，因为手指柔软而坚定：但紧接着他听到了苏坦袖子的嗖嗖声。和崩溃。那时让他跪在班级中间是残酷和不公平的：阿纳尔神父告诉他们俩，他们可以回到原来的位置，而不会造成任何区别。他听着阿纳尔神父低沉温柔的声音纠正着主题。也许他现在很抱歉，想要做个正派的人。但这是不公平和残酷的。学习长是一位牧师，但这既残酷又不公平。而他那张白灰色的脸和钢框眼镜后面那双没有颜色的眼睛看起来很残酷，因为他先用坚韧柔软的手指稳住了手，这样击打得更好、更大声。

—It’s a stinking mean thing, that’s what it is, said Fleming in the corridor as the classes were passing out in file to the refectory, to pandy a fellow for what is not his fault.
——这是一件令人发指的卑鄙事，就是这样，弗莱明在走廊里说，当时全班同学都在排队去食堂，为了一个不属于他的过错的人而去讨好他。

—You really broke your glasses by accident, didn’t you? Nasty Roche asked.
——你的眼镜真的是不小心摔坏了，不是吗？讨厌的罗什问道。

Stephen felt his heart filled by Fleming’s words and did not answer.
史蒂芬的心被弗莱明的话填满了，没有回答。

—Of course he did! said Fleming. I wouldn’t stand it. I’d go up and tell the rector on him.
——他当然知道了！弗莱明说。我无法忍受。我会上去告诉校长他的情况。

—Yes, said Cecil Thunder eagerly, and I saw him lift the pandy-bat over his shoulder and he’s not allowed to do that.
——是的，塞西尔·雷霆急切地说，我看到他把小球棒举过肩，但他不被允许这样做。

—Did they hurt you much? Nasty Roche asked.
——他们伤害你很深吗？讨厌的罗什问道。

—Very much, Stephen said.
——非常喜欢，史蒂芬说。

—I wouldn’t stand it, Fleming repeated, from Baldyhead or any other Baldyhead. It’s a stinking mean low trick, that’s what it is. I’d go straight up to the rector and tell him about it after dinner.
——我无法忍受，弗莱明重复道，来自秃头或任何其他秃头。这是一个卑鄙卑鄙的伎俩，就是这样。晚饭后我会直接去找校长并告诉他这件事。

—Yes, do. Yes, do, said Cecil Thunder.
-是的。是的，是的，塞西尔雷霆说。

—Yes, do. Yes, go up and tell the rector on him, Dedalus, said Nasty Roche, because he said that he’d come in tomorrow again and pandy you.
-是的。是的，上去告诉校长他的事，迪达勒斯，讨厌的罗什说，因为他说他明天会再来找你。

—Yes, yes. Tell the rector, all said.
-是的是的。告诉校长，大家都说。

And there were some fellows out of second of grammar listening and one of them said:
有一些语法听力第二级的人，其中一个说：

—The senate and the Roman people declared that Dedalus had been wrongly punished.
——元老院和罗马人民宣布迪达勒斯受到了错误的惩罚。

It was wrong; it was unfair and cruel; and, as he sat in the refectory, he suffered time after time in memory the same humiliation until he began to wonder whether it might not really be that there was something in his face which made him look like a schemer and he wished he had a little mirror to see. But there could not be; and it was unjust and cruel and unfair.
那是错的;这是不公平和残酷的；当他坐在餐厅里时，他在记忆中一次又一次地遭受同样的羞辱，直到他开始怀疑是否真的有什么东西在他的脸上让他看起来像个阴谋家，他希望自己有一个小镜子可以看到。但不可能有；这是不公正、残酷和不公平的。

He could not eat the blackish fish fritters they got on Wednesdays in lent and one of his potatoes had the mark of the spade in it. Yes, he would do what the fellows had told him. He would go up and tell the rector that he had been wrongly punished. A thing like that had been done before by somebody in history, by some great person whose head was in the books of history. And the rector would declare that he had been wrongly punished because the senate and the Roman people always declared that the men who did that had been wrongly punished. Those were the great men whose names were in Richmal Magnall’s Questions. History was all about those men and what they did and that was what Peter Parley’s Tales about Greece and Rome were all about. Peter Parley himself was on the first page in a picture. There was a road over a heath with grass at the side and little bushes: and Peter Parley had a broad hat like a protestant minister and a big stick and he was walking fast along the road to Greece and Rome.
他不能吃周三四旬斋里吃的黑鱼油条，他的一个土豆上有铁锹的痕迹。是的，他会按照同事们告诉他的去做。他会上去告诉校长他受到了错误的惩罚。历史上的某个人、某个载入史册的伟人曾经做过这样的事。教区长会宣称他受到了错误的惩罚，因为元老院和罗马人民总是宣称这样做的人受到了错误的惩罚。这些伟人的名字都出现在里奇马尔·麦格纳尔的《问题》中。历史就是关于这些人和他们所做的事情，这就是彼得·帕利关于希腊和罗马的故事的全部内容。彼得·帕利本人出现在照片的第一页上。荒原上有一条路，路边长着青草，还有一些小灌木丛：彼得·帕利戴着一顶像新教牧师一样的宽帽子，拿着一根大手杖，沿着通往希腊和罗马的路快步走着。

It was easy what he had to do. All he had to do was when the dinner was over and he came out in his turn to go on walking but not out to the corridor but up the staircase on the right that led to the castle. He had nothing to do but that: to turn to the right and walk fast up the staircase and in half a minute he would be in the low dark narrow corridor that led through the castle to the rector’s room. And every fellow had said that it was unfair, even the fellow out of second of grammar who had said that about the senate and the Roman people.
他要做的事情很简单。他所要做的就是当晚餐结束后，轮到他出来继续散步，但不是走到走廊上，而是爬上通往城堡的右侧楼梯。他无事可做，只能这么做：向右转，快步走上楼梯，半分钟后，他就会来到一条低矮、黑暗、狭窄的走廊，穿过城堡，到达教区长的房间。每个人都说这是不公平的，甚至连那个对元老院和罗马人民说过这样话的二年级学生也是如此。

What would happen?
会发生什么？

He heard the fellows of the higher line stand up at the top of the refectory and heard their steps as they came down the matting: Paddy Rath and Jimmy Magee and the Spaniard and the Portuguese and the fifth was big Corrigan who was going to be flogged by Mr Gleeson. That was why the prefect of studies had called him a schemer and pandied him for nothing: and, straining his weak eyes, tired with the tears, he watched big Corrigan’s broad shoulders and big hanging black head passing in the file. But he had done something and besides Mr Gleeson would not flog him hard: and he remembered how big Corrigan looked in the bath. He had skin the same colour as the turf-coloured bogwater in the shallow end of the bath and when he walked along the side his feet slapped loudly on the wet tiles and at every step his thighs shook a little because he was fat.
他听到高位的人站在食堂顶上，听到他们走下席子时的脚步声：帕迪·拉斯、吉米·马吉、西班牙人和葡萄牙人，第五个是即将被鞭打的大块头科里根。格里森先生所著。这就是为什么研究长官称他为阴谋家，并无缘无故地嘲笑他：他睁大着疲倦的、疲倦的眼睛，看着高大的科里根宽阔的肩膀和下垂的黑色大脑袋在档案中经过。但他已经做了一些事情，而且格里森先生不会狠狠地鞭打他：他还记得科里根在浴缸里看起来有多么大。他的皮肤颜色和浴池浅处草皮色的沼泽水一样，当他沿着池边走的时候，他的脚在湿漉漉的瓷砖上大声地拍打着，每走一步，他的大腿都会因为肥胖而微微颤抖。

The refectory was half empty and the fellows were still passing out in file. He could go up the staircase because there was never a priest or a prefect outside the refectory door. But he could not go. The rector would side with the prefect of studies and think it was a schoolboy trick and then the prefect of studies would come in every day the same, only it would be worse because he would be dreadfully waxy at any fellow going up to the rector about him. The fellows had told him to go but they would not go themselves. They had forgotten all about it. No, it was best to forget all about it and perhaps the prefect of studies had only said he would come in. No, it was best to hide out of the way because when you were small and young you could often escape that way.
食堂里已经空了一半，伙计们仍然排成一排昏倒在地。他可以走上楼梯，因为食堂门外从来没有牧师或级长。但他不能去。校长会站在学习长的一边，认为这是一个小学生的把戏，然后学习长每天都会进来，只是情况会更糟，因为他会对任何向校长提出问题的人表现得可怕。他。那些家伙叫他去，但他们自己不肯去。他们已经忘记了这一切。不，最好把这一切都忘掉，也许学习长只是说他会进来。不，最好躲起来，因为当你还小、年轻的时候，你经常可以从那里逃脱。

The fellows at his table stood up. He stood up and passed out among them in the file. He had to decide. He was coming near the door. If he went on with the fellows he could never go up to the rector because he could not leave the playground for that. And if he went and was pandied all the same all the fellows would make fun and talk about young Dedalus going up to the rector to tell on the prefect of studies.
同桌的人都站了起来。他站起来，昏倒在档案中的他们中间。他必须做出决定。他正靠近门。如果他继续和其他人在一起，他就永远无法去见校长，因为他不能为此离开操场。即使他去了并受到了批评，所有的人都会取笑并谈论年轻的德达勒斯去校长那里告发学习长。

He was walking down along the matting and he saw the door before him. It was impossible: he could not. He thought of the baldy head of the prefect of studies with the cruel no-coloured eyes looking at him and he heard the voice of the prefect of studies asking him twice what his name was. Why could he not remember the name when he was told the first time? Was he not listening the first time or was it to make fun out of the name? The great men in the history had names like that and nobody made fun of them. It was his own name that he should have made fun of if he wanted to make fun. Dolan: it was like the name of a woman who washed clothes.
他沿着席子走下去，看到了面前的门。这是不可能的：他不能。他想起了学长的秃头，用那双残忍的无色眼睛看着他，他听到学长的声音两次问他叫什么名字。为什么第一次告诉他这个名字的时候他就记不住了？是他第一次没听清，还是为了取笑这个名字？历史上的伟人都有这样的名字，没有人取笑他们。如果他想取笑的话，就应该取笑他自己的名字。多兰：就像一个洗衣服的女人的名字。

He had reached the door and, turning quickly up to the right, walked up the stairs and, before he could make up his mind to come back, he had entered the low dark narrow corridor that led to the castle. And as he crossed the threshold of the door of the corridor he saw, without turning his head to look, that all the fellows were looking after him as they went filing by.
他已经到了门口，迅速向右转，走上楼梯，在他下定决心回来之前，他已经进入了通向城堡的低矮黑暗狭窄的走廊。当他跨过走廊的门槛时，他不用回头看，就看到所有的人都在看着他，鱼贯而过。

He passed along the narrow dark corridor, passing little doors that were the doors of the rooms of the community. He peered in front of him and right and left through the gloom and thought that those must be portraits. It was dark and silent and his eyes were weak and tired with tears so that he could not see. But he thought they were the portraits of the saints and great men of the order who were looking down on him silently as he passed: saint Ignatius Loyola holding an open book and pointing to the words AD MAJOREM DEI GLORIAM in it; saint Francis Xavier pointing to his chest; Lorenzo Ricci with his berretta on his head like one of the prefects of the lines, the three patrons of holy youth—saint Stanislaus Kostka, saint Aloysius Gonzago, and Blessed John Berchmans, all with young faces because they died when they were young, and Father Peter Kenny sitting in a chair wrapped in a big cloak.
他穿过狭窄黑暗的走廊，经过小门，那是小区房间的门。他透过昏暗的光线向前方左右张望，心想那肯定是肖像画。周围漆黑一片，寂静无声，他的眼睛因泪水而变得虚弱、疲倦，所以他什么也看不见。但他认为这些是圣人和教派伟人的肖像，当他经过时，他们默默地俯视着他：圣伊格内修斯·洛约拉拿着一本打开的书，指着里面的“AD MAJOREM DEI GLORIAM”字样；圣方济各泽维尔指着自己的胸口；洛伦佐·里奇（Lorenzo Ricci）头上戴着贝雷塔帽，就像是线中的长官之一，神圣青春的三位守护神——圣斯坦尼斯劳斯·科斯特卡（Stanislaus Kostka）、圣阿洛伊修斯·贡扎戈（Aloysius Gonzago）和真福约翰·伯希曼斯（Blessed John Berchmans），他们都拥有年轻的面孔，因为他们年轻时就去世了，彼得·肯尼神父裹着一件大斗篷坐在椅子上。

He came out on the landing above the entrance hall and looked about him. That was where Hamilton Rowan had passed and the marks of the soldiers’ slugs were there. And it was there that the old servants had seen the ghost in the white cloak of a marshal.
他来到门厅上方的平台上，环顾四周。那是汉密尔顿·罗文经过的地方，那里有士兵的鼻涕虫痕迹。正是在那里，老仆人们看到了身穿元帅白斗篷的鬼魂。

An old servant was sweeping at the end of the landing. He asked him where was the rector’s room and the old servant pointed to the door at the far end and looked after him as he went on to it and knocked.
一个老仆人正在楼梯平台的尽头打扫卫生。他问他校长的房间在哪里，老仆人指着远处的门，看着他，然后走向门，敲了敲门。

There was no answer. He knocked again more loudly and his heart jumped when he heard a muffled voice say:
没有人回答。他又敲得更大声，听到一个低沉的声音说道：

—Come in!
-进来！

He turned the handle and opened the door and fumbled for the handle of the green baize door inside. He found it and pushed it open and went in.
他转动把手，打开门，摸索着里面绿色呢子门的把手。他发现了它，推开它，走了进去。

He saw the rector sitting at a desk writing. There was a skull on the desk and a strange solemn smell in the room like the old leather of chairs.
他看到校长坐在书桌前写字。桌子上有一个头骨，房间里有一种奇怪的庄严气味，就像椅子的旧皮革一样。

His heart was beating fast on account of the solemn place he was in and the silence of the room: and he looked at the skull and at the rector’s kind-looking face.
由于他所在的地方庄严肃穆，房间里一片寂静，他的心跳得很快：他看着头骨，看着院长慈祥的脸。

—Well, my little man, said the rector, what is it?
——嗯，我的小个子，校长说，这是什么？

Stephen swallowed down the thing in his throat and said:
史蒂芬咽下喉咙里的东西，说道：

—I broke my glasses, sir.
——我打破了我的眼镜，先生。

The rector opened his mouth and said:
院长张开嘴说道：

—O!
——噢！

Then he smiled and said:
然后他微笑着说道：

—Well, if we broke our glasses we must write home for a new pair.
——好吧，如果我们打破了眼镜，我们就必须写信回家换一副新的。

—I wrote home, sir, said Stephen, and Father Arnall said I am not to study till they come.
——我写信回家了，先生，史蒂芬说，阿纳尔神父说他们来之前我不能学习。

—Quite right! said the rector.
-完全正确！校长说。

Stephen swallowed down the thing again and tried to keep his legs and his voice from shaking.
史蒂芬再次吞下那东西，试图让他的腿和声音不发抖。

—But, sir—
——但是，先生——

—Yes?
-是的？

—Father Dolan came in today and pandied me because I was not writing my theme.
——多兰神父今天进来批评我，因为我没有写我的主题。

The rector looked at him in silence and he could feel the blood rising to his face and the tears about to rise to his eyes.
教区长默默地看着他，他能感觉到血涌上了他的脸，泪水即将涌上眼眶。

The rector said:
校长说：

—Your name is Dedalus, isn’t it?
——你的名字叫迪达勒斯，是吗？

—Yes, sir...
-是的先生...

—And where did you break your glasses?
——你的眼镜在哪里打碎了？

—On the cinder-path, sir. A fellow was coming out of the bicycle house and I fell and they got broken. I don’t know the fellow’s name.
——在煤渣路上，先生。一个人从自行车房里出来，我摔倒了，自行车也摔坏了。我不知道那人的名字。

The rector looked at him again in silence. Then he smiled and said:
校长再次沉默地看着他。然后他微笑着说道：

—O, well, it was a mistake; I am sure Father Dolan did not know.
——噢，好吧，这是一个错误；我确信多兰神父不知道。

—But I told him I broke them, sir, and he pandied me.
——但是我告诉他我弄坏了它们，先生，他就批评了我。

—Did you tell him that you had written home for a new pair? the rector asked.
——你告诉他你已经写信回家要一双新鞋了吗？校长问道。

—No, sir.
-不，先生。

—O well then, said the rector, Father Dolan did not understand. You can say that I excuse you from your lessons for a few days.
——那么，校长说，多兰神父不明白。你可以说我请你休几天课。

Stephen said quickly for fear his trembling would prevent him:
斯蒂芬担心自己的颤抖会阻止他，所以很快说道：

—Yes, sir, but Father Dolan said he will come in tomorrow to pandy me again for it.
——是的，先生，但是多兰神父说他明天会再次来讨我的欢心。

—Very well, the rector said, it is a mistake and I shall speak to Father Dolan myself. Will that do now?
——很好，校长说，这是一个错误，我会亲自去跟多兰神父谈谈。现在可以吗？

Stephen felt the tears wetting his eyes and murmured:
斯蒂芬感到泪水湿润了他的眼睛，低声说道：

—O yes sir, thanks.
——噢，是的，先生，谢谢。

The rector held his hand across the side of the desk where the skull was and Stephen, placing his hand in it for a moment, felt a cool moist palm.
教区长把手放在头骨所在的桌子一侧，史蒂芬将手放在里面片刻，感觉到了凉爽湿润的手掌。

—Good day now, said the rector, withdrawing his hand and bowing.
——今天好，校长说着，抽回了手，鞠了一躬。

—Good day, sir, said Stephen.
——美好的一天，先生，斯蒂芬说。

He bowed and walked quietly out of the room, closing the doors carefully and slowly.
他鞠了一躬，悄悄走出房间，小心翼翼地、缓慢地关上门。

But when he had passed the old servant on the landing and was again in the low narrow dark corridor he began to walk faster and faster. Faster and faster he hurried on through the gloom excitedly. He bumped his elbow against the door at the end and, hurrying down the staircase, walked quickly through the two corridors and out into the air.
但当他在楼梯平台上经过老仆人，再次进入低矮、狭窄、黑暗的走廊时，他开始走得越来越快。他兴奋地越走越快，穿过黑暗。他的手肘撞到了尽头的门，然后快步走下楼梯，快步穿过两条走廊，来到空中。

He could hear the cries of the fellows on the playgrounds. He broke into a run and, running quicker and quicker, ran across the cinderpath and reached the third line playground, panting.
他能听到操场上同学们的叫喊声。他拔腿就跑，越跑越快，气喘吁吁地穿过煤渣路，来到了三线操场。

The fellows had seen him running. They closed round him in a ring, pushing one against another to hear.
同伴们看见他奔跑。他们围成一圈，将他围成一圈，一个人推着另一个人听。

—Tell us! Tell us!
-告诉我们！告诉我们！

—What did he say?
-他说什么？

—Did you go in?
——你进去了吗？

—What did he say?
-他说什么？

—Tell us! Tell us!
-告诉我们！告诉我们！

He told them what he had said and what the rector had said and, when he had told them, all the fellows flung their caps spinning up into the air and cried:
他告诉他们他所说的话和校长所说的话，当他告诉他们时，所有的人都把帽子抛向空中，大声喊道：

—Hurroo!
——哈罗！

They caught their caps and sent them up again spinning sky-high and cried again:
他们抓住帽子，再次把它们扔到高空，并再次喊道：

—Hurroo! Hurroo!
——哈罗！哈罗！

They made a cradle of their locked hands and hoisted him up among them and carried him along till he struggled to get free. And when he had escaped from them they broke away in all directions, flinging their caps again into the air and whistling as they went spinning up and crying:
他们用紧握的双手做了一个摇篮，把他举到他们中间，一直抱着他，直到他挣扎着挣脱。当他从他们身边逃脱后，他们四散奔逃，把帽子再次抛向空中，边旋转边吹口哨，哭喊着：

—Hurroo!
——哈罗！

And they gave three groans for Baldyhead Dolan and three cheers for Conmee and they said he was the decentest rector that was ever in Clongowes.
他们为秃头多兰发出三声呻吟，为康米欢呼三声，他们说他是克朗戈斯有史以来最正派的校长。

The cheers died away in the soft grey air. He was alone. He was happy and free; but he would not be anyway proud with Father Dolan. He would be very quiet and obedient: and he wished that he could do something kind for him to show him that he was not proud.
欢呼声在柔和的灰色空气中消失了。他独自一人。他快乐而自由；但无论如何，他不会为多兰神父感到骄傲。他会非常安静和听话：他希望能为他做点好事，让他知道他并不骄傲。

The air was soft and grey and mild and evening was coming. There was the smell of evening in the air, the smell of the fields in the country where they digged up turnips to peel them and eat them when they went out for a walk to Major Barton’s, the smell there was in the little wood beyond the pavilion where the gallnuts were.
空气柔和、灰暗、温和，傍晚即将来临。空气中弥漫着傍晚的味道，乡下田野里的味道，他们出去散步去巴顿少校家时，把萝卜挖出来剥皮吃，屋外的小树林里也有这种味道。五倍子所在的亭子。

The fellows were practising long shies and bowling lobs and slow twisters. In the soft grey silence he could hear the bump of the balls: and from here and from there through the quiet air the sound of the cricket bats: pick, pack, pock, puck: like drops of water in a fountain falling softly in the brimming bowl.
队员们正在练习长投球、高球和慢速绕球。在柔和的灰色寂静中，他能听到球的撞击声：从这里到那里，穿过安静的空气，板球拍的声音：挑选，打包，戳，冰球：就像喷泉中的水滴轻轻地落入水中。满溢的碗。

Chapter 2
第2章

Uncle Charles smoked such black twist that at last his nephew suggested to him to enjoy his morning smoke in a little outhouse at the end of the garden.
查尔斯叔叔抽的烟是如此的黑，以至于他的侄子最后建议他在花园尽头的一个小户外屋里享受早晨的烟。

—Very good, Simon. All serene, Simon, said the old man tranquilly. Anywhere you like. The outhouse will do me nicely: it will be more salubrious.
——很好，西蒙。一切都很平静，西蒙，老人平静地说。任何你喜欢的地方。户外厕所对我很有好处：它会更有益于健康。

—Damn me, said Mr Dedalus frankly, if I know how you can smoke such villainous awful tobacco. It’s like gunpowder, by God.
——该死的，迪达勒斯先生坦白地说，如果我知道你怎么能抽这种邪恶可怕的烟草。这就像火药一样，上帝啊。

—It’s very nice, Simon, replied the old man. Very cool and mollifying.
——非常好，西蒙，老人回答道。非常凉爽和舒缓。

Every morning, therefore, uncle Charles repaired to his outhouse but not before he had greased and brushed scrupulously his back hair and brushed and put on his tall hat. While he smoked the brim of his tall hat and the bowl of his pipe were just visible beyond the jambs of the outhouse door. His arbour, as he called the reeking outhouse which he shared with the cat and the garden tools, served him also as a sounding-box: and every morning he hummed contentedly one of his favourite songs: O, TWINE ME A BOWER or BLUE EYES AND GOLDEN HAIR or THE GROVES OF BLARNEY while the grey and blue coils of smoke rose slowly from his pipe and vanished in the pure air.
因此，每天早上，查尔斯叔叔都会去他的外屋，但在此之前，他都会仔细地涂上油脂，梳理好后背的头发，梳理好并戴上高帽子。当他抽烟时，他的高帽檐和烟斗的碗在外屋门框外隐约可见。他与猫和园艺工具共享的臭气熏天的户外屋被他称为凉亭，同时也为他提供了一个音箱：每天早上，他心满意足地哼着他最喜欢的一首歌曲：《O，TWINE ME A BOWER》或《BLUE EYES》还有《金色的头发》或《布拉尼的树林》，灰色和蓝色的烟雾从他的烟斗中缓缓升起，消失在纯净的空气中。

During the first part of the summer in Blackrock uncle Charles was Stephen’s constant companion. Uncle Charles was a hale old man with a well tanned skin, rugged features and white side whiskers. On week days he did messages between the house in Carysfort Avenue and those shops in the main street of the town with which the family dealt. Stephen was glad to go with him on these errands for uncle Charles helped him very liberally to handfuls of whatever was exposed in open boxes and barrels outside the counter. He would seize a handful of grapes and sawdust or three or four American apples and thrust them generously into his grandnephew’s hand while the shopman smiled uneasily; and, on Stephen’s feigning reluctance to take them, he would frown and say:
在黑石的初夏，查尔斯叔叔一直是斯蒂芬的陪伴。查尔斯叔叔是一位精神矍铄的老人，皮肤晒得黝黑，五官粗犷，两旁胡须泛白。工作日，他在卡里斯福特大道的房子和镇上主要街道上与这家人打交道的商店之间传递信息。斯蒂芬很高兴和他一起去办这些差事，因为查尔斯叔叔非常慷慨地帮助他拿了柜台外打开的盒子和桶中暴露的任何东西。他会抓起一把葡萄和锯末，或者三四个美国苹果，慷慨地塞到他侄孙的手里，而店主则不安地微笑着；当斯蒂芬假装不愿意接受它们时，他会皱着眉头说：

—Take them, sir. Do you hear me, sir? They’re good for your bowels.
——带上它们吧，先生。你听到我说话了吗，先生？它们对你的肠道有好处。

When the order list had been booked the two would go on to the park where an old friend of Stephen’s father, Mike Flynn, would be found seated on a bench, waiting for them. Then would begin Stephen’s run round the park. Mike Flynn would stand at the gate near the railway station, watch in hand, while Stephen ran round the track in the style Mike Flynn favoured, his head high lifted, his knees well lifted and his hands held straight down by his sides. When the morning practice was over the trainer would make his comments and sometimes illustrate them by shuffling along for a yard or so comically in an old pair of blue canvas shoes. A small ring of wonderstruck children and nursemaids would gather to watch him and linger even when he and uncle Charles had sat down again and were talking athletics and politics. Though he had heard his father say that Mike Flynn had put some of the best runners of modern times through his hands Stephen often glanced at his trainer’s flabby stubble-covered face, as it bent over the long stained fingers through which he rolled his cigarette, and with pity at the mild lustreless blue eyes which would look up suddenly from the task and gaze vaguely into the blue distance while the long swollen fingers ceased their rolling and grains and fibres of tobacco fell back into the pouch.
订完订单后，两人会前往公园，斯蒂芬父亲的一位老朋友迈克·弗林（Mike Flynn）坐在长凳上等待他们。然后斯蒂芬就开始绕公园跑步。迈克·弗林会站在火车站附近的门口，手里拿着手表，而斯蒂芬则以迈克·弗林喜欢的方式绕着铁轨跑，他的头高高地抬起，膝盖抬起来，双手伸直放在身体两侧。早上的训练结束后，教练会发表自己的评论，有时还会穿着一双旧蓝色帆布鞋滑稽地拖着脚步走一码左右来说明。即使当他和查尔斯叔叔再次坐下来谈论体育和政治时，一小群惊讶的孩子和保姆也会聚集在一起观看他并逗留。尽管他听他父亲说过，迈克·弗林通过他的双手培养了一些现代最好的跑步者，但斯蒂芬经常瞥见他的教练那张布满胡茬的松弛脸，当他弯下身子，看着他卷烟的长而沾满污迹的手指时，怜悯地看着那双温和、无光泽的蓝眼睛，它们会突然从任务中抬起头来，模糊地凝视着蓝色的远方，而长长的、肿胀的手指停止滚动，烟草颗粒和纤维又落回烟袋里。

On the way home uncle Charles would often pay a visit to the chapel and, as the font was above Stephen’s reach, the old man would dip his hand and then sprinkle the water briskly about Stephen’s clothes and on the floor of the porch. While he prayed he knelt on his red handkerchief and read above his breath from a thumb blackened prayer book wherein catchwords were printed at the foot of every page. Stephen knelt at his side respecting, though he did not share, his piety. He often wondered what his grand-uncle prayed for so seriously. Perhaps he prayed for the souls in purgatory or for the grace of a happy death or perhaps he prayed that God might send him back a part of the big fortune he had squandered in Cork.
在回家的路上，查尔斯叔叔经常去教堂，由于圣水盆在斯蒂芬够不着的地方，老人会用手蘸一下，然后轻快地把水洒在斯蒂芬的衣服上和门廊的地板上。当他祈祷的时候，他跪在他的红手帕上，屏息以待地读一本拇指发黑的祈祷书，其中每一页的底部都印有流行语。斯蒂芬跪在他身边，尊重他的虔诚，尽管他并不认同。他常常想，他的叔公如此认真地祈求什么？也许他为炼狱中的灵魂祈祷，或者为幸福死亡的恩典祈祷，或者也许他祈祷上帝能让他归还他在科克挥霍的巨额财富的一部分。

On Sundays Stephen with his father and his grand-uncle took their constitutional. The old man was a nimble walker in spite of his corns and often ten or twelve miles of the road were covered. The little village of Stillorgan was the parting of the ways. Either they went to the left towards the Dublin mountains or along the Goatstown road and thence into Dundrum, coming home by Sandyford. Trudging along the road or standing in some grimy wayside public house his elders spoke constantly of the subjects nearer their hearts, of Irish politics, of Munster and of the legends of their own family, to all of which Stephen lent an avid ear. Words which he did not understand he said over and over to himself till he had learnt them by heart: and through them he had glimpses of the real world about them. The hour when he too would take part in the life of that world seemed drawing near and in secret he began to make ready for the great part which he felt awaited him the nature of which he only dimly apprehended.
每个星期天，斯蒂芬都会与他的父亲和叔祖父一起参加宪法会议。尽管长着鸡眼，老人走路还是很敏捷，经常走十到十二英里的路。斯蒂尔根小村庄是分道扬镳。他们要么向左走，前往都柏林山脉，要么沿着山羊镇路，从那里进入邓德拉姆，经桑迪福德回家。沿着大路艰难跋涉，或者站在某个肮脏的路边酒馆里，他的长辈们不断地谈论他们最关心的话题，爱尔兰政治、明斯特和他们自己家族的传奇，所有这些斯蒂芬都热心倾听。他不明白的话语他一遍又一遍地自言自语，直到他把它们牢记在心：通过它们，他瞥见了关于它们的真实世界。他也将参与那个世界的生活的时刻似乎已经临近，他开始秘密地为他觉得等待着他的伟大部分做好准备，而他只是模糊地理解了它的本质。

His evenings were his own; and he pored over a ragged translation of THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. The figure of that dark avenger stood forth in his mind for whatever he had heard or divined in childhood of the strange and terrible. At night he built up on the parlour table an image of the wonderful island cave out of transfers and paper flowers and coloured tissue paper and strips of the silver and golden paper in which chocolate is wrapped. When he had broken up this scenery, weary of its tinsel, there would come to his mind the bright picture of Marseille, of sunny trellises, and of Mercedes.
他的夜晚是属于他自己的。他仔细阅读了一本褴褛的译本《基督山伯爵》。无论他在童年时听到或预言过什么奇怪而可怕的事情，那个黑暗复仇者的身影都在他的脑海中浮现。晚上，他用转印纸、纸花、彩色薄纸以及包裹巧克力的银色和金色纸条在客厅的桌子上制作了一幅奇妙的岛屿洞穴的图像。当他厌倦了它的金属箔而分解了这幅风景时，他的脑海中就会浮现出马赛、阳光明媚的棚架和梅赛德斯的明亮画面。

Outside Blackrock, on the road that led to the mountains, stood a small whitewashed house in the garden of which grew many rosebushes: and in this house, he told himself, another Mercedes lived. Both on the outward and on the homeward journey he measured distance by this landmark: and in his imagination he lived through a long train of adventures, marvellous as those in the book itself, towards the close of which there appeared an image of himself, grown older and sadder, standing in a moonlit garden with Mercedes who had so many years before slighted his love, and with a sadly proud gesture of refusal, saying:
黑石城外，通往山脉的路上，矗立着一座粉刷成白色的小房子，花园里种着许多玫瑰花丛：他告诉自己，在这所房子里，住着另一位梅赛德斯。无论是在出发还是在回家的路上，他都通过这个地标测量距离：在他的想象中，他经历了一连串的冒险，就像书中本身一样奇妙，在冒险的最后，出现了一个他自己的形象，成长了。年纪更大了，更加悲伤了，和梅赛德斯一起站在月光下的花园里，梅赛德斯在很多年前轻视了他的爱，并以一种悲伤而自豪的拒绝姿态说道：

—Madam, I never eat muscatel grapes.
——女士，我从不吃麝香葡萄。

He became the ally of a boy named Aubrey Mills and founded with him a gang of adventurers in the avenue. Aubrey carried a whistle dangling from his buttonhole and a bicycle lamp attached to his belt while the others had short sticks thrust daggerwise through theirs. Stephen, who had read of Napoleon’s plain style of dress, chose to remain unadorned and thereby heightened for himself the pleasure of taking counsel with his lieutenant before giving orders. The gang made forays into the gardens of old maids or went down to the castle and fought a battle on the shaggy weed-grown rocks, coming home after it weary stragglers with the stale odours of the foreshore in their nostrils and the rank oils of the seawrack upon their hands and in their hair.
他成为了一个名叫奥布里·米尔斯的男孩的盟友，并与他一起在大街上成立了一群冒险家。奥布里的扣眼上挂着一个哨子，腰带上系着一盏自行车灯，而其他人的短棍则像匕首一样插在身上。斯蒂芬读过拿破仑朴素的着装风格，选择保持朴素，从而增加了自己在下达命令之前与副官商议的乐趣。这帮人闯入了老处女的花园，或者下到城堡，在长满杂草的岩石上打了一场仗，在战斗结束后，疲惫不堪的散兵游勇回家，鼻孔里充满了前滩的陈腐气味和臭气熏天的油污。他们的手上和头发上都有海残。

Aubrey and Stephen had a common milkman and often they drove out in the milk-car to Carrickmines where the cows were at grass. While the men were milking the boys would take turns in riding the tractable mare round the field. But when autumn came the cows were driven home from the grass: and the first sight of the filthy cowyard at Stradbrook with its foul green puddles and clots of liquid dung and steaming bran troughs, sickened Stephen’s heart. The cattle which had seemed so beautiful in the country on sunny days revolted him and he could not even look at the milk they yielded.
奥布里和斯蒂芬有一个共同的送奶工，他们经常开着送奶车去卡里克矿，那里的奶牛正在吃草。当男人们挤奶的时候，男孩们会轮流骑着驯良的母马绕着田野转。但到了秋天，奶牛被从草地上赶回家：第一眼看到斯特拉布鲁克肮脏的牛场，那里有肮脏的绿色水坑、液体粪便凝块和热气腾腾的麸槽，斯蒂芬的心感到恶心。阳光明媚的日子里，乡村里的牛看起来那么美丽，但他却感到厌恶，甚至不敢看它们产出的牛奶。

The coming of September did not trouble him this year for he was not to be sent back to Clongowes. The practice in the park came to an end when Mike Flynn went into hospital. Aubrey was at school and had only an hour or two free in the evening. The gang fell asunder and there were no more nightly forays or battles on the rocks. Stephen sometimes went round with the car which delivered the evening milk and these chilly drives blew away his memory of the filth of the cowyard and he felt no repugnance at seeing the cow hairs and hayseeds on the milkman’s coat. Whenever the car drew up before a house he waited to catch a glimpse of a well scrubbed kitchen or of a softly lighted hall and to see how the servant would hold the jug and how she would close the door. He thought it should be a pleasant life enough, driving along the roads every evening to deliver milk, if he had warm gloves and a fat bag of gingernuts in his pocket to eat from. But the same foreknowledge which had sickened his heart and made his legs sag suddenly as he raced round the park, the same intuition which had made him glance with mistrust at his trainer’s flabby stubble-covered face as it bent heavily over his long stained fingers, dissipated any vision of the future. In a vague way he understood that his father was in trouble and that this was the reason why he himself had not been sent back to Clongowes. For some time he had felt the slight change in his house; and those changes in what he had deemed unchangeable were so many slight shocks to his boyish conception of the world. The ambition which he felt astir at times in the darkness of his soul sought no outlet. A dusk like that of the outer world obscured his mind as he heard the mare’s hoofs clattering along the tramtrack on the Rock Road and the great can swaying and rattling behind him.
今年九月的到来并没有给他带来麻烦，因为他不会被送回克朗戈斯。当迈克·弗林入院时，公园里的训练就结束了。奥布里在学校，晚上只有一两个小时的空闲时间。帮派土崩瓦解，不再有夜间袭击或岩石上的战斗。斯蒂芬有时会开着送晚间牛奶的车到处走，这些寒冷的驾驶方式把他对牛场肮脏的记忆一扫而空，看到送奶工外套上的牛毛和干草籽，他并不感到反感。每当汽车停在一栋房子前时，他都会等着看一眼擦洗得很干净的厨房或灯光柔和的大厅，看看仆人如何拿着水壶，如何关上门。他认为，如果他有温暖的手套，口袋里装着一大袋姜坚果可以吃的话，每天晚上开车沿着马路送牛奶，这应该是一种愉快的生活。但正是同样的预感，让他在公园里奔跑时感到恶心，让他的双腿突然下垂；同样的直觉，让他怀疑地瞥了一眼训练师那张布满胡茬的松弛脸，那张脸沉重地弯下身子，压在他长长的、沾满污迹的手指上。消散了对未来的任何憧憬。他隐隐约约地明白，他的父亲遇到了麻烦，这就是他本人没有被送回克朗戈斯的原因。一段时间以来，他感觉到家里发生了轻微的变化。而那些他认为不可改变的事情的变化却对他孩子气的世界观造成了如此多的轻微冲击。他有时在灵魂的黑暗中感到的野心却找不到发泄的出口。 外部世界的黄昏笼罩了他的思绪，他听到母马的蹄子沿着岩石路的电车轨道发出咔哒声，巨大的罐头在他身后摇晃并嘎嘎作响。

He returned to Mercedes and, as he brooded upon her image, a strange unrest crept into his blood. Sometimes a fever gathered within him and led him to rove alone in the evening along the quiet avenue. The peace of the gardens and the kindly lights in the windows poured a tender influence into his restless heart. The noise of children at play annoyed him and their silly voices made him feel, even more keenly than he had felt at Clongowes, that he was different from others. He did not want to play. He wanted to meet in the real world the unsubstantial image which his soul so constantly beheld. He did not know where to seek it or how, but a premonition which led him on told him that this image would, without any overt act of his, encounter him. They would meet quietly as if they had known each other and had made their tryst, perhaps at one of the gates or in some more secret place. They would be alone, surrounded by darkness and silence: and in that moment of supreme tenderness he would be transfigured.
他回到梅赛德斯，当他沉思于她的形象时，一种奇怪的不安悄悄渗入他的血液。有时他体内发烧，导致他在晚上独自沿着安静的大道漫步。花园里的宁静和窗户里柔和的灯光给他不安的心注入了温柔的影响。孩子们玩耍的噪音让他很恼火，他们愚蠢的声音让他比在克朗戈斯时更加强烈地感觉到自己与其他人不同。他不想玩。他想在现实世界中遇见他的灵魂不断看到的虚幻形象。他不知道去哪里寻找它，也不知道如何寻找它，但是一种预感告诉他，无需他任何明显的行动，这个图像就会遇到他。他们会安静地见面，就好像他们已经认识并幽会一样，也许是在某个大门或某个更秘密的地方。他们将是孤独的，被黑暗和寂静所包围：在那至高无上的温柔时刻，他会变形。

He would fade into something impalpable under her eyes and then in a moment he would be transfigured. Weakness and timidity and inexperience would fall from him in that magic moment.
他会在她的眼前消失成某种难以捉摸的东西，然后瞬间就变了样。在那神奇的时刻，软弱、胆怯和缺乏经验都会从他身上消失。

*****

Two great yellow caravans had halted one morning before the door and men had come tramping into the house to dismantle it. The furniture had been hustled out through the front garden which was strewn with wisps of straw and rope ends and into the huge vans at the gate. When all had been safely stowed the vans had set off noisily down the avenue: and from the window of the railway carriage, in which he had sat with his red-eyed mother, Stephen had seen them lumbering along the Merrion Road.
一天早上，两辆黄色的大篷车停在门前，人们大步走进房子来拆除它。家具被从散布着稻草和绳头的前花园运出去，装进门口的大货车里。当所有东西都安全地装好后，货车就沿着大道吵闹地出发了：史蒂芬和红眼睛的母亲坐在火车车厢的窗户上，从窗户里看到他们沿着梅林路缓慢地行驶。

The parlour fire would not draw that evening and Mr Dedalus rested the poker against the bars of the grate to attract the flame. Uncle Charles dozed in a corner of the half furnished uncarpeted room and near him the family portraits leaned against the wall. The lamp on the table shed a weak light over the boarded floor, muddied by the feet of the van-men. Stephen sat on a footstool beside his father listening to a long and incoherent monologue. He understood little or nothing of it at first but he became slowly aware that his father had enemies and that some fight was going to take place. He felt, too, that he was being enlisted for the fight, that some duty was being laid upon his shoulders. The sudden flight from the comfort and revery of Blackrock, the passage through the gloomy foggy city, the thought of the bare cheerless house in which they were now to live made his heart heavy, and again an intuition, a foreknowledge of the future came to him. He understood also why the servants had often whispered together in the hall and why his father had often stood on the hearthrug with his back to the fire, talking loudly to uncle Charles who urged him to sit down and eat his dinner.
那天晚上，客厅里的火没有着火，迪达勒斯先生把拨火棍靠在炉栅的栏杆上，以吸引火焰。查尔斯叔叔在房间的一个角落里打瞌睡，房间里只布置了一半，没有铺地毯，他附近的墙上挂着全家福。桌上的灯发出微弱的光，照在木板地板上，地板被货车人的脚弄得泥泞不堪。斯蒂芬坐在父亲旁边的脚凳上，听着一段冗长而语无伦次的独白。起初他对此知之甚少或一无所知，但他慢慢意识到他的父亲有敌人，并且即将发生一些战斗。他还感到自己被征召参加战斗，肩上承担了一些责任。突然逃离黑石的舒适和遐想，穿过阴暗的雾气城市，想到他们现在要住的那间光秃秃、冷清的房子，让他心情沉重，一种直觉，一种对未来的预知再次出现。他。他也明白为什么仆人们经常在大厅里窃窃私语，为什么他的父亲经常站在壁炉边的地毯上，背对着火，大声地和查尔斯叔叔说话，查尔斯叔叔催促他坐下来吃晚饭。

—There’s a crack of the whip left in me yet, Stephen, old chap, said Mr Dedalus, poking at the dull fire with fierce energy. We’re not dead yet, sonny. No, by the Lord Jesus (God forgive me) not half dead.
——我身上还剩下一根鞭子，斯蒂芬，老伙计，迪达勒斯先生说，用猛烈的能量戳着暗淡的火。我们还没死，儿子。不，靠主耶稣（上帝原谅我）起誓，我没有半死。

Dublin was a new and complex sensation. Uncle Charles had grown so witless that he could no longer be sent out on errands and the disorder in settling in the new house left Stephen freer than he had been in Blackrock. In the beginning he contented himself with circling timidly round the neighbouring square or, at most, going half way down one of the side streets but when he had made a skeleton map of the city in his mind he followed boldly one of its central lines until he reached the customhouse. He passed unchallenged among the docks and along the quays wondering at the multitude of corks that lay bobbing on the surface of the water in a thick yellow scum, at the crowds of quay porters and the rumbling carts and the ill-dressed bearded policeman. The vastness and strangeness of the life suggested to him by the bales of merchandise stocked along the walls or swung aloft out of the holds of steamers wakened again in him the unrest which had sent him wandering in the evening from garden to garden in search of Mercedes. And amid this new bustling life he might have fancied himself in another Marseille but that he missed the bright sky and the sum-warmed trellises of the wineshops. A vague dissatisfaction grew up within him as he looked on the quays and on the river and on the lowering skies and yet he continued to wander up and down day after day as if he really sought someone that eluded him.
都柏林是一种新的、复杂的感觉。查尔斯叔叔已经变得如此愚蠢，以至于他不能再被派出去办事，而在新房子里安顿下来的混乱让斯蒂芬比在黑石时更加自由。一开始，他满足于胆怯地绕着邻近的广场转一圈，或者最多沿着一条小街走一半，但当他在脑海中画出一幅城市的骨架图时，他大胆地沿着其中的一条中心线走，直到他到达了海关。他毫无疑问地穿过码头，沿着码头走来走去，惊讶地看着大量的软木塞，它们在水面上漂浮着一层厚厚的黄色浮渣，看着一群群码头搬运工、隆隆作响的马车和衣着破旧、留着胡子的警察。墙上堆满的货物或从轮船货舱里高高地吊出来的成捆货物所暗示的生活的广阔和陌生，再次唤醒了他内心的不安，这种不安让他在晚上从一个花园徘徊到另一个花园寻找梅赛德斯。在这种熙熙攘攘的新生活中，他可能会幻想自己身处另一个马赛，但他怀念明亮的天空和葡萄酒商店温暖的棚架。望着码头，望着河水，望着低垂的天空，他心里隐约升起一丝不满，但他仍日复一日地徘徊，仿佛他真的在寻找一个他无法企及的人。

He went once or twice with his mother to visit their relatives: and though they passed a jovial array of shops lit up and adorned for Christmas his mood of embittered silence did not leave him. The causes of his embitterment were many, remote and near. He was angry with himself for being young and the prey of restless foolish impulses, angry also with the change of fortune which was reshaping the world about him into a vision of squalor and insincerity. Yet his anger lent nothing to the vision. He chronicled with patience what he saw, detaching himself from it and tasting its mortifying flavour in secret.
他和母亲一起去过一两次探望亲戚：尽管他们经过了一系列灯火通明、装饰精美的圣诞节商店，但他的痛苦沉默情绪并没有消失。造成他痛苦的原因有很多，有远的，也有近的。他对自己年轻而受了不安的愚蠢冲动的折磨而感到愤怒，也对命运的改变感到愤怒，因为命运的改变正在将他周围的世界重塑为肮脏和不真诚的景象。然而他的愤怒并没有给这个愿景带来任何帮助。他耐心地记录下他所看到的一切，将自己抽离出来，秘密地品尝它令人难堪的味道。

He was sitting on the backless chair in his aunt’s kitchen. A lamp with a reflector hung on the japanned wall of the fireplace and by its light his aunt was reading the evening paper that lay on her knees. She looked a long time at a smiling picture that was set in it and said musingly:
他坐在姨妈厨房里的无靠背椅子上。壁炉的日本墙上挂着一盏带反光镜的灯，姨妈借着灯的光正在阅读放在膝盖上的晚报。她看着里面一张微笑的照片良久，若有所思地说：

—The beautiful Mabel Hunter!
——美丽的梅布尔·亨特！

A ringletted girl stood on tiptoe to peer at the picture and said softly:
一名卷发少女踮起脚尖看着照片，轻声说道：

—What is she in, mud?
——她在什么地方，泥巴？

—In a pantomime, love.
——在哑剧里，爱。

The child leaned her ringletted head against her mother’s sleeve, gazing on the picture, and murmured as if fascinated:
孩子把小卷发的头靠在母亲的袖子上，看着照片，着迷地低声说道：

—The beautiful Mabel Hunter!
——美丽的梅布尔·亨特！

As if fascinated, her eyes rested long upon those demurely taunting eyes and she murmured devotedly:
她的目光仿佛着了迷一般，久久地落在那双娴静嘲讽的眼睛上，虔诚地低声说道：

—Isn’t she an exquisite creature?
——她不是一个绝妙的生物吗？

And the boy who came in from the street, stamping crookedly under his stone of coal, heard her words. He dropped his load promptly on the floor and hurried to her side to see. He mauled the edges of the paper with his reddened and blackened hands, shouldering her aside and complaining that he could not see.
那个从街上进来的男孩在煤石下歪歪扭扭地跺着脚，听到了她的话。他迅速将手中的东西扔在地板上，然后急忙跑到她身边查看。他用又红又黑的手敲打着纸的边缘，把她推到一边，抱怨自己看不见。

He was sitting in the narrow breakfast room high up in the old dark-windowed house. The firelight flickered on the wall and beyond the window a spectral dusk was gathering upon the river. Before the fire an old woman was busy making tea and, as she bustled at the task, she told in a low voice of what the priest and the doctor had said. She told too of certain changes they had seen in her of late and of her odd ways and sayings. He sat listening to the words and following the ways of adventure that lay open in the coals, arches and vaults and winding galleries and jagged caverns.
他坐在那间黑窗老房子高处狭窄的早餐室里。火光在墙上闪烁，窗外河面上笼罩着幽灵般的黄昏。生火前，一位老妇人正忙着泡茶，一边忙着，一边低声讲述着神父和医生的话。她还讲述了他们最近在她身上看到的某些变化以及她奇怪的方式和言论。他坐着听着这些话语，追寻着在煤炭、拱门、拱顶、蜿蜒的画廊和锯齿状的洞穴中展开的冒险之路。

Suddenly he became aware of something in the doorway. A skull appeared suspended in the gloom of the doorway. A feeble creature like a monkey was there, drawn thither by the sound of voices at the fire. A whining voice came from the door asking:
突然，他意识到门口有什么东西。昏暗的门口出现了一个头骨。那里有一只像猴子一样虚弱的生物，被火边的声音吸引到了那里。门外传来一个哀怨的声音问道：

—Is that Josephine?
——那是约瑟芬吗？

The old bustling woman answered cheerily from the fireplace:
那个忙碌的老妇人在壁炉里高兴地回答：

—No, Ellen, it’s Stephen.
——不，艾伦，是斯蒂芬。

—O... O, good evening, Stephen.
——噢……噢，晚上好，斯蒂芬。

He answered the greeting and saw a silly smile break over the face in the doorway.
他回应了问候，看到门口露出了傻乎乎的笑容。

—Do you want anything, Ellen? asked the old woman at the fire.
——你想要什么吗，艾伦？火边的老妇人问道。

But she did not answer the question and said:
但她没有回答问题，而是说：

—I thought it was Josephine. I thought you were Josephine, Stephen.
——我以为是约瑟芬。我以为你是约瑟芬，斯蒂芬。

And, repeating this several times, she fell to laughing feebly.
重复了好几遍之后，她无力地笑了起来。

He was sitting in the midst of a children’s party at Harold’s Cross. His silent watchful manner had grown upon him and he took little part in the games. The children, wearing the spoils of their crackers, danced and romped noisily and, though he tried to share their merriment, he felt himself a gloomy figure amid the gay cocked hats and sunbonnets.
他正坐在哈罗德十字路口举行的儿童聚会上。他养成了沉默、警惕的态度，很少参加比赛。孩子们戴着饼干的战利品，大声地跳舞、嬉戏，尽管他试图分享他们的欢乐，但在色彩缤纷的三角帽和太阳帽中，他感到自己是一个阴郁的人物。

But when he had sung his song and withdrawn into a snug corner of the room he began to taste the joy of his loneliness. The mirth, which in the beginning of the evening had seemed to him false and trivial, was like a soothing air to him, passing gaily by his senses, hiding from other eyes the feverish agitation of his blood while through the circling of the dancers and amid the music and laughter her glance travelled to his corner, flattering, taunting, searching, exciting his heart.
但当他唱完歌，退到房间舒适的角落里时，他开始尝到孤独的乐趣。夜晚开始时，他觉得这种欢笑是假的、微不足道的，但对他来说，却像一股舒缓的空气，欢快地掠过他的感官，在舞者的盘旋和旋转中，掩盖了他血液的狂热躁动。在音乐和笑声中，她的目光扫向他的角落，奉承、嘲讽、探索、刺激他的心。

In the hall the children who had stayed latest were putting on their things: the party was over. She had thrown a shawl about her and, as they went together towards the tram, sprays of her fresh warm breath flew gaily above her cowled head and her shoes tapped blithely on the glassy road.
大厅里，最后留下来的孩子们正在穿衣服：聚会结束了。她披了一条围巾，当他们一起走向电车时，她新鲜温暖的呼吸在她戴着头巾的头上欢快地飞过，她的鞋子在玻璃路面上愉快地敲击着。

It was the last tram. The lank brown horses knew it and shook their bells to the clear night in admonition. The conductor talked with the driver, both nodding often in the green light of the lamp. On the empty seats of the tram were scattered a few coloured tickets. No sound of footsteps came up or down the road. No sound broke the peace of the night save when the lank brown horses rubbed their noses together and shook their bells.
这是最后一班电车。瘦长的棕色马知道了这一点，并在晴朗的夜色中摇动铃铛以示警告。售票员与司机交谈，两人在绿灯下时常点头。电车的空座位上散落着几张彩色车票。路上没有脚步声。没有任何声音打破夜晚的宁静，除了那些瘦长的棕色马互相摩擦鼻子和摇铃的时候。

They seemed to listen, he on the upper step and she on the lower. She came up to his step many times and went down to hers again between their phrases and once or twice stood close beside him for some moments on the upper step, forgetting to go down, and then went down. His heart danced upon her movements like a cork upon a tide. He heard what her eyes said to him from beneath their cowl and knew that in some dim past, whether in life or revery, he had heard their tale before. He saw her urge her vanities, her fine dress and sash and long black stockings, and knew that he had yielded to them a thousand times. Yet a voice within him spoke above the noise of his dancing heart, asking him would he take her gift to which he had only to stretch out his hand. And he remembered the day when he and Eileen had stood looking into the hotel grounds, watching the waiters running up a trail of bunting on the flagstaff and the fox terrier scampering to and fro on the sunny lawn and how, all of a sudden, she had broken out into a peal of laughter and had run down the sloping curve of the path. Now, as then, he stood listlessly in his place, seemingly a tranquil watcher of the scene before him.
他们似乎在听，他在上面的台阶上，她在下面的台阶上。她多次走到他的台阶上，在他们说话的间隙又走到她的台阶上，有一两次，她在上面的台阶上靠近他站了一会儿，忘了下去，然后就下去了。他的心随着她的动作而跳动，就像潮汐上的软木塞一样。他听到她的眼睛从头罩下对他说的话，并且知道在某个模糊的过去，无论是在生活中还是在遐想中，他以前听过他们的故事。他看到她强烈的虚荣心，她漂亮的衣服、腰带和黑色长袜，他知道他已经屈服于它们一千次了。然而，他内心的一个声音盖过了他跳动的心脏的噪音，问他是否愿意接受她的礼物，而他只需伸出手即可。他还记得那天，他和艾琳站在酒店庭院里，看着服务员在旗杆上跑来跑去，猎狐犬在阳光明媚的草坪上来回奔跑，突然之间，她爆发出阵阵笑声，沿着倾斜的小路跑下去。现在，他一如当初，无精打采地站在原地，似乎平静地注视着眼前的场景。

—She too wants me to catch hold of her, he thought. That’s why she came with me to the tram. I could easily catch hold of her when she comes up to my step: nobody is looking. I could hold her and kiss her.
——她也想让我抓住她，他想。这就是她和我一起去电车的原因。当她走到我的台阶上时，我可以轻松地抓住她：没有人在看。我可以抱着她，亲吻她。

But he did neither: and, when he was sitting alone in the deserted tram, he tore his ticket into shreds and stared gloomily at the corrugated footboard.
但他什么也没做：当他独自坐在废弃的电车里时，他把车票撕成碎片，阴郁地盯着波纹踏板。

*****

The next day he sat at his table in the bare upper room for many hours. Before him lay a new pen, a new bottle of ink and a new emerald exercise. From force of habit he had written at the top of the first page the initial letters of the jesuit motto: A.M.D.G. On the first line of the page appeared the title of the verses he was trying to write: To E— C—. He knew it was right to begin so for he had seen similar titles in the collected poems of Lord Byron. When he had written this title and drawn an ornamental line underneath he fell into a daydream and began to draw diagrams on the cover of the book. He saw himself sitting at his table in Bray the morning after the discussion at the Christmas dinner table, trying to write a poem about Parnell on the back of one of his father’s second moiety notices. But his brain had then refused to grapple with the theme and, desisting, he had covered the page with the names and addresses of certain of his classmates:
第二天，他在空荡荡的楼上房间里的桌子旁坐了好几个小时。他面前摆着一支新钢笔、一瓶新墨水和一份新的翡翠练习题。出于习惯的力量，他在第一页的顶部写下了耶稣会座右铭的首字母：A.M.D.G.这页的第一行出现了他想要写的诗句的标题：致E—C—。他知道开始是正确的，因为他在拜伦勋爵的诗集中看到过类似的标题。当他写下这个标题并在下面画了一条装饰线时，他陷入了白日梦，开始在书的封面上画图表。圣诞节餐桌上的讨论结束后的第二天早上，他看到自己坐在布雷的桌子旁，试图在他父亲的第二份通知的背面写一首关于帕内尔的诗。但他的大脑随后拒绝思考这个主题，他停止了，在这一页上写满了他某些同学的姓名和地址：

Roderick Kickham
罗德里克·基卡姆

John Lawton
约翰·劳顿

Anthony MacSwiney
安东尼·麦克斯威尼

Simon Moonan
西蒙·穆南

Now it seemed as if he would fail again but, by dint of brooding on the incident, he thought himself into confidence. During this process all those elements which he deemed common and insignificant fell out of the scene. There remained no trace of the tram itself nor of the tram-men nor of the horses: nor did he and she appear vividly. The verses told only of the night and the balmy breeze and the maiden lustre of the moon. Some undefined sorrow was hidden in the hearts of the protagonists as they stood in silence beneath the leafless trees and when the moment of farewell had come the kiss, which had been withheld by one, was given by both. After this the letters L. D. S. were written at the foot of the page, and, having hidden the book, he went into his mother’s bedroom and gazed at his face for a long time in the mirror of her dressing-table.
现在看来，他似乎又要失败了，但凭借对这件事的深思熟虑，他认为自己有了信心。在这个过程中，所有那些他认为司空见惯、无关紧要的元素都从场景中消失了。电车本身、电车司机和马匹都没有留下痕迹：他和她也没有生动地出现。这些诗句只讲述了夜晚、和煦的微风和月亮的少女光彩。主角们默默地站在光秃秃的树下，心中隐藏着某种莫名的悲伤，当告别的时刻到来时，一个人隐瞒的吻，两个人都给予了。此后，书页底部写下了字母“L.D.S.”，他把书藏起来，走进母亲的卧室，在她梳妆台的镜子里凝视了自己的脸很久。

But his long spell of leisure and liberty was drawing to its end. One evening his father came home full of news which kept his tongue busy all through dinner. Stephen had been awaiting his father’s return for there had been mutton hash that day and he knew that his father would make him dip his bread in the gravy. But he did not relish the hash for the mention of Clongowes had coated his palate with a scum of disgust.
但他漫长的闲暇和自由时光即将结束。一天晚上，他父亲回家时带来了很多消息，这让他整个晚餐都忙个不停。斯蒂芬一直在等待父亲回来，因为那天有羊肉哈希，他知道父亲会让他把面包浸在肉汁里。但他并不喜欢这种杂凑，因为一提到克朗戈斯，他的味觉就沾上了一层厌恶的浮渣。

—I walked bang into him, said Mr Dedalus for the fourth time, just at the corner of the square.
——我撞到了他，迪达勒斯先生第四次说道，就在广场的拐角处。

—Then I suppose, said Mrs Dedalus, he will be able to arrange it. I mean about Belvedere.
——那么我想，迪达勒斯夫人说，他就能安排好。我指的是丽城。

—Of course he will, said Mr Dedalus. Don’t I tell you he’s provincial of the order now?
——他当然会的，迪达勒斯先生说。我不是告诉过你他现在已经不再是教团的成员了吗？

—I never liked the idea of sending him to the christian brothers myself, said Mrs Dedalus.
——我从来不喜欢亲自送他去基督教兄弟会的想法，迪达勒斯夫人说。

—Christian brothers be damned! said Mr Dedalus. Is it with Paddy Stink and Micky Mud? No, let him stick to the jesuits in God’s name since he began with them. They’ll be of service to him in after years. Those are the fellows that can get you a position.
——基督教兄弟见鬼去吧！迪达勒斯先生说。是和 Paddy Stink 和 Micky Mud 一起吗？不，让他以上帝的名义坚持耶稣会士，因为他从他们开始。多年后他们将为他服务。这些人可以为你找到一个职位。

—And they’re a very rich order, aren’t they, Simon?
——他们是一个非常富有的组织，不是吗，西蒙？

—Rather. They live well, I tell you. You saw their table at Clongowes. Fed up, by God, like gamecocks.
-相当。我告诉你，他们生活得很好。你在 Clongowes 看到了他们的桌子。上帝啊，像斗鸡一样受够了。

Mr Dedalus pushed his plate over to Stephen and bade him finish what was on it.
迪达勒斯先生把他的盘子推给史蒂芬，请他吃完上面的东西。

—Now then, Stephen, he said, you must put your shoulder to the wheel, old chap. You’ve had a fine long holiday.
——那么，史蒂芬，他说，你必须把你的肩膀放在方向盘上，老伙计。你度过了一个美好的长假。

—O, I’m sure he’ll work very hard now, said Mrs Dedalus, especially when he has Maurice with him.
——噢，我相信他现在会非常努力地工作，迪达勒斯太太说，尤其是当他有莫里斯在身边的时候。

—O, Holy Paul, I forgot about Maurice, said Mr Dedalus. Here, Maurice! Come here, you thick-headed ruffian! Do you know I’m going to send you to a college where they’ll teach you to spell c.a.t. cat. And I’ll buy you a nice little penny handkerchief to keep your nose dry. Won’t that be grand fun?
——噢，圣保罗，我忘了莫里斯，迪达勒斯先生说。在这里，莫里斯！过来，你这个厚脸皮的恶棍！你知道吗，我要把你送到一所大学，在那里他们会教你拼写 c.a.t.猫。我会给你买一块漂亮的小手帕，让你的鼻子保持干爽。那不是很有趣吗？

Maurice grinned at his father and then at his brother.
莫里斯对他的父亲微笑，然后对他的兄弟微笑。

Mr Dedalus screwed his glass into his eye and stared hard at both his sons. Stephen mumbled his bread without answering his father’s gaze.
迪达勒斯先生把眼镜拧进眼睛里，紧紧地盯着他的两个儿子。斯蒂芬咕哝着吃面包，没有回应父亲的目光。

—By the bye, said Mr Dedalus at length, the rector, or provincial rather, was telling me that story about you and Father Dolan. You’re an impudent thief, he said.
——再见，迪达勒斯先生最后说道，校长，或者更确切地说，是省长，正在给我讲关于你和多兰神父的故事。你是个无耻的小偷，他说。

—O, he didn’t, Simon!
——哦，他没有，西蒙！

—Not he! said Mr Dedalus. But he gave me a great account of the whole affair. We were chatting, you know, and one word borrowed another. And, by the way, who do you think he told me will get that job in the corporation? But I’ll tell you that after. Well, as I was saying, we were chatting away quite friendly and he asked me did our friend here wear glasses still, and then he told me the whole story.
——不是他！迪达勒斯先生说。但他向我详细讲述了整个事件。你知道，我们在聊天，一个词借用了另一个词。顺便问一下，他告诉我，你认为谁会在公司得到这份工作？但之后我会告诉你。嗯，正如我所说，我们聊得非常友好，他问我这里的朋友还戴着眼镜吗，然后他告诉了我整个故事。

—And was he annoyed, Simon?
——西蒙，他生气了吗？

—Annoyed? Not he! MANLY LITTLE CHAP! he said.
——生气了？不是他！很有男子气概的小伙子！他说。

Mr Dedalus imitated the mincing nasal tone of the provincial.
迪达勒斯先生模仿了乡下人装腔作势的鼻音。

Father Dolan and I, when I told them all at dinner about it, Father Dolan and I had a great laugh over it. YOU BETTER MIND YOURSELF FATHER DOLAN, said I, OR YOUNG DEDALUS WILL SEND YOU UP FOR TWICE NINE. We had a famous laugh together over it. Ha! Ha! Ha!
多兰神父和我，当我在晚餐时告诉他们这件事时，多兰神父和我哈哈大笑。你最好小心一点，多兰神父，我说，否则年轻的德达勒斯会把你送上两次九号。我们为此开怀大笑。哈！哈！哈！

Mr Dedalus turned to his wife and interjected in his natural voice:
迪达勒斯先生转向他的妻子，用他自然的声音插话道：

—Shows you the spirit in which they take the boys there. O, a jesuit for your life, for diplomacy!
——向你展示了他们带孩子们去那里的精神。哦，耶稣会士，为了你的生命，为了外交！

He reassumed the provincial’s voice and repeated:
他重新用省长的声音重复道：

—I TOLD THEM ALL AT DINNER ABOUT IT AND FATHER DOLAN AND I AND ALL OF US WE HAD A HEARTY LAUGH TOGETHER OVER IT. HA! HA! HA!
——我在晚餐时把这件事告诉了他们所有人，多兰神父、我以及我们所有人都为此开怀大笑。哈！哈！哈！

*****

The night of the Whitsuntide play had come and Stephen from the window of the dressing-room looked out on the small grass-plot across which lines of Chinese lanterns were stretched. He watched the visitors come down the steps from the house and pass into the theatre. Stewards in evening dress, old Belvedereans, loitered in groups about the entrance to the theatre and ushered in the visitors with ceremony. Under the sudden glow of a lantern he could recognize the smiling face of a priest.
圣灵降临节演出的夜晚已经到来，史蒂芬从更衣室的窗户望出去，看到一小片草地，草地上挂着一排排中国灯笼。他看着客人们从房子里走下台阶，走进剧院。穿着晚礼服的老贝尔维德人，成群结队地在剧院入口处徘徊，以仪式欢迎来访者。在灯笼突然发出的光芒下，他认出了牧师的笑脸。

The Blessed Sacrament had been removed from the tabernacle and the first benches had been driven back so as to leave the dais of the altar and the space before it free. Against the walls stood companies of barbells and Indian clubs; the dumbbells were piled in one corner: and in the midst of countless hillocks of gymnasium shoes and sweaters and singlets in untidy brown parcels there stood the stout leatherjacketed vaulting horse waiting its turn to be carried up on the stage and set in the middle of the winning team at the end of the gymnastic display.
圣体已从圣体柜中移走，第一批长凳已被推回，以便留下祭坛的讲台和祭坛之前的空间。靠墙站着成群结队的杠铃和印度球杆。哑铃堆在一个角落里：在无数堆成堆的运动鞋、毛衣和背心，散乱的棕色包裹中，站着一匹粗壮的皮夹克跳马，等待着被抬上舞台，放在舞台中央。体操表演结束时获胜队。

Stephen, though in deference to his reputation for essay writing he had been elected secretary to the gymnasium, had had no part in the first section of the programme but in the play which formed the second section he had the chief part, that of a farcical pedagogue. He had been cast for it on account of his stature and grave manners for he was now at the end of his second year at Belvedere and in number two.
斯蒂芬虽然以他在论文写作方面的声誉而被选为体育馆秘书，但他没有参加节目的第一部分，但在构成第二部分的戏剧中，他扮演了主要角色，一部滑稽剧。教育家。他之所以被选中是因为他的身材和庄重的举止，因为他现在已经在贝尔韦代雷第二年结束了，并且排名第二。

A score of the younger boys in white knickers and singlets came pattering down from the stage, through the vestry and to the chapel. The vestry and chapel were peopled with eager masters and boys. The plump bald sergeant major was testing with his foot the springboard of the vaulting horse. The lean young man in a long overcoat, who was to give a special display of intricate club swinging, stood near watching with interest, his silver-coated clubs peeping out of his deep side-pockets. The hollow rattle of the wooden dumbbells was heard as another team made ready to go up on the stage: and in another moment the excited prefect was hustling the boys through the vestry like a flock of geese, flapping the wings of his soutane nervously and crying to the laggards to make haste. A little troop of Neapolitan peasants were practising their steps at the end of the chapel, some circling their arms above their heads, some swaying their baskets of paper violets and curtsying. In a dark corner of the chapel at the gospel side of the altar a stout old lady knelt amid her copious black skirts. When she stood up a pink-dressed figure, wearing a curly golden wig and an old-fashioned straw sunbonnet, with black pencilled eyebrows and cheeks delicately rouged and powdered, was discovered. A low murmur of curiosity ran round the chapel at the discovery of this girlish figure. One of the prefects, smiling and nodding his head, approached the dark corner and, having bowed to the stout old lady, said pleasantly:
二十个穿着白色内裤和背心的年轻男孩从舞台上走下来，穿过小礼拜堂，来到小教堂。小礼拜堂和礼拜堂里挤满了热心的大师和男孩。胖乎乎的秃顶军士长正在用脚试探跳马的跳板。那个穿着长大衣的瘦削年轻人，要特别展示复杂的球杆挥杆动作，他站在附近饶有兴趣地观看，他的银色涂层球杆从他深深的侧袋中露出来。当另一支队伍准备登上舞台时，传来木哑铃空洞的嘎嘎声：过了一会儿，兴奋的级长像一群鹅一样催促着孩子们穿过教区，紧张地拍打着苏坦的翅膀，哭了起来。让落后者抓紧时间。一小群那不勒斯农民正在教堂尽头练习舞步，有的将手臂举过头顶，有的摇晃着装着纸紫罗兰的篮子并行屈膝礼。在教堂圣坛福音一侧的一个黑暗角落里，一位身材魁梧的老太太跪在她那条宽大的黑裙子里。当她站起来时，人们发现了一个穿着粉红色衣服的身影，戴着一顶卷曲的金色假发，戴着一顶老式草编遮阳帽，用黑色铅笔画出眉毛，脸颊上精致地涂着胭脂和粉。当发现这个少女般的身影时，教堂里响起了好奇的低声议论。一名知府笑着点点头，走到阴暗的角落，向胖老太太行了一礼，和蔼地说道：

—Is this a beautiful young lady or a doll that you have here, Mrs Tallon?
——塔伦夫人，你这里的这是一位美丽的年轻女士还是一个洋娃娃？

Then, bending down to peer at the smiling painted face under the leaf of the bonnet, he exclaimed:
然后，他弯下腰，看着引擎盖叶子下那张画着笑容的脸，大声说道：

—No! Upon my word I believe it’s little Bertie Tallon after all!
-不！老实说，我相信这毕竟是小伯蒂·塔伦！

Stephen at his post by the window heard the old lady and the priest laugh together and heard the boys’ murmurs of admiration behind him as they passed forward to see the little boy who had to dance the sunbonnet dance by himself. A movement of impatience escaped him. He let the edge of the blind fall and, stepping down from the bench on which he had been standing, walked out of the chapel.
斯蒂芬在窗边的岗位上听到老太太和神父一起大笑，听到身后男孩们低声议论，他们向前走去，看到那个不得不独自跳太阳帽舞的小男孩。他感到一丝不耐烦。他放下百叶窗的边缘，从刚才站着的长凳上走下来，走出了教堂。

He passed out of the schoolhouse and halted under the shed that flanked the garden. From the theatre opposite came the muffled noise of the audience and sudden brazen clashes of the soldiers’ band. The light spread upwards from the glass roof making the theatre seem a festive ark, anchored among the hulks of houses, her frail cables of lanterns looping her to her moorings. A side door of the theatre opened suddenly and a shaft of light flew across the grass plots. A sudden burst of music issued from the ark, the prelude of a waltz: and when the side door closed again the listener could hear the faint rhythm of the music. The sentiment of the opening bars, their languor and supple movement, evoked the incommunicable emotion which had been the cause of all his day’s unrest and of his impatient movement of a moment before. His unrest issued from him like a wave of sound: and on the tide of flowing music the ark was journeying, trailing her cables of lanterns in her wake. Then a noise like dwarf artillery broke the movement. It was the clapping that greeted the entry of the dumbbell team on the stage.
他走出校舍，在花园两侧的棚子下停了下来。对面的剧院里传来观众低沉的喧闹声和士兵乐队突然发生的激烈冲突。光线从玻璃屋顶向上蔓延，使剧院看起来就像一艘节日方舟，停泊在房屋的废墟中，脆弱的灯笼将她环绕到停泊处。剧院的侧门突然打开，一道光柱掠过草地。方舟里突然发出一阵音乐，华尔兹的前奏：当侧门再次关闭时，听者可以听到微弱的音乐节奏。开头几小节的情绪、它们的慵懒和柔顺的动作，唤起了他难以言喻的情感，而这种情感正是他一整天的不安和前一刻不耐烦动作的原因。他的不安从他身上发出，就像一阵声音的波涛：在流动的音乐浪潮中，方舟正在航行，尾随她的灯笼缆绳。然后一声像矮人火炮一样的声音打断了这个动作。迎接哑铃队上台的是热烈的掌声。

At the far end of the shed near the street a speck of pink light showed in the darkness and as he walked towards it he became aware of a faint aromatic odour. Two boys were standing in the shelter of a doorway, smoking, and before he reached them he had recognised Heron by his voice.
靠近街道的棚屋尽头，黑暗中闪现出一抹粉红色的光芒，当他走向它时，他闻到了一股淡淡的芳香气味。两个男孩站在门口的避难所里抽烟，在他到达他们面前之前，他已经通过声音认出了海伦。

—Here comes the noble Dedalus! cried a high throaty voice. Welcome to our trusty friend!
——高贵的迪达勒斯来了！高声嘶哑地喊道。欢迎您成为我们值得信赖的朋友！

This welcome ended in a soft peal of mirthless laughter as Heron salaamed and then began to poke the ground with his cane.
这场欢迎以一阵轻柔、阴郁的笑声结束，赫伦说了声“敬礼”，然后开始用拐杖戳地。

—Here I am, said Stephen, halting and glancing from Heron to his friend.
——我在这里，斯蒂芬说着，停下来，目光从海伦身上移到了他的朋友身上。

The latter was a stranger to him but in the darkness, by the aid of the glowing cigarette tips, he could make out a pale dandyish face over which a smile was travelling slowly, a tall overcoated figure and a hard hat. Heron did not trouble himself about an introduction but said instead:
后者对他来说很陌生，但在黑暗中，借助发光的烟头，他可以辨认出一张苍白的纨绔子弟脸上慢慢地挂着微笑，还有一个穿着大衣、戴着安全帽的高大身影。海伦并没有费心去介绍，而是说道：

—I was just telling my friend Wallis what a lark it would be tonight if you took off the rector in the part of the schoolmaster. It would be a ripping good joke.
——我只是告诉我的朋友沃利斯，如果你今晚把校长的校长角色去掉，那该有多高兴啊。这将是一个很好的笑话。

Heron made a poor attempt to imitate for his friend Wallis the rector’s pedantic bass and then, laughing at his failure, asked Stephen to do it.
海伦尝试为他的朋友沃利斯模仿校长迂腐的低音，但效果不佳，然后嘲笑他的失败，要求斯蒂芬也这么做。

—Go on, Dedalus, he urged, you can take him off rippingly. HE THAT WILL NOT HEAR THE CHURCHA LET HIM BE TO THEEA AS THE HEATHENA AND THE PUBLICANA.
——继续吧，迪达勒斯，他催促道，你可以把他撕碎了。那些不肯听教会讲话的人，就让他成为异教徒和公共人士吧。

The imitation was prevented by a mild expression of anger from Wallis in whose mouthpiece the cigarette had become too tightly wedged.
沃利斯脸上的轻微愤怒表情阻止了他的模仿，他的烟嘴里的香烟插得太紧了。

—Damn this blankety blank holder, he said, taking it from his mouth and smiling and frowning upon it tolerantly. It’s always getting stuck like that. Do you use a holder?
——该死的这个毛毯状的空白框，他说，把它从嘴里拿出来，微笑着，皱着眉头宽容地看着它。总是这样被卡住。你使用支架吗？

—I don’t smoke, answered Stephen.
——我不抽烟，斯蒂芬回答。

—No, said Heron, Dedalus is a model youth. He doesn’t smoke and he doesn’t go to bazaars and he doesn’t flirt and he doesn’t damn anything or damn all.
——不，海伦说，迪达勒斯是一位模范青年。他不抽烟，他不去集市，他不调情，他不该死的任何事情或该死的一切。

Stephen shook his head and smiled in his rival’s flushed and mobile face, beaked like a bird’s. He had often thought it strange that Vincent Heron had a bird’s face as well as a bird’s name. A shock of pale hair lay on the forehead like a ruffled crest: the forehead was narrow and bony and a thin hooked nose stood out between the close-set prominent eyes which were light and inexpressive. The rivals were school friends. They sat together in class, knelt together in the chapel, talked together after beads over their lunches. As the fellows in number one were undistinguished dullards, Stephen and Heron had been during the year the virtual heads of the school. It was they who went up to the rector together to ask for a free day or to get a fellow off.
史蒂芬摇摇头，对着对手那张红润而灵活、像鸟嘴一样的脸微笑。他常常觉得很奇怪，文森特·赫伦有一张鸟的脸和鸟的名字。一头浅色的头发披在额头上，像一个皱起的波峰：额头窄而瘦骨嶙峋，一对细长的鹰钩鼻在两只眼睛之间突出，眼睛距离很近，眼睛浅淡而无表情。对手是学校的朋友。他们在课堂上坐在一起，在教堂里一起跪下，在午餐时一起念珠聊天。由于排名第一的同学都是不起眼的笨蛋，史蒂芬和赫伦这一年实际上是学校的校长。正是他们一起去校长那里请求休息一天或请一个同事休息。

—O by the way, said Heron suddenly, I saw your governor going in.
——哦，顺便说一句，海伦突然说道，我看到你们的州长进来了。

The smile waned on Stephen’s face. Any allusion made to his father by a fellow or by a master put his calm to rout in a moment. He waited in timorous silence to hear what Heron might say next. Heron, however, nudged him expressively with his elbow and said:
斯蒂芬脸上的笑容消失了。任何一个家伙或一位大师对他父亲的暗示都会让他的平静瞬间崩溃。他胆怯地沉默着，等待海伦接下来说的话。海伦却用肘部意味深长地碰了碰他，说道：

—You’re a sly dog.
——你是一只狡猾的狗。

—Why so? said Stephen.
-为什么这样？斯蒂芬说。

—You’d think butter wouldn’t melt in your mouth said Heron. But I’m afraid you’re a sly dog.
——海伦说，你会认为黄油不会在你嘴里融化。但我担心你是一只狡猾的狗。

—Might I ask you what you are talking about? said Stephen urbanely.
——我可以问你在说什么吗？斯蒂芬温文尔雅地说。

—Indeed you might, answered Heron. We saw her, Wallis, didn’t we? And deucedly pretty she is too. And inquisitive! AND WHAT PART DOES STEPHEN TAKE, MR DEDALUS? AND WILL STEPHEN NOT SING, MR DEDALUS? Your governor was staring at her through that eyeglass of his for all he was worth so that I think the old man has found you out too. I wouldn’t care a bit, by Jove. She’s ripping, isn’t she, Wallis?
——确实可以，海伦回答。我们看到她了，沃利斯，不是吗？她也非常漂亮。并且好奇！迪达勒斯先生，斯蒂芬扮演什么角色？戴达勒斯先生，斯蒂芬不会唱歌吗？你们的州长正透过他那副眼镜盯着她看，所以我想那位老人也发现了你。天哪，我一点也不在乎。她正在撕裂，不是吗，沃利斯？

—Not half bad, answered Wallis quietly as he placed his holder once more in a corner of his mouth.
——还不错，沃利斯轻声回答，同时再次将支架放在嘴角。

A shaft of momentary anger flew through Stephen’s mind at these indelicate allusions in the hearing of a stranger. For him there was nothing amusing in a girl’s interest and regard. All day he had thought of nothing but their leave-taking on the steps of the tram at Harold’s Cross, the stream of moody emotions it had made to course through him and the poem he had written about it. All day he had imagined a new meeting with her for he knew that she was to come to the play. The old restless moodiness had again filled his breast as it had done on the night of the party, but had not found an outlet in verse. The growth and knowledge of two years of boyhood stood between then and now, forbidding such an outlet: and all day the stream of gloomy tenderness within him had started forth and returned upon itself in dark courses and eddies, wearying him in the end until the pleasantry of the prefect and the painted little boy had drawn from him a movement of impatience.
听到一个陌生人说出这些不雅的暗示，史蒂芬的脑海里瞬间升起了一阵愤怒。对他来说，女孩的兴趣和尊重没有什么好笑的。一整天，他只想着他们在哈罗德十字路口电车台阶上的告别，流淌在他心头的喜怒无常的情绪，以及他为此写的诗。一整天他都在想象与她的一次新的会面，因为他知道她要来看戏。昔日焦躁不安的心情又像聚会当晚那样充满了他的胸膛，但却没有在诗歌中找到发泄的出口。从那时到现在，两年童年的成长和知识，不允许有这样的出口：整天，他内心阴暗的温柔之流开始涌出，又在黑暗的路线和漩涡中返回，最终使他疲惫不堪，直到省长和画着彩绘的小男孩的玩笑让他变得不耐烦了。

—So you may as well admit, Heron went on, that we’ve fairly found you out this time. You can’t play the saint on me any more, that’s one sure five.
——所以你不妨承认，赫伦接着说，这次我们已经彻底发现你了。你不能再对我扮演圣人了，这是肯定的五个。

A soft peal of mirthless laughter escaped from his lips and, bending down as before, he struck Stephen lightly across the calf of the leg with his cane, as if in jesting reproof.
他嘴里发出一声轻柔的、阴郁的笑声，像以前一样弯下腰，用拐杖轻轻地敲打着斯蒂芬的小腿，仿佛是在开玩笑地责备他。

Stephen’s moment of anger had already passed. He was neither flattered nor confused, but simply wished the banter to end. He scarcely resented what had seemed to him a silly indelicateness for he knew that the adventure in his mind stood in no danger from these words: and his face mirrored his rival’s false smile.
斯蒂芬的愤怒时刻已经过去了。他既没有受宠若惊，也没有困惑，只是希望戏谑结束。他对这种在他看来愚蠢无礼的行为几乎没有怨恨，因为他知道这句话对他心中的冒险没有任何危险：他的脸映照着他对手的虚假微笑。

—Admit! repeated Heron, striking him again with his cane across the calf of the leg.
-承认！海伦重复道，再次用拐杖敲击他的小腿。

The stroke was playful but not so lightly given as the first one had been. Stephen felt the skin tingle and glow slightly and almost painlessly; and, bowing submissively, as if to meet his companion’s jesting mood, began to recite the CONFITEOR. The episode ended well, for both Heron and Wallis laughed indulgently at the irreverence.
这一击很有趣，但并不像第一次那样轻率。史蒂芬感到皮肤微微刺痛，泛着光泽，几乎无痛；然后，他顺从地鞠了个躬，似乎是为了迎合同伴开玩笑的心情，开始背诵《CONFITEOR》。这一集的结局很好，海伦和沃利斯都对这种不敬行为大笑起来。

The confession came only from Stephen’s lips and, while they spoke the words, a sudden memory had carried him to another scene called up, as if by magic, at the moment when he had noted the faint cruel dimples at the corners of Heron’s smiling lips and had felt the familiar stroke of the cane against his calf and had heard the familiar word of admonition:
忏悔只是从斯蒂芬的嘴里说出来的，当他们说这些话的时候，突然的记忆把他带到了另一个场景，就像魔法一样，当时他注意到海伦微笑的嘴角上有淡淡的残酷酒窝。他感受到了熟悉的手杖敲击他小腿的声音，听到了熟悉的警告：

—Admit.
-承认。

It was towards the close of his first term in the college when he was in number six. His sensitive nature was still smarting under the lashes of an undivined and squalid way of life. His soul was still disquieted and cast down by the dull phenomenon of Dublin. He had emerged from a two years’ spell of revery to find himself in the midst of a new scene, every event and figure of which affected him intimately, disheartened him or allured and, whether alluring or disheartening, filled him always with unrest and bitter thoughts. All the leisure which his school life left him was passed in the company of subversive writers whose jibes and violence of speech set up a ferment in his brain before they passed out of it into his crude writings.
当时他在大学的第一个学期即将结束，当时他排名第六。他敏感的天性在不神圣和肮脏的生活方式的鞭打下仍然感到刺痛。他的灵魂仍然因都柏林的沉闷现象而感到不安和沮丧。他从两年的沉思中走出来，发现自己置身于一个新的场景之中，其中的每一个事件和人物都对他产生了密切的影响，使他沮丧或引诱，无论是诱人还是令人沮丧，总是让他充满不安和痛苦。想法。学校生活留给他的所有闲暇时间都是在颠覆性作家的陪伴下度过的，他们的嘲讽和暴力言论在他的大脑中引起了骚动，然后才传到他粗糙的作品中。

The essay was for him the chief labour of his week and every Tuesday, as he marched from home to the school, he read his fate in the incidents of the way, pitting himself against some figure ahead of him and quickening his pace to outstrip it before a certain goal was reached or planting his steps scrupulously in the spaces of the patchwork of the pathway and telling himself that he would be first and not first in the weekly essay.
对他来说，这篇文章是他一周的主要工作，每周二，当他从家里步行到学校时，他都会在途中发生的事件中解读自己的命运，与前面的某个人物较量，并加快步伐以超越它。在达到某个目标之前，他会小心翼翼地将自己的脚步踩在道路拼凑而成的空间中，并告诉自己，他将成为每周论文中的第一名，而不是第一名。

On a certain Tuesday the course of his triumphs was rudely broken. Mr Tate, the English master, pointed his finger at him and said bluntly:
在某个星期二，他的胜利之路被粗暴地打破了。英国大师泰特先生用手指着他，直言不讳地说：

—This fellow has heresy in his essay.
——这家伙的文章里有异端邪说。

A hush fell on the class. Mr Tate did not break it but dug with his hand between his thighs while his heavily starched linen creaked about his neck and wrists. Stephen did not look up. It was a raw spring morning and his eyes were still smarting and weak. He was conscious of failure and of detection, of the squalor of his own mind and home, and felt against his neck the raw edge of his turned and jagged collar.
班级里一片寂静。泰特先生没有弄断它，而是用手在大腿之间挖洞，而他的脖子和手腕上，他那身浆过的厚亚麻布嘎吱作响。史蒂芬没有抬头。那是一个寒冷的春天的早晨，他的眼睛仍然刺痛而虚弱。他意识到自己的失败和被发现，意识到自己的思想和家庭的肮脏，他感觉到自己的脖子上有扭曲的锯齿状衣领的粗糙边缘。

A short loud laugh from Mr Tate set the class more at ease.
泰特先生一声短促、响亮的笑声让全班同学更加放松了。

—Perhaps you didn’t know that, he said.
——也许你不知道这一点，他说。

—Where? asked Stephen.
-在哪里？史蒂芬问道。

Mr Tate withdrew his delving hand and spread out the essay.
泰特先生收回了探究的手，展开了这篇文章。

—Here. It’s about the Creator and the soul. Rrm...rrm...rrm...Ah! WITHOUT A POSSIBILITY OF EVER APPROACHING NEARER. That’s heresy.
-这里。这是关于造物主和灵魂的。嗯……嗯……嗯……啊！不可能再靠近了。这是异端邪说。

Stephen murmured:
史蒂芬低声说道：

—I meant WITHOUT A POSSIBILITY OF EVER REACHING.
——我的意思是没有可能到达。

It was a submission and Mr Tate, appeased, folded up the essay and passed it across to him, saying:
这是一份意见书，泰特先生安抚下来，将论文折叠起来递给他，说道：

—O...Ah! EVER REACHING. That’s another story.
——噢……啊！永远到达。那是另一个故事了。

But the class was not so soon appeased. Though nobody spoke to him of the affair after class he could feel about him a vague general malignant joy.
但全班同学并没有这么快平静下来。尽管下课后没有人向他提起这件事，但他能从他身上感受到一种模糊的、普遍的、恶毒的快乐。

A few nights after this public chiding he was walking with a letter along the Drumcondra Road when he heard a voice cry:
在这次公开谴责之后的几个晚上，他带着一封信沿着德拉姆康德拉路行走时，听到一个声音喊道：

—Halt!
-停止！

He turned and saw three boys of his own class coming towards him in the dusk. It was Heron who had called out and, as he marched forward between his two attendants, he cleft the air before him with a thin cane in time to their steps. Boland, his friend, marched beside him, a large grin on his face, while Nash came on a few steps behind, blowing from the pace and wagging his great red head.
他转身，看见三个同班的男生在黄昏中向他走来。是海伦喊了一声，当他在两个随从中间向前走时，他随着他们的脚步，用一根细手杖劈开了前面的空气。他的朋友博兰在他身边走着，脸上挂着灿烂的笑容，而纳什则在后面几步，步伐沉重，摇着他的大红头。

As soon as the boys had turned into Clonliffe Road together they began to speak about books and writers, saying what books they were reading and how many books there were in their fathers’ bookcases at home. Stephen listened to them in some wonderment for Boland was the dunce and Nash the idler of the class. In fact, after some talk about their favourite writers, Nash declared for Captain Marryat who, he said, was the greatest writer.
男孩们一拐进克朗利夫路，就开始谈论书籍和作家，说他们在读什么书，家里父亲的书柜里有多少本书。史蒂芬听着他们讲话，心里有些惊讶，因为博兰是个笨蛋，纳什是班上的闲人。事实上，在谈论了他们最喜欢的作家之后，纳什宣布支持玛丽亚特船长，他说，玛丽亚特是最伟大的作家。

—Fudge! said Heron. Ask Dedalus. Who is the greatest writer, Dedalus?
-做傻事！海伦说。问问迪达勒斯。代达勒斯是谁最伟大的作家？

Stephen noted the mockery in the question and said:
斯蒂芬注意到了问题中的嘲讽，并说道：

—Of prose do you mean?
——你指的是散文吗？

—Yes.
-是的。

—Newman, I think.
——纽曼，我想。

—Is it Cardinal Newman? asked Boland.
——是红衣主教纽曼吗？博兰问道。

—Yes, answered Stephen.
——是的，斯蒂芬回答。

The grin broadened on Nash’s freckled face as he turned to Stephen and said:
纳什满是雀斑的脸上笑容更加灿烂，他转向斯蒂芬说道：

—And do you like Cardinal Newman, Dedalus?
——迪达勒斯，你喜欢红衣主教纽曼吗？

—O, many say that Newman has the best prose style, Heron said to the other two in explanation, of course he’s not a poet.
——哦，很多人都说纽曼的散文风格最好，赫伦对另外两人解释道，他当然不是诗人。

—And who is the best poet, Heron? asked Boland.
——赫伦，谁是最好的诗人？博兰问道。

—Lord Tennyson, of course, answered Heron.
——当然，丁尼生勋爵回答海伦。

—O, yes, Lord Tennyson, said Nash. We have all his poetry at home in a book.
——哦，是的，丁尼生勋爵，纳什说。我们把他所有的诗都放在家里的一本书里。

At this Stephen forgot the silent vows he had been making and burst out:
说到这里，斯蒂芬忘记了自己默默发下的誓言，突然大声说道：

—Tennyson a poet! Why, he’s only a rhymester!
——丁尼生是一位诗人！为什么，他只是一个押韵者！

—O, get out! said Heron. Everyone knows that Tennyson is the greatest poet.
——哦，出去吧！海伦说。大家都知道丁尼生是最伟大的诗人。

—And who do you think is the greatest poet? asked Boland, nudging his neighbour.
——你认为谁是最伟大的诗人？博兰一边问道，一边推了推他的邻居。

—Byron, of course, answered Stephen.
——拜伦，当然，斯蒂芬回答道。

Heron gave the lead and all three joined in a scornful laugh.
海伦带头，三个人一起轻蔑地笑起来。

—What are you laughing at? asked Stephen.
-你在笑什么？史蒂芬问道。

—You, said Heron. Byron the greatest poet! He’s only a poet for uneducated people.
——你，海伦说。拜伦最伟大的诗人！他只是一个为未受过教育的人写的诗人。

—He must be a fine poet! said Boland.
——他一定是一位出色的诗人！博兰说。

—You may keep your mouth shut, said Stephen, turning on him boldly. All you know about poetry is what you wrote up on the slates in the yard and were going to be sent to the loft for.
——你可以闭嘴，斯蒂芬大胆地转向他说道。你所知道的关于诗歌的一切就是你在院子里的石板上写下的东西，然后被送到阁楼去。

Boland, in fact, was said to have written on the slates in the yard a couplet about a classmate of his who often rode home from the college on a pony:
事实上，据说博兰在院子里的石板上写了一副对联，是关于他的一位同学经常骑着小马从大学骑着回家的：

As Tyson was riding into Jerusalem He fell and hurt his Alec Kafoozelum.
当泰森骑马进入耶路撒冷时，他摔倒并伤害了他的亚历克·卡富泽鲁姆。

This thrust put the two lieutenants to silence but Heron went on:
这一推让两名中尉沉默了，但赫伦继续说道：

—In any case Byron was a heretic and immoral too.
——无论如何，拜伦也是一个异教徒，也是一个不道德的人。

—I don’t care what he was, cried Stephen hotly.
——我不在乎他是什么，史蒂芬激烈地喊道。

—You don’t care whether he was a heretic or not? said Nash.
——你不在乎他是不是异端？纳什说。

—What do you know about it? shouted Stephen. You never read a line of anything in your life except a trans, or Boland either.
——你对此了解多少？斯蒂芬喊道。除了跨性别者或博兰之外，你一生中从未读过任何东西。

—I know that Byron was a bad man, said Boland.
——我知道拜伦是个坏人，博兰说。

—Here, catch hold of this heretic, Heron called out. In a moment Stephen was a prisoner.
——来，抓住这个异教徒，海伦喊道。刹那间，史蒂芬就成了阶下囚。

—Tate made you buck up the other day, Heron went on, about the heresy in your essay.
——那天，泰特让你振作起来，赫伦继续说道，关于你论文中的异端邪说。

—I’ll tell him tomorrow, said Boland.
——我明天就告诉他，博兰说。

—Will you? said Stephen. You’d be afraid to open your lips.
-你会？斯蒂芬说。你会害怕张开嘴唇。

—Afraid?
-害怕的？

—Ay. Afraid of your life.
——哎呀。害怕你的生命。

—Behave yourself! cried Heron, cutting at Stephen’s legs with his cane.
——规规矩矩！海伦喊道，用拐杖割断斯蒂芬的腿。

It was the signal for their onset. Nash pinioned his arms behind while Boland seized a long cabbage stump which was lying in the gutter. Struggling and kicking under the cuts of the cane and the blows of the knotty stump Stephen was borne back against a barbed wire fence.
这是他们进攻的信号。纳什将双臂放在身后，而博兰则抓住了排水沟里的一根长长的卷心菜树桩。斯蒂芬在手杖的割伤和多节残肢的打击下挣扎、踢打，被推回铁丝网围栏上。

—Admit that Byron was no good.
——承认拜伦不好。

—No.
-不。

—Admit.
-承认。

—No.
-不。

—Admit.
-承认。

—No. No.
-不。不。

At last after a fury of plunges he wrenched himself free. His tormentors set off towards Jones’s Road, laughing and jeering at him, while he, half blinded with tears, stumbled on, clenching his fists madly and sobbing.
猛烈地跳下后，他终于挣脱了束缚。折磨他的人朝琼斯路走去，嘲笑他，而他则泪流满面，跌跌撞撞地走着，疯狂地握紧拳头，抽泣着。

While he was still repeating the CONFITEOR amid the indulgent laughter of his hearers and while the scenes of that malignant episode were still passing sharply and swiftly before his mind he wondered why he bore no malice now to those who had tormented him. He had not forgotten a whit of their cowardice and cruelty but the memory of it called forth no anger from him. All the descriptions of fierce love and hatred which he had met in books had seemed to him therefore unreal. Even that night as he stumbled homewards along Jones’s Road he had felt that some power was divesting him of that sudden-woven anger as easily as a fruit is divested of its soft ripe peel.
当他还在听众纵容的笑声中重复着《倾诉者》的时候，当那段恶毒事件的场景仍然在他的脑海中急剧而迅速地掠过时，他想知道为什么他现在对那些折磨过他的人没有恶意。他丝毫没有忘记他们的懦弱和残忍，但记忆中的这些并没有激起他的愤怒。书本上所有激烈的爱与恨的描述，在他看来都是不真实的。即使那天晚上，当他沿着琼斯路跌跌撞撞地回家时，他也感到有某种力量正在剥夺他突然编织的愤怒，就像剥掉水果柔软成熟的果皮一样容易。

He remained standing with his two companions at the end of the shed listening idly to their talk or to the bursts of applause in the theatre. She was sitting there among the others perhaps waiting for him to appear. He tried to recall her appearance but could not. He could remember only that she had worn a shawl about her head like a cowl and that her dark eyes had invited and unnerved him. He wondered had he been in her thoughts as she had been in his. Then in the dark and unseen by the other two he rested the tips of the fingers of one hand upon the palm of the other hand, scarcely touching it lightly. But the pressure of her fingers had been lighter and steadier: and suddenly the memory of their touch traversed his brain and body like an invisible wave.
他和他的两个同伴仍然站在棚子的尽头，懒洋洋地听着他们的谈话或剧院里爆发出的掌声。她坐在其他人中间，也许是在等他出现。他试图回忆起她的外貌，但怎么也想不起来。他只记得她头上像头巾一样围着一条围巾，她的黑眼睛吸引了他，也让他感到不安。他想知道她的心里是否也有他，就像他的心里也有她一样。然后，在黑暗中，在其他两人看不见的情况下，他将一只手的指尖放在另一只手的手掌上，几乎没有轻轻碰触。但她手指的压力变得更轻、更稳定：突然间，他们触摸的记忆像一股无形的波浪一样席​​卷了他的大脑和身体。

A boy came towards them, running along under the shed. He was excited and breathless.
一个男孩朝他们走来，在棚子下跑着。他很兴奋，气喘吁吁。

—O, Dedalus, he cried, Doyle is in a great bake about you. You’re to go in at once and get dressed for the play. Hurry up, you better.
——哦，迪达勒斯，他喊道，多伊尔对你非常着迷。你要立刻进去，穿好衣服去看戏。快点，你更好。

—He’s coming now, said Heron to the messenger with a haughty drawl, when he wants to.
——他现在就来，海伦用一种傲慢的慢吞吞的声音对信使说，只要他愿意，他就来。

The boy turned to Heron and repeated:
男孩转向海伦重复道：

—But Doyle is in an awful bake.
——但是多伊尔的处境很糟糕。

—Will you tell Doyle with my best compliments that I damned his eyes? answered Heron.
——你能用我最诚挚的赞美来告诉道尔，我玷污了他的眼睛吗？海伦回答道。

—Well, I must go now, said Stephen, who cared little for such points of honour.
——好吧，我现在必须走了，史蒂芬说道，他并不关心这些荣誉。

—I wouldn’t, said Heron, damn me if I would. That’s no way to send for one of the senior boys. In a bake, indeed! I think it’s quite enough that you’re taking a part in his bally old play.
——我不会，海伦说，如果我愿意的话，该死的。不可能派人去找一位高年级男孩。确实是在烘烤中！我认为你参与他那场精彩的老戏就足够了。

This spirit of quarrelsome comradeship which he had observed lately in his rival had not seduced Stephen from his habits of quiet obedience. He mistrusted the turbulence and doubted the sincerity of such comradeship which seemed to him a sorry anticipation of manhood. The question of honour here raised was, like all such questions, trivial to him. While his mind had been pursuing its intangible phantoms and turning in irresolution from such pursuit he had heard about him the constant voices of his father and of his masters, urging him to be a gentleman above all things and urging him to be a good catholic above all things. These voices had now come to be hollow-sounding in his ears. When the gymnasium had been opened he had heard another voice urging him to be strong and manly and healthy and when the movement towards national revival had begun to be felt in the college yet another voice had bidden him be true to his country and help to raise up her language and tradition. In the profane world, as he foresaw, a worldly voice would bid him raise up his father’s fallen state by his labours and, meanwhile, the voice of his school comrades urged him to be a decent fellow, to shield others from blame or to beg them off and to do his best to get free days for the school. And it was the din of all these hollow-sounding voices that made him halt irresolutely in the pursuit of phantoms. He gave them ear only for a time but he was happy only when he was far from them, beyond their call, alone or in the company of phantasmal comrades.
他最近在他的对手身上观察到的这种争吵的同志精神并没有使斯蒂芬放弃他安静服从的习惯。他不相信动荡，怀疑这种同志情谊的诚意，在他看来，这似乎是对成年的可悲的期待。这里提出的荣誉问题，就像所有此类问题一样，对他来说微不足道。当他的心灵一直在追寻着无形的幻影，并犹豫不决地放弃这种追寻时，他听到了他父亲和他的主人不断的声音，敦促他成为一名高于一切的绅士，敦促他成为一名优秀的天主教徒。万物。这些声音现在在他耳中变得空洞。当体育馆开放时，他听到另一个声音敦促他要坚强、有男子气概和健康，当民族复兴运动开始在学院中感受到时，另一个声音要求他忠于自己的国家，帮助提高提高她的语言和传统。正如他预见的那样，在世俗的世界里，世俗的声音会要求他通过自己的劳动来振兴父亲的堕落状态，同时，他的学校同志的声音也会敦促他做一个正派的人，保护别人免受指责或乞讨。他们离开并尽最大努力为学校争取空闲时间。正是这些空洞的声音的喧嚣，让他在追寻幻影的过程中犹豫不决。他只倾听他们的声音一段时间，但只有当他远离他们、不受他们的召唤、独自一人或与梦幻般的同志在一起时，他才会感到快乐。

In the vestry a plump fresh-faced jesuit and an elderly man, in shabby blue clothes, were dabbling in a case of paints and chalks. The boys who had been painted walked about or stood still awkwardly, touching their faces in a gingerly fashion with their furtive fingertips. In the middle of the vestry a young jesuit, who was then on a visit to the college, stood rocking himself rhythmically from the tips of his toes to his heels and back again, his hands thrust well forward into his side-pockets. His small head set off with glossy red curls and his newly shaven face agreed well with the spotless decency of his soutane and with his spotless shoes.
在小礼拜室里，一位胖乎乎的新耶稣会士和一位身穿破旧蓝色衣服的老人正在摆弄一箱颜料和粉笔。被画的男孩们要么走来走去，要么尴尬地站着，用指尖小心翼翼地摸着自己的脸。在礼拜室的中央，一位年轻的耶稣会士当时正在参观学院，他站着，从脚趾尖到脚后跟，然后再回来，有节奏地摇晃着自己，双手伸进侧袋里。他的小脑袋上长着闪亮的红色卷发，新剃过的脸与他一尘不染的体面和一尘不染的鞋子很相配。

As he watched this swaying form and tried to read for himself the legend of the priest’s mocking smile there came into Stephen’s memory a saying which he had heard from his father before he had been sent to Clongowes, that you could always tell a jesuit by the style of his clothes. At the same moment he thought he saw a likeness between his father’s mind and that of this smiling well-dressed priest: and he was aware of some desecration of the priest’s office or of the vestry itself whose silence was now routed by loud talk and joking and its air pungent with the smells of the gas-jets and the grease.
当他看着这个摇曳的身影，试图自己读一读神父嘲笑的微笑的传说时，斯蒂芬的记忆中浮现了他被送到克朗戈斯之前从他父亲那里听到的一句话：你总是可以通过他的衣服风格。与此同时，他认为他看到了父亲的思想与这位穿着考究的微笑神父的思想之间的相似之处：他意识到对神父办公室或教区本身的某种亵渎，而教区的沉默现在被大声的谈话和笑话所打破。空气中充满了燃气喷嘴和油脂的气味。

While his forehead was being wrinkled and his jaws painted black and blue by the elderly man, he listened distractedly to the voice of the plump young jesuit which bade him speak up and make his points clearly. He could hear the band playing THE LILY OF KILLARNEY and knew that in a few moments the curtain would go up. He felt no stage fright but the thought of the part he had to play humiliated him. A remembrance of some of his lines made a sudden flush rise to his painted cheeks. He saw her serious alluring eyes watching him from among the audience and their image at once swept away his scruples, leaving his will compact. Another nature seemed to have been lent him: the infection of the excitement and youth about him entered into and transformed his moody mistrustfulness. For one rare moment he seemed to be clothed in the real apparel of boyhood: and, as he stood in the wings among the other players, he shared the common mirth amid which the drop scene was hauled upwards by two able-bodied priests with violent jerks and all awry.
当他的额头被老人弄得皱巴巴的，下巴被老人涂得青一块紫一块的时候，他心不在焉地听着那个胖乎乎的年轻耶稣会士的声音，要求他说清楚，把自己的观点说清楚。他能听到乐队演奏《基拉尼百合》，并且知道片刻之后幕布就会升起。他并不怯场，但一想到自己必须扮演的角色，他就感到羞愧。想起他的一些台词，他涂满颜料的脸颊突然泛起红晕。他看到观众席中，她那双严肃而迷人的眼睛注视着他，这个形象一下子就扫除了他的顾忌，让他的意志变得更加坚定。他似乎被赋予了另一种本性：他周围的兴奋和青春的感染进入并改变了他喜怒无常的不信任感。在一个罕见的时刻，他似乎穿上了真正的少年时代的服装：当他站在其他球员的侧翼时，他分享着共同的欢乐，在这期间，下降的场景被两个身体健全的牧师用暴力拉了起来。混蛋和所有的错误。

A few moments after he found himself on the stage amid the garish gas and the dim scenery, acting before the innumerable faces of the void. It surprised him to see that the play which he had known at rehearsals for a disjointed lifeless thing had suddenly assumed a life of its own. It seemed now to play itself, he and his fellow actors aiding it with their parts. When the curtain fell on the last scene he heard the void filled with applause and, through a rift in a side scene, saw the simple body before which he had acted magically deformed, the void of faces breaking at all points and falling asunder into busy groups.
片刻后，他发现自己出现在舞台上，在浮夸的气场和昏暗的景色中，对着虚空无数的面孔表演。令他惊讶的是，他在排练时所熟悉的这部戏剧突然获得了自己的生命。现在，一切似乎都在自己上演，他和他的演员们用他们的角色来帮助它。当最后一幕落下帷幕时，他听到虚空充满了掌声，透过旁景中的裂痕，看到了他在面前表演的那个简单的身体，神奇地变形了，虚空的面孔四分五裂，四分五裂，陷入忙碌的状态。组。

He left the stage quickly and rid himself of his mummery and passed out through the chapel into the college garden. Now that the play was over his nerves cried for some further adventure. He hurried onwards as if to overtake it. The doors of the theatre were all open and the audience had emptied out. On the lines which he had fancied the moorings of an ark a few lanterns swung in the night breeze, flickering cheerlessly. He mounted the steps from the garden in haste, eager that some prey should not elude him, and forced his way through the crowd in the hall and past the two jesuits who stood watching the exodus and bowing and shaking hands with the visitors. He pushed onward nervously, feigning a still greater haste and faintly conscious of the smiles and stares and nudges which his powdered head left in its wake.
他迅速离开舞台，摆脱了自己的装腔作势，穿过教堂，走进了大学花园。现在戏已经结束了，他的神经渴望进一步的冒险。他急忙向前走去，仿佛要追上它。剧院的门全开着，观众席已经空了。在他想象中的方舟停泊处，几盏灯笼在夜风中摇曳，无情地闪烁着。他急忙从花园里走上台阶，生怕有什么猎物能逃脱他的追捕，然后强行穿过大厅里的人群，经过两位耶稣会士，他们站在那儿观看人们的出走，并与来访者鞠躬握手。他紧张地向前推进，假装更加匆忙，隐约意识到他抹了粉的脑袋留下的微笑、凝视和轻推。

When he came out on the steps he saw his family waiting for him at the first lamp. In a glance he noted that every figure of the group was familiar and ran down the steps angrily.
当他走上台阶时，他看到家人在第一盏灯下等他。他一眼就发现这群人里的每个人都很熟悉，然后愤怒地跑下了台阶。

—I have to leave a message down in George’s Street, he said to his father quickly. I’ll be home after you.
——我得去乔治街留言，他很快对父亲说。我会在你之后回家。

Without waiting for his father’s questions he ran across the road and began to walk at breakneck speed down the hill. He hardly knew where he was walking. Pride and hope and desire like crushed herbs in his heart sent up vapours of maddening incense before the eyes of his mind. He strode down the hill amid the tumult of sudden-risen vapours of wounded pride and fallen hope and baffled desire. They streamed upwards before his anguished eyes in dense and maddening fumes and passed away above him till at last the air was clear and cold again.
不等父亲问话，他就跑过马路，开始以惊人的速度朝山下走去。他几乎不知道自己正走到哪里。骄傲、希望和欲望就像他心中压碎的草药一样，在他的脑海中升起令人发狂的熏香。他大步走下山，周围突然升起一股受伤害的自尊、破灭的希望和受挫的欲望的烟雾。它们在他痛苦的眼前流淌，化作浓密而令人发狂的烟雾，在他上方消失，直到最后空气再次变得清澈而寒冷。

A film still veiled his eyes but they burned no longer. A power, akin to that which had often made anger or resentment fall from him, brought his steps to rest. He stood still and gazed up at the sombre porch of the morgue and from that to the dark cobbled laneway at its side. He saw the word LOTTS on the wall of the lane and breathed slowly the rank heavy air.
一层薄膜仍然遮住了他的眼睛，但它们不再燃烧。一股力量，类似于经常让他愤怒或怨恨的力量，让他停下了脚步。他一动不动地站着，抬头凝视着停尸房阴暗的门廊，再从那里望向旁边漆黑的鹅卵石小巷。他看到巷子墙上写着“洛茨”，慢慢地呼吸着浑浊的空气。

That is horse piss and rotted straw, he thought. It is a good odour to breathe. It will calm my heart. My heart is quite calm now. I will go back.
那是马尿和腐烂的稻草，他想。这是一种令人呼吸的好气味。它会让我的心平静下来。我的心现在已经很平静了。我会回去。

*****

Stephen was once again seated beside his father in the corner of a railway carriage at Kingsbridge. He was travelling with his father by the night mail to Cork. As the train steamed out of the station he recalled his childish wonder of years before and every event of his first day at Clongowes. But he felt no wonder now. He saw the darkening lands slipping away past him, the silent telegraph-poles passing his window swiftly every four seconds, the little glimmering stations, manned by a few silent sentries, flung by the mail behind her and twinkling for a moment in the darkness like fiery grains flung backwards by a runner.
史蒂芬再次坐在金斯布里奇火车车厢的角落里他父亲身边。他和父亲一起乘夜间邮件前往科克。当火车驶出车站时，他回想起多年前的幼稚奇迹以及来到克朗戈斯第一天发生的每件事。但他现在并不觉得奇怪了。他看到黑暗的大地从他身边溜走，沉默的电线杆每四秒就快速地经过他的窗户，那些闪闪发光的小车站，由几个沉默的哨兵把守，邮件被投掷到她身后，在黑暗中闪烁了一会儿，就像火热的颗粒被跑步者向后抛掷。

He listened without sympathy to his father’s evocation of Cork and of scenes of his youth, a tale broken by sighs or draughts from his pocket flask whenever the image of some dead friend appeared in it or whenever the evoker remembered suddenly the purpose of his actual visit. Stephen heard but could feel no pity. The images of the dead were all strangers to him save that of uncle Charles, an image which had lately been fading out of memory. He knew, however, that his father’s property was going to be sold by auction, and in the manner of his own dispossession he felt the world give the lie rudely to his phantasy.
他毫无同情心地听着他父亲对科克的回忆和他年轻时的场景，每当故事中出现某个死去的朋友的形象，或者每当唤起者突然想起他实际访问的目的时，这个故事就会被叹息或从口袋里的烧瓶里的草水打断。 。斯蒂芬听到了，但并没有感到怜悯。除了查尔斯叔叔的形象外，死者的形象对他来说都是陌生的，这个形象最近已经从记忆中消失了。然而，他知道他父亲的财产将被拍卖，并且以他自己剥夺的方式，他感到世界粗鲁地欺骗了他的幻想。

At Maryborough he fell asleep. When he awoke the train had passed out of Mallow and his father was stretched asleep on the other seat. The cold light of the dawn lay over the country, over the unpeopled fields and the closed cottages. The terror of sleep fascinated his mind as he watched the silent country or heard from time to time his father’s deep breath or sudden sleepy movement. The neighbourhood of unseen sleepers filled him with strange dread, as though they could harm him, and he prayed that the day might come quickly. His prayer, addressed neither to God nor saint, began with a shiver, as the chilly morning breeze crept through the chink of the carriage door to his feet, and ended in a trail of foolish words which he made to fit the insistent rhythm of the train; and silently, at intervals of four seconds, the telegraph-poles held the galloping notes of the music between punctual bars. This furious music allayed his dread and, leaning against the windowledge, he let his eyelids close again.
在玛丽伯勒他睡着了。当他醒来时，火车已经从马洛驶出，他的父亲在另一个座位上睡着了。黎明的寒光笼罩着大地，笼罩着无人的田野和封闭的小屋。当他看着寂静的乡村，或者不时听到父亲的深呼吸或突然的睡意时，对睡眠的恐惧让他着迷。附近那些看不见的沉睡者让他充满了奇怪的恐惧，仿佛他们会伤害他，他祈祷这一天快点到来。他的祈祷既不是对上帝，也不是对圣人，当寒冷的晨风从车厢门的缝隙爬到他脚边时，他以颤抖开始，以一连串愚蠢的话语结束，这些话语是他为配合祈祷者坚持不懈的节奏而写的。火车;每隔四秒钟，电线杆就在准时的小节之间静静地传递着音乐奔腾的音符。狂暴的音乐减轻了他的恐惧，他靠在窗台上，再次合上眼睑。

They drove in a jingle across Cork while it was still early morning and Stephen finished his sleep in a bedroom of the Victoria Hotel. The bright warm sunlight was streaming through the window and he could hear the din of traffic. His father was standing before the dressing-table, examining his hair and face and moustache with great care, craning his neck across the water-jug and drawing it back sideways to see the better. While he did so he sang softly to himself with quaint accent and phrasing:
天还很早，他们就开车穿过科克，史蒂芬在维多利亚酒店的卧室里睡完了觉。明亮温暖的阳光透过窗户照射进来，他能听到交通的喧嚣声。他的父亲站在梳妆台前，非常仔细地检查他的头发、脸和胡子，把脖子伸到水壶上，然后把它拉到一边，以便看得更清楚。当他这么做的时候，他用古雅的口音和乐句轻声地对自己唱道：

’Tis youth and folly
这就是青春和愚蠢

Makes young men marry,
让年轻人结婚，

So here, my love, I’ll
所以在这里，我的爱人，我会

No longer stay.
不再停留。

What can’t be cured, sure,
当然，还有什么是无法治愈的，

Must be injured, sure,
肯定受伤了，

So I’ll go to
所以我会去

Amerikay.
美国。


My love she’s handsome,
我的爱人她很漂亮，

My love she’s bony:
我的爱人，她骨瘦如柴：

She’s like good whisky
她就像上好的威士忌

When it is new;
当它是新的时；

But when ‘tis old
但当它老了

And growing cold
并且越来越冷

It fades and dies like
它会像这样褪色和死亡

The mountain dew.
山露。

The consciousness of the warm sunny city outside his window and the tender tremors with which his father’s voice festooned the strange sad happy air, drove off all the mists of the night’s ill humour from Stephen’s brain. He got up quickly to dress and, when the song had ended, said:
窗外温暖、阳光明媚的城市的意识，以及父亲声音中温柔的颤抖，点缀着奇怪的、悲伤的、快乐的空气，驱走了史蒂芬大脑中所有夜晚坏幽默的迷雾。他迅速起身穿好衣服，歌曲结束后说道：

—That’s much prettier than any of your other COME-ALL-YOUS.
——这比你们其他的“COME-ALL-YOUS”都要漂亮得多。

—Do you think so? asked Mr Dedalus.
——你这么认为吗？迪达勒斯先生问道。

—I like it, said Stephen.
——我喜欢它，斯蒂芬说。

—It’s a pretty old air, said Mr Dedalus, twirling the points of his moustache. Ah, but you should have heard Mick Lacy sing it! Poor Mick Lacy! He had little turns for it, grace notes that he used to put in that I haven’t got. That was the boy who could sing a COME-ALL-YOU, if you like.
——这真是一种相当古老的神情，迪达勒斯先生一边说，一边捻弄着他的小胡子尖。啊，但你应该听过米克·莱西唱的！可怜的米克·莱西！他几乎没有什么转折，他过去常常放一些装饰音，而我却没有。如果你愿意的话，那个男孩会唱一首《COME-ALL-YOU》。

Mr Dedalus had ordered drisheens for breakfast and during the meal he cross-examined the waiter for local news. For the most part they spoke at cross purposes when a name was mentioned, the waiter having in mind the present holder and Mr Dedalus his father or perhaps his grandfather.
迪达勒斯先生点了一份干早餐，在用餐期间，他盘问服务员以获取当地新闻。在大多数情况下，当提到一个名字时，他们的说话目的是相互矛盾的，侍者想到的是当前的主人和迪达勒斯先生，他的父亲，也许是他的祖父。

—Well, I hope they haven’t moved the Queen’s College anyhow, said Mr Dedalus, for I want to show it to this youngster of mine.
——好吧，我希望他们无论如何都没有搬走女王学院，迪达勒斯先生说，因为我想把它展示给我的这个孩子看。

Along the Mardyke the trees were in bloom. They entered the grounds of the college and were led by the garrulous porter across the quadrangle. But their progress across the gravel was brought to a halt after every dozen or so paces by some reply of the porter’s.
马尔代克河两岸的树木都开满了花。他们走进了学院的场地，在喋喋不休的门房的带领下穿过了四合院。但他们在砾石路上的前进，每隔十几步就会因为搬运工的回应而停顿下来。

—Ah, do you tell me so? And is poor Pottlebelly dead?
——啊，你是这么告诉我的吗？可怜的大腹便便死了吗？

—Yes, sir. Dead, sir.
-是的先生。死了，先生。

During these halts Stephen stood awkwardly behind the two men, weary of the subject and waiting restlessly for the slow march to begin again. By the time they had crossed the quadrangle his restlessness had risen to fever. He wondered how his father, whom he knew for a shrewd suspicious man, could be duped by the servile manners of the porter; and the lively southern speech which had entertained him all the morning now irritated his ears.
在这些停顿期间，斯蒂芬笨拙地站在两人身后，厌倦了这个话题，焦躁不安地等待着缓慢的行进再次开始。当他们穿过四合院时，他的焦躁不安已经达到了狂热。他想知道他的父亲，他知道他是一个精明多疑的人，怎么会被看门人的奴性行为所欺骗？整个上午都让他高兴的生动的南方语言现在却让他的耳朵感到不舒服。

They passed into the anatomy theatre where Mr Dedalus, the porter aiding him, searched the desks for his initials. Stephen remained in the background, depressed more than ever by the darkness and silence of the theatre and by the air it wore of jaded and formal study. On the desk he read the word FOETUS cut several times in the dark stained wood. The sudden legend startled his blood: he seemed to feel the absent students of the college about him and to shrink from their company. A vision of their life, which his father’s words had been powerless to evoke, sprang up before him out of the word cut in the desk. A broad-shouldered student with a moustache was cutting in the letters with a jack-knife, seriously. Other students stood or sat near him laughing at his handiwork. One jogged his elbow. The big student turned on him, frowning. He was dressed in loose grey clothes and had tan boots.
他们走进解剖室，帮他的搬运工迪达勒斯先生在桌子上搜寻他名字的首字母。斯蒂芬留在幕后，剧院的黑暗和寂静以及里面弥漫着疲惫和正式学习的气氛比以往任何时候都更加沮丧。在桌子上，他在深色染色的木头上多次看到“胎儿”这个词。这个突如其来的传说让他浑身毛骨悚然：他似乎感觉到学院里缺席的学生在他身边，并在他们的陪伴下退缩了。他父亲的话语无法唤起他们对他们生活的想象，但现在，他从桌上的文字中突然浮现出他们的生活景象。一个留着小胡子、肩膀宽阔的学生正在用折刀认真地切着字母。其他学生站在或坐在他旁边，嘲笑他的手工作品。其中一个慢跑着他的肘部。大个子学生转向他，皱起眉头。他穿着宽松的灰色衣服和棕褐色的靴子。

Stephen’s name was called. He hurried down the steps of the theatre so as to be as far away from the vision as he could be and, peering closely at his father’s initials, hid his flushed face.
斯蒂芬的名字被叫到了。他快步走下剧院的台阶，尽量远离视线，并遮住涨红的脸，仔细地看着父亲名字的首字母。

But the word and the vision capered before his eyes as he walked back across the quadrangle and towards the college gate. It shocked him to find in the outer world a trace of what he had deemed till then a brutish and individual malady of his own mind. His monstrous reveries came thronging into his memory. They too had sprung up before him, suddenly and furiously, out of mere words. He had soon given in to them and allowed them to sweep across and abase his intellect, wondering always where they came from, from what den of monstrous images, and always weak and humble towards others, restless and sickened of himself when they had swept over him.
但当他穿过四合院朝学院大门走去时，这个词和那个景象在他眼前跳跃。令他震惊的是，他在外部世界中发现了他迄今为止所认为的自己思想中的野蛮和个人弊病的痕迹。他的记忆中充斥着各种可怕的幻想。他们也凭着言语突然而猛烈地出现在他面前。他很快就屈服于它们，任由它们席卷并削弱了他的智力，总是想知道它们来自哪里，来自哪个怪物形象的巢穴，对他人总是软弱而谦卑，当它们席卷而来时，他焦躁不安，对自己感到厌恶。他。

—Ay, bedad! And there’s the Groceries sure enough! cried Mr Dedalus. You often heard me speak of the Groceries, didn’t you, Stephen. Many’s the time we went down there when our names had been marked, a crowd of us, Harry Peard and little Jack Mountain and Bob Dyas and Maurice Moriarty, the Frenchman, and Tom O’Grady and Mick Lacy that I told you of this morning and Joey Corbet and poor little good-hearted Johnny Keevers of the Tantiles.
——哎呀，该死！当然还有杂货店！迪达勒斯先生喊道。你经常听我说起杂货店，不是吗，斯蒂芬。很多时候我们去那里的时候我们的名字已经被标记了，我们一群人，哈利·皮尔德和小杰克·山，鲍勃·戴亚斯和莫里斯·莫里亚蒂，法国人，还有我今天早上告诉过你的汤姆·奥格雷迪和米克·莱西还有坦蒂尔斯的乔伊·科贝特和可怜的小好心的约翰尼·基弗斯。

The leaves of the trees along the Mardyke were astir and whispering in the sunlight. A team of cricketers passed, agile young men in flannels and blazers, one of them carrying the long green wicket-bag. In a quiet bystreet a German band of five players in faded uniforms and with battered brass instruments was playing to an audience of street arabs and leisurely messenger boys. A maid in a white cap and apron was watering a box of plants on a sill which shone like a slab of limestone in the warm glare. From another window open to the air came the sound of a piano, scale after scale rising into the treble.
马代克河沿岸的树叶在阳光下颤动着，低语着。一队板球运动员经过，他们是身着法兰绒和西装外套的敏捷年轻人，其中一人拿着长长的绿色检票袋。在一条安静的小街上，一支由五名演奏者组成的德国乐队，穿着褪色的制服，拿着破旧的铜管乐器，正在为街头阿拉伯人和悠闲的信使男孩等观众演奏。一位头戴白帽、系着围裙的女仆正在给窗台上的一箱植物浇水，窗台在温暖的阳光下闪闪发光，就像一块石灰石。从另一扇敞开的窗户里传来钢琴的声音，音阶一个接一个地上升到高音。

Stephen walked on at his father’s side, listening to stories he had heard before, hearing again the names of the scattered and dead revellers who had been the companions of his father’s youth. And a faint sickness sighed in his heart.
史蒂芬在他父亲身边继续前行，听着他以前听过的故事，再次听到那些分散的、死去的狂欢者的名字，他们是他父亲年轻时的同伴。心中也有一丝淡淡的叹息。

He recalled his own equivocal position in Belvedere, a free boy, a leader afraid of his own authority, proud and sensitive and suspicious, battling against the squalor of his life and against the riot of his mind. The letters cut in the stained wood of the desk stared upon him, mocking his bodily weakness and futile enthusiasms and making him loathe himself for his own mad and filthy orgies. The spittle in his throat grew bitter and foul to swallow and the faint sickness climbed to his brain so that for a moment he closed his eyes and walked on in darkness.
他回忆起自己在贝尔韦代雷的模棱两可的地位，一个自由的男孩，一个害怕自己权威的领导者，骄傲、敏感和多疑，与生活的肮脏和思想的骚乱作斗争。桌子上污迹斑斑的木头上刻着的字母盯着他，嘲笑他的身体虚弱和徒劳的热情，让他厌恶自己疯狂而肮脏的狂欢。他喉咙里的唾沫变得又苦又难咽，微弱的恶心感爬上了他的大脑，所以他暂时闭上了眼睛，在黑暗中继续前行。

He could still hear his father’s voice—
他还能听到父亲的声音——

—When you kick out for yourself, Stephen—as I daresay you will one of these days—remember, whatever you do, to mix with gentlemen. When I was a young fellow I tell you I enjoyed myself. I mixed with fine decent fellows. Everyone of us could do something. One fellow had a good voice, another fellow was a good actor, another could sing a good comic song, another was a good oarsman or a good racket player, another could tell a good story and so on. We kept the ball rolling anyhow and enjoyed ourselves and saw a bit of life and we were none the worse of it either. But we were all gentlemen, Stephen—at least I hope we were—and bloody good honest Irishmen too. That’s the kind of fellows I want you to associate with, fellows of the right kidney. I’m talking to you as a friend, Stephen. I don’t believe a son should be afraid of his father. No, I treat you as your grandfather treated me when I was a young chap. We were more like brothers than father and son. I’ll never forget the first day he caught me smoking. I was standing at the end of the South Terrace one day with some maneens like myself and sure we thought we were grand fellows because we had pipes stuck in the corners of our mouths. Suddenly the governor passed. He didn’t say a word, or stop even. But the next day, Sunday, we were out for a walk together and when we were coming home he took out his cigar case and said:—By the by, Simon, I didn’t know you smoked, or something like that.—Of course I tried to carry it off as best I could.—If you want a good smoke, he said, try one of these cigars. An American captain made me a present of them last night in Queenstown.
——斯蒂芬，当你为自己而奋斗时——我敢说有一天你也会——记住，无论你做什么，都要与绅士们打交道。当我还是个年轻人的时候，我告诉你我很享受自己。我和一些正派的好人混在一起。我们每个人都可以做点什么。一个人有一副好声音，另一个人是一个好演员，另一个人能唱一首好喜剧歌曲，另一个人是一个好的桨手或一个好的球拍手，另一个人可以讲一个好故事等等。不管怎样，我们继续前进，享受生活，看到了一些生活，我们也没有受到任何影响。但我们都是绅士，斯蒂芬——至少我希望我们是——而且也是非常诚实的爱尔兰人。我希望你与这样的人交往，右肾的人。我正在以朋友的身份与你交谈，斯蒂芬。我不认为儿子应该害怕他的父亲。不，我对待你就像你祖父在我年轻时对待我一样。我们更像兄弟而不是父子。我永远不会忘记他第一天发现我抽烟的情景。有一天，我和一些像我一样的马宁人站在南台的尽头，我们确信我们是伟大的家伙，因为我们嘴角插着管子。突然，州长过去了。他没有说话，甚至没有停下来。但第二天，周日，我们一起出去散步，当我们回家时，他拿出雪茄盒说：——顺便说一句，西蒙，我不知道你抽烟，或者类似的事情。——当然，我尽我所能地把它带走。——如果你想抽一口好烟，他说，试试这些雪茄吧。昨晚，一位美国船长在皇后镇送给我一份礼物。

Stephen heard his father’s voice break into a laugh which was almost a sob.
斯蒂芬听到父亲的声音突然笑了起来，几乎是抽泣。

—He was the handsomest man in Cork at that time, by God he was! The women used to stand to look after him in the street.
——他是当时科克最英俊的男人，天哪，他真是！妇女们常常站在街上照顾他。

He heard the sob passing loudly down his father’s throat and opened his eyes with a nervous impulse. The sunlight breaking suddenly on his sight turned the sky and clouds into a fantastic world of sombre masses with lakelike spaces of dark rosy light. His very brain was sick and powerless. He could scarcely interpret the letters of the signboards of the shops. By his monstrous way of life he seemed to have put himself beyond the limits of reality. Nothing moved him or spoke to him from the real world unless he heard in it an echo of the infuriated cries within him. He could respond to no earthly or human appeal, dumb and insensible to the call of summer and gladness and companionship, wearied and dejected by his father’s voice. He could scarcely recognize as his own thoughts, and repeated slowly to himself:
他听到父亲的喉咙里传来大声的抽泣声，他紧张地睁开了眼睛。阳光突然照射到他的视线上，天空和云彩变成了一个阴沉的梦幻世界，湖水般的空间闪烁着暗玫瑰色的光芒。他的大脑已经病了，无力了。他几乎看不懂商店招牌上的字母。他的生活方式似乎已经超出了现实的极限。现实世界中没有任何东西能感动他或对他说话，除非他听到现实世界中他内心愤怒的呼喊的回声。他无法回应任何世俗或人类的呼吁，对夏天、快乐和陪伴的召唤变得沉默而无知，对父亲的声音感到疲倦和沮丧。他几乎无法辨认出那是自己的想法，慢慢地自言自语道：

—I am Stephen Dedalus. I am walking beside my father whose name is Simon Dedalus. We are in Cork, in Ireland. Cork is a city. Our room is in the Victoria Hotel. Victoria and Stephen and Simon. Simon and Stephen and Victoria. Names.
——我是斯蒂芬·迪达勒斯。我走在我父亲身边，他的名字叫西蒙·迪达勒斯。我们在爱尔兰的科克。科克是一座城市。我们的房间在维多利亚酒店。维多利亚、斯蒂芬和西蒙。西蒙、斯蒂芬和维多利亚。名字。

The memory of his childhood suddenly grew dim. He tried to call forth some of its vivid moments but could not. He recalled only names. Dante, Parnell, Clane, Clongowes. A little boy had been taught geography by an old woman who kept two brushes in her wardrobe. Then he had been sent away from home to a college, he had made his first communion and eaten slim jim out of his cricket cap and watched the firelight leaping and dancing on the wall of a little bedroom in the infirmary and dreamed of being dead, of mass being said for him by the rector in a black and gold cope, of being buried then in the little graveyard of the community off the main avenue of limes. But he had not died then. Parnell had died. There had been no mass for the dead in the chapel and no procession. He had not died but he had faded out like a film in the sun. He had been lost or had wandered out of existence for he no longer existed. How strange to think of him passing out of existence in such a way, not by death but by fading out in the sun or by being lost and forgotten somewhere in the universe! It was strange to see his small body appear again for a moment: a little boy in a grey belted suit. His hands were in his side-pockets and his trousers were tucked in at the knees by elastic bands.
童年的记忆突然变得模糊。他试图唤起一些生动的时刻，但失败了。他只记得名字。但丁、帕内尔、克莱恩、克朗戈维斯。一位老妇人在衣柜里放了两把刷子，教一个小男孩地理。然后他被送离家去一所大学，他做了第一次圣餐，吃了板球帽里的苗条吉姆，看着火光在医务室的一间小卧室的墙上跳动，梦见自己死了，穿着黑色和金色礼帽的教区长为他做弥撒，然后被埋葬在石灰主要大道附近社区的小墓地里。但那时他还没有死。帕内尔去世了。教堂里没有为死者举行弥撒，也没有游行。他没有死，但已经像阳光下的胶片一样消失了。他已经迷失了或者已经消失了，因为他不再存在了。想到他以这样的方式消失，不是因为死亡，而是因为在阳光下消失，或者是在宇宙的某个地方迷失和被遗忘，这是多么奇怪啊！奇怪的是，他小小的身躯再次出现了一会儿：一个穿着灰色束带套装的小男孩。他的双手插在侧袋里，裤子的膝盖处用松紧带塞进裤子里。

On the evening of the day on which the property was sold Stephen followed his father meekly about the city from bar to bar. To the sellers in the market, to the barmen and barmaids, to the beggars who importuned him for a lob Mr Dedalus told the same tale—that he was an old Corkonian, that he had been trying for thirty years to get rid of his Cork accent up in Dublin and that Peter Pickackafax beside him was his eldest son but that he was only a Dublin jackeen.
出售财产的那天晚上，斯蒂芬温顺地跟着他的父亲在城里从一家酒吧到另一家酒吧。迪达勒斯先生对市场上的小贩、酒保和酒吧女招待、向他索要吊球的乞丐都说了同样的故事——他是一个老科科尼亚人，三十年来他一直在努力摆脱他的软木塞。都柏林口音很重，旁边的彼得·皮卡法克斯是他的长子，但他只是都柏林人。

They had set out early in the morning from Newcombe’s coffee-house, where Mr Dedalus’s cup had rattled noisily against its saucer, and Stephen had tried to cover that shameful sign of his father’s drinking bout of the night before by moving his chair and coughing. One humiliation had succeeded another—the false smiles of the market sellers, the curvetings and oglings of the barmaids with whom his father flirted, the compliments and encouraging words of his father’s friends. They had told him that he had a great look of his grandfather and Mr Dedalus had agreed that he was an ugly likeness. They had unearthed traces of a Cork accent in his speech and made him admit that the Lee was a much finer river than the Liffey. One of them, in order to put his Latin to the proof, had made him translate short passages from Dilectus and asked him whether it was correct to say: TEMPORA MUTANTUR NOS ET MUTAMUR IN ILLIS or TEMPORA MUTANTUR ET NOS MUTAMUR IN ILLIS. Another, a brisk old man, whom Mr Dedalus called Johnny Cashman, had covered him with confusion by asking him to say which were prettier, the Dublin girls or the Cork girls.
他们一早从纽科姆的咖啡馆出发，迪达勒斯先生的杯子在茶托上发出嘎嘎声，史蒂芬试图通过移动椅子和咳嗽来掩盖他父亲前一天晚上酗酒的可耻迹象。羞辱接踵而至——市场小贩的虚假微笑，与他父亲调情的酒吧女招待的弯腰和目光，他父亲朋友们的赞美和鼓励的话。他们告诉他，他长得很像他的祖父，而迪达勒斯先生也同意他长得很丑。他们在他的讲话中发现了科克口音的痕迹，并让他承认李河是一条比利菲河好得多的河流。其中一个，为了证明他的拉丁语，让他翻译《Dilectus》中的短文，并问他这样说是否正确：TEMPORA MUTANTUR NOS ET MUTAMUR IN ILLIS 或 TEMPORA MUTANTUR ET NOS MUTAMUR IN ILLIS。另一位是一位精力充沛的老人，德达勒斯先生称他为约翰尼·卡什曼，他让他说出都柏林女孩和科克女孩哪个更漂亮，这让他感到困惑。

—He’s not that way built, said Mr Dedalus. Leave him alone. He’s a level-headed thinking boy who doesn’t bother his head about that kind of nonsense.
——他不是那样的人，迪达勒斯先生说。留下他一个人。他是一个头脑冷静、思考能力强的男孩，不会为这种废话而烦恼。

—Then he’s not his father’s son, said the little old man.
——那他就不是他父亲的儿子了，小老头说道。

—I don’t know, I’m sure, said Mr Dedalus, smiling complacently.
——我不知道，但我确定，迪达勒斯先生得意地微笑着说道。

—Your father, said the little old man to Stephen, was the boldest flirt in the City of Cork in his day. Do you know that?
——你的父亲，小老头对斯蒂芬说，是他那个时代科克市最大胆的调情者。你知道吗？

Stephen looked down and studied the tiled floor of the bar into which they had drifted.
斯蒂芬低下头，研究着他们走进的酒吧的瓷砖地板。

—Now don’t be putting ideas into his head, said Mr Dedalus. Leave him to his Maker.
——现在不要把想法灌输给他的头脑，迪达勒斯先生说。将他留给他的创造者。

—Yerra, sure I wouldn’t put any ideas into his head. I’m old enough to be his grandfather. And I am a grandfather, said the little old man to Stephen. Do you know that?
——耶拉，我当然不会把任何想法灌输给他。我已经够大了，可以当他的祖父了。 “我是祖父了，”小老头对斯蒂芬说。你知道吗？

—Are you? asked Stephen.
-你是？史蒂芬问道。

—Bedad I am, said the little old man. I have two bouncing grandchildren out at Sunday’s Well. Now, then! What age do you think I am? And I remember seeing your grandfather in his red coat riding out to hounds. That was before you were born.
——我就是，小老头说。我有两个活泼的孙子在周日井。接着！你认为我几岁了？我记得看到你的祖父穿着红色外套骑马出去追猎犬。那是在你出生之前。

—Ay, or thought of, said Mr Dedalus.
——嗯，或者说想到了，迪达勒斯先生说。

—Bedad I did, repeated the little old man. And, more than that, I can remember even your great-grandfather, old John Stephen Dedalus, and a fierce old fire-eater he was. Now, then! There’s a memory for you!
——我做到了，小老头重复道。不仅如此，我什至还记得你的曾祖父老约翰·斯蒂芬·迪达勒斯，他是一个凶猛的老食火者。接着！总有一个属于你的回忆！

—That’s three generations—four generations, said another of the company. Why, Johnny Cashman, you must be nearing the century.
——那是三代人——四代人，”该公司的另一位人士说。约翰尼·卡什曼，你一定快到本世纪了。

—Well, I’ll tell you the truth, said the little old man. I’m just twenty-seven years of age.
——好吧，我就实话实说吧，小老头说道。我今年才二十七岁。

—We’re as old as we feel, Johnny, said Mr Dedalus. And just finish what you have there and we’ll have another. Here, Tim or Tom or whatever your name is, give us the same again here. By God, I don’t feel more than eighteen myself. There’s that son of mine there not half my age and I’m a better man than he is any day of the week.
——我们感觉自己老了，约翰尼，迪达勒斯先生说。只要完成你现有的，我们就会再做一个。在这里，蒂姆或汤姆或无论你叫什么名字，请再次给我们同样的名字。老天爷啊，我自己感觉不到十八岁。我的儿子年龄还不到我的一半，而我比他一周中的任何一天都是一个更好的人。

—Draw it mild now, Dedalus. I think it’s time for you to take a back seat, said the gentleman who had spoken before.
——现在温和点吧，代达勒斯。 “我想你是时候退居二线了，”之前发言的那位先生说道。

—No, by God! asserted Mr Dedalus. I’ll sing a tenor song against him or I’ll vault a five-barred gate against him or I’ll run with him after the hounds across the country as I did thirty years ago along with the Kerry Boy and the best man for it.
——不，天啊！迪达勒斯先生断言。我会唱一首男高音歌曲来对抗他，或者我会跳过五道栅栏门来对抗他，或者我会和他一起追赶全国各地的猎犬，就像三十年前我和凯里男孩和最好的男人一起跑一样。它。

—But he’ll beat you here, said the little old man, tapping his forehead and raising his glass to drain it.
——但他会在这里打败你，小老头一边说，一边拍着额头，举起酒杯一饮而尽。

—Well, I hope he’ll be as good a man as his father. That’s all I can say, said Mr Dedalus.
——嗯，我希望他能像他父亲一样成为一个好人。我只能说这么多，迪达勒斯先生说。

—If he is, he’ll do, said the little old man.
——如果是的话，他就这么做，小老头说。

—And thanks be to God, Johnny, said Mr Dedalus, that we lived so long and did so little harm.
——感谢上帝，约翰尼，迪达勒斯先生说，我们活了这么久，没有造成什么伤害。

—But did so much good, Simon, said the little old man gravely. Thanks be to God we lived so long and did so much good.
——但是，西蒙，你做了很多好事，小老头严肃地说。感谢上帝，我们活了这么久，做了这么多善事。

Stephen watched the three glasses being raised from the counter as his father and his two cronies drank to the memory of their past. An abyss of fortune or of temperament sundered him from them. His mind seemed older than theirs: it shone coldly on their strifes and happiness and regrets like a moon upon a younger earth. No life or youth stirred in him as it had stirred in them. He had known neither the pleasure of companionship with others nor the vigour of rude male health nor filial piety. Nothing stirred within his soul but a cold and cruel and loveless lust. His childhood was dead or lost and with it his soul capable of simple joys and he was drifting amid life like the barren shell of the moon.
斯蒂芬看着柜台上的三个杯子被举起来，他的父亲和他的两个密友喝酒以纪念他们的过去。财富或性情的深渊将他与他们分开了。他的思想似乎比他们更古老：它冷冷地照耀着他们的争吵、幸福和悔恨，就像月亮照在年轻的地球上一样。他的生命和青春不再像他们那样激动。他既不知道与他人交往的乐趣，也不知道粗鲁的男性健康的活力和孝道。他的灵魂里除了冷酷、残忍、无爱的欲望之外，没有任何东西在搅动。他的童年已经消逝或迷失了，他的灵魂也随之消失了，他的灵魂能够享受简单的快乐，而他就像贫瘠的月球外壳一样在生活中漂流。

Art thou pale for weariness Of climbing heaven and gazing on the earth, Wandering companionless... ?
你是否因登天望地、孤身流浪而疲倦而苍白？

He repeated to himself the lines of Shelley’s fragment. Its alternation of sad human ineffectiveness with vast inhuman cycles of activity chilled him and he forgot his own human and ineffectual grieving.
他对自己重复了雪莱片段中的台词。悲伤的人性无能与巨大的非人性活动循环的交替让他感到寒冷，他忘记了自己的人性和无效的悲伤。

*****

Stephen’s mother and his brother and one of his cousins waited at the corner of quiet Foster Place while he and his father went up the steps and along the colonnade where the Highland sentry was parading. When they had passed into the great hall and stood at the counter Stephen drew forth his orders on the governor of the bank of Ireland for thirty and three pounds; and these sums, the moneys of his exhibition and essay prize, were paid over to him rapidly by the teller in notes and in coin respectively. He bestowed them in his pockets with feigned composure and suffered the friendly teller, to whom his father chatted, to take his hand across the broad counter and wish him a brilliant career in after life. He was impatient of their voices and could not keep his feet at rest. But the teller still deferred the serving of others to say he was living in changed times and that there was nothing like giving a boy the best education that money could buy. Mr Dedalus lingered in the hall gazing about him and up at the roof and telling Stephen, who urged him to come out, that they were standing in the house of commons of the old Irish parliament.
斯蒂芬的母亲、他的兄弟和他的一个表兄弟在安静的福斯特广场的拐角处等着，而他和他的父亲则走上台阶，沿着高地哨兵正在巡游的柱廊。当他们走进大厅，站在柜台前时，斯蒂芬向爱尔兰银行行长提出了三十又三英镑的命令。这些钱，即他的展览费和论文奖的钱，很快就被出纳员分别用纸币和硬币支付给了他。他假装镇定地把它们放进口袋里，并让友好的出纳员（他父亲正在与他交谈）把手放在宽阔的柜台上，祝他来世事业辉煌。他对他们的声音感到不耐烦，无法让自己停下来。但出纳员仍然推迟了其他人的服务，说他生活在一个变化的时代，没有什么比给一个男孩提供金钱所能买到的最好的教育更好的了。迪达勒斯先生在大厅里徘徊，凝视着他周围，抬头看着屋顶，告诉斯蒂芬，他敦促他出来，他们正站在旧爱尔兰议会的下议院。

—God help us! he said piously, to think of the men of those times, Stephen, Hely Hutchinson and Flood and Henry Grattan and Charles Kendal Bushe, and the noblemen we have now, leaders of the Irish people at home and abroad. Why, by God, they wouldn’t be seen dead in a ten-acre field with them. No, Stephen, old chap, I’m sorry to say that they are only as I roved out one fine May morning in the merry month of sweet July.
-上帝帮助我们！他虔诚地说，想想那个时代的人物，斯蒂芬、海利·哈钦森、弗拉德、亨利·格拉坦和查尔斯·肯德尔·布什，以及我们现在的贵族，国内外爱尔兰人民的领袖。天哪，人们不会看到他们和他们一起死在十英亩的田野里。不，史蒂芬，老伙计，我很遗憾地说，它们只是在我在甜蜜的七月里的一个晴朗的五月早晨外出时才出现的。

A keen October wind was blowing round the bank. The three figures standing at the edge of the muddy path had pinched cheeks and watery eyes. Stephen looked at his thinly clad mother and remembered that a few days before he had seen a mantle priced at twenty guineas in the windows of Barnardo’s.
十月的凛冽寒风正吹过河岸。泥泞小路边站着的三个人影，脸颊紧绷，眼睛湿润。斯蒂芬看着他衣着单薄的母亲，想起几天前他在巴纳多家的窗户上看到了一件价值二十几尼的斗篷。

—Well that’s done, said Mr Dedalus.
——好了，完成了，迪达勒斯先生说。

—We had better go to dinner, said Stephen. Where?
——我们最好去吃晚饭了，史蒂芬说。在哪里？

—Dinner? said Mr Dedalus. Well, I suppose we had better, what?
-晚餐？迪达勒斯先生说。好吧，我想我们应该更好，什么？

—Some place that’s not too dear, said Mrs Dedalus.
——某个不太昂贵的地方，迪达勒斯太太说。

—Underdone’s?
——未完成的？

—Yes. Some quiet place.
-是的。一些安静的地方。

—Come along, said Stephen quickly. It doesn’t matter about the dearness.
——来吧，史蒂芬很快说道。与亲情无关。

He walked on before them with short nervous steps, smiling. They tried to keep up with him, smiling also at his eagerness.
他面带微笑，迈着紧张的小步走在他们面前。他们试图跟上他，也对他的热切微笑。

—Take it easy like a good young fellow, said his father. We’re not out for the half mile, are we?
——像个好年轻人一样放松点，他的父亲说。我们并没有出去半英里，是吗？

For a swift season of merrymaking the money of his prizes ran through Stephen’s fingers. Great parcels of groceries and delicacies and dried fruits arrived from the city. Every day he drew up a bill of fare for the family and every night led a party of three or four to the theatre to see INGOMAR or THE LADY OF LYONS. In his coat pockets he carried squares of Vienna chocolate for his guests while his trousers’ pocket bulged with masses of silver and copper coins. He bought presents for everyone, overhauled his room, wrote out resolutions, marshalled his books up and down their shelves, pored upon all kinds of price lists, drew up a form of commonwealth for the household by which every member of it held some office, opened a loan bank for his family and pressed loans on willing borrowers so that he might have the pleasure of making out receipts and reckoning the interests on the sums lent. When he could do no more he drove up and down the city in trams. Then the season of pleasure came to an end. The pot of pink enamel paint gave out and the wainscot of his bedroom remained with its unfinished and ill-plastered coat.
在一个短暂的狂欢赛季中，他的奖金从斯蒂芬的手指间溜走了。大包的杂货、美味佳肴和干果从城里运来。每天他都会为全家制定一份账单，每天晚上都会带领三四人去剧院看《英戈马尔》或《里昂夫人》。他的外套口袋里装着几块送给客人的维也纳巧克力，裤子的口袋里装满了大量的银币和铜币。他给每个人都买了礼物，彻底检查了他的房间，写下了决心，整理了书架上的书，仔细研究了各种价目表，为家庭制定了一种联邦形式，其中每个成员都担任一些职务，他为家人开设了一家贷款银行，向愿意借款的人提供贷款，这样他就可以愉快地开具收据并计算贷款的利息。当他无能为力时，他就开着有轨电车在城市里来回穿梭。然后，愉快的季节就结束了。那罐粉红色的珐琅漆已经用完了，他卧室的壁板还残留着未完成、抹灰不良的外衣。

His household returned to its usual way of life. His mother had no further occasion to upbraid him for squandering his money. He too returned to his old life at school and all his novel enterprises fell to pieces. The commonwealth fell, the loan bank closed its coffers and its books on a sensible loss, the rules of life which he had drawn about himself fell into desuetude.
他的家人恢复了平常的生活方式。他的母亲没有理由再责备他乱花钱。他也回到了原来的学校生活，他所有的小说事业都崩溃了。联邦崩溃了，贷款银行因合理损失而关闭了金库和账簿，他为自己制定的生活规则也随之废止。

How foolish his aim had been! He had tried to build a break-water of order and elegance against the sordid tide of life without him and to dam up, by rules of conduct and active interest and new filial relations, the powerful recurrence of the tides within him. Useless. From without as from within the waters had flowed over his barriers: their tides began once more to jostle fiercely above the crumbled mole.
他的目标是多么愚蠢啊！他试图建立一道秩序和优雅的防波堤，抵御没有他的生活的肮脏浪潮，并通过行为规则、积极的兴趣和新的孝顺关系，阻止他内心浪潮的强大复发。无用。海水从外部和内部流过他的屏障：潮水再次开始在破碎的鼹鼠上方猛烈地冲撞。

He saw clearly too his own futile isolation. He had not gone one step nearer the lives he had sought to approach nor bridged the restless shame and rancour that had divided him from mother and brother and sister. He felt that he was hardly of the one blood with them but stood to them rather in the mystical kinship of fosterage, fosterchild and fosterbrother.
他也清楚地看到自己徒劳的孤立。他没有更接近他想要接近的生活，也没有弥合将他与母亲、兄弟姐妹分开的不安的耻辱和怨恨。他觉得自己与他们并非同一血缘关系，而是与他们有着神秘的寄养、养子和养兄弟的血缘关系。

He turned to appease the fierce longings of his heart before which everything else was idle and alien. He cared little that he was in mortal sin, that his life had grown to be a tissue of subterfuge and falsehood. Beside the savage desire within him to realize the enormities which he brooded on nothing was sacred. He bore cynically with the shameful details of his secret riots in which he exulted to defile with patience whatever image had attracted his eyes. By day and by night he moved among distorted images of the outer world. A figure that had seemed to him by day demure and innocent came towards him by night through the winding darkness of sleep, her face transfigured by a lecherous cunning, her eyes bright with brutish joy. Only the morning pained him with its dim memory of dark orgiastic riot, its keen and humiliating sense of transgression.
他转过身来安抚内心强烈的渴望，在这之前，一切都是闲散而陌生的。他不在乎自己是否犯了大罪，也不在乎他的生活已经变成了一堆诡计和谎言。除了他内心深处想要认识到他所沉思的暴行之外，没有什么是神圣的。他愤世嫉俗地忍受着他秘密骚乱的可耻细节，在这些骚乱中，他兴高采烈地耐心地玷污了吸引他目光的任何形象。白天和黑夜，他都在外部世界扭曲的形象中穿梭。一个白天在他看来端庄天真的身影，到了晚上，穿过蜿蜒的睡眠黑暗，向他走来，她的脸因好色而狡猾，她的眼睛闪烁着野蛮的喜悦。只有早晨的黑暗狂欢骚乱的模糊记忆，以及强烈而羞辱性的越轨感让他痛苦不已。

He returned to his wanderings. The veiled autumnal evenings led him from street to street as they had led him years before along the quiet avenues of Blackrock. But no vision of trim front gardens or of kindly lights in the windows poured a tender influence upon him now. Only at times, in the pauses of his desire, when the luxury that was wasting him gave room to a softer languor, the image of Mercedes traversed the background of his memory. He saw again the small white house and the garden of rose-bushes on the road that led to the mountains and he remembered the sadly proud gesture of refusal which he was to make there, standing with her in the moonlit garden after years of estrangement and adventure. At those moments the soft speeches of Claude Melnotte rose to his lips and eased his unrest. A tender premonition touched him of the tryst he had then looked forward to and, in spite of the horrible reality which lay between his hope of then and now, of the holy encounter he had then imagined at which weakness and timidity and inexperience were to fall from him.
他又回到了他的流浪之路。朦胧的秋夜带领他从一条街走到另一条街，就像多年前带领他沿着黑石安静的大道行走一样。但现在，修剪整齐的前花园或窗户里柔和的灯光都不再对他产生温柔的影响。只是有时，当他的欲望暂停时，当浪费他的奢侈给一种更柔和的倦怠腾出空间时，梅赛德斯的形象就会在他的记忆背景中出现。他再次看到了那座白色的小房子和通往山上的路上的玫瑰花园，他想起了在多年的疏远之后，他和她站在月光下的花园里，他要做出的悲伤而自豪的拒绝姿态。冒险。就在这时，克洛德·梅尔诺特轻柔的话语出现在他的唇边，缓解了他的不安。一种温柔的预感触动了他当时所期待的幽会，尽管当时的希望与现在之间存在着可怕的现实，但他当时所想象的神圣相遇却让他变得软弱、胆怯和缺乏经验。从他身上。

Such moments passed and the wasting fires of lust sprang up again. The verses passed from his lips and the inarticulate cries and the unspoken brutal words rushed forth from his brain to force a passage. His blood was in revolt. He wandered up and down the dark slimy streets peering into the gloom of lanes and doorways, listening eagerly for any sound. He moaned to himself like some baffled prowling beast. He wanted to sin with another of his kind, to force another being to sin with him and to exult with her in sin. He felt some dark presence moving irresistibly upon him from the darkness, a presence subtle and murmurous as a flood filling him wholly with itself. Its murmur besieged his ears like the murmur of some multitude in sleep; its subtle streams penetrated his being. His hands clenched convulsively and his teeth set together as he suffered the agony of its penetration. He stretched out his arms in the street to hold fast the frail swooning form that eluded him and incited him: and the cry that he had strangled for so long in his throat issued from his lips. It broke from him like a wail of despair from a hell of sufferers and died in a wail of furious entreaty, a cry for an iniquitous abandonment, a cry which was but the echo of an obscene scrawl which he had read on the oozing wall of a urinal.
这样的时刻过去了，浪费的欲望之火再次燃起。诗句从他的嘴唇里传出，含糊不清的哭声和无声的残酷话语从他的大脑中涌出，强行通过。他的血液在反抗。他在黑暗、黏糊糊的街道上来回徘徊，凝视着昏暗的小巷和门口，急切地倾听着任何声音。他像一头困惑的徘徊的野兽一样自言自语。他想与另一个同类一起犯罪，强迫另一个人与他一起犯罪，并与她一起在罪孽中欢欣鼓舞。他感到某种黑暗的存在不可抗拒地从黑暗中向他袭来，这种存在微妙而低语，就像洪水完全充满了他。它的低语声包围着他的耳朵，就像一群人在熟睡时的低语声一样。它微妙的溪流渗透了他的存在。他的双手痉挛地握紧，牙齿咬紧，承受着它穿透的痛苦。他在街上伸出双臂，紧紧抓住那个躲避他、刺激他的虚弱昏厥的躯体：他长久以来压抑在喉咙里的哭声从他的嘴唇里发出。它从他身上爆发出来，就像来自地狱的受难者发出的绝望的哀号，最后在愤怒恳求的哀号中消亡，这是对不公正的遗弃的呼喊，这呼声只不过是他在渗水的墙上读到的淫秽潦草的回声。一个小便池。

He had wandered into a maze of narrow and dirty streets. From the foul laneways he heard bursts of hoarse riot and wrangling and the drawling of drunken singers. He walked onward, dismayed, wondering whether he had strayed into the quarter of the Jews. Women and girls dressed in long vivid gowns traversed the street from house to house. They were leisurely and perfumed. A trembling seized him and his eyes grew dim. The yellow gas-flames arose before his troubled vision against the vapoury sky, burning as if before an altar. Before the doors and in the lighted halls groups were gathered arrayed as for some rite. He was in another world: he had awakened from a slumber of centuries.
他走进了狭窄而肮脏的街道迷宫。从肮脏的巷道里，他听到一阵阵嘶哑的骚乱、争吵声和醉酒歌手拖长拖腔的声音。他沮丧地继续前行，怀疑自己是否误入了犹太人的聚居地。妇女和女孩穿着鲜艳的长袍，挨家挨户地走在街上。他们悠闲自在，香气四溢。他浑身颤抖，眼神变得暗淡。黄色的气体火焰在他困惑的视野中升起，映衬着雾气弥漫的天空，仿佛在祭坛前燃烧。门前和灯火通明的大厅里，一群群人聚集在一起，就像在举行某种仪式。他身处另一个世界：他从数百年的沉睡中醒来。

He stood still in the middle of the roadway, his heart clamouring against his bosom in a tumult. A young woman dressed in a long pink gown laid her hand on his arm to detain him and gazed into his face. She said gaily:
他一动不动地站在马路中央，心脏在怀里剧烈地跳动。一名身穿粉红色长袍的年轻女子把手放在他的手臂上拦住他，凝视着他的脸。她高兴地说：

—Good night, Willie dear!
——晚安，亲爱的威利！

Her room was warm and lightsome. A huge doll sat with her legs apart in the copious easy-chair beside the bed. He tried to bid his tongue speak that he might seem at ease, watching her as she undid her gown, noting the proud conscious movements of her perfumed head.
她的房间温暖而明亮。床边宽大的安乐椅上坐着一个巨大的娃娃，双腿分开。他试图让自己的舌头说话，让自己显得轻松自在，看着她解开长袍，注意到她散发着香水的头骄傲的有意识的动作。

As he stood silent in the middle of the room she came over to him and embraced him gaily and gravely. Her round arms held him firmly to her and he, seeing her face lifted to him in serious calm and feeling the warm calm rise and fall of her breast, all but burst into hysterical weeping. Tears of joy and relief shone in his delighted eyes and his lips parted though they would not speak.
当他静静地站在房间中央时，她走到他身边，快乐而严肃地拥抱了他。她圆圆的手臂紧紧地把他抱在怀里，他看到她严肃而平静地抬起脸来面对他，感受着她胸膛温暖而平静的起伏，几乎要歇斯底里地哭泣起来。他高兴的眼睛里闪烁着喜悦和宽慰的泪水，他的嘴唇张开，但没有说话。

She passed her tinkling hand through his hair, calling him a little rascal.
她用叮当作响的手梳理他的头发，骂他是个小流氓。

—Give me a kiss, she said.
——吻我一下，她说。

His lips would not bend to kiss her. He wanted to be held firmly in her arms, to be caressed slowly, slowly, slowly. In her arms he felt that he had suddenly become strong and fearless and sure of himself. But his lips would not bend to kiss her.
他的嘴唇不肯弯下身去吻她。他想要被她牢牢地抱在怀里，被她慢慢地、慢慢地、慢慢地爱抚。在她的怀里，他感觉自己突然变得坚强、无畏、自信。但他的嘴唇却不愿弯下腰去吻她。

With a sudden movement she bowed his head and joined her lips to his and he read the meaning of her movements in her frank uplifted eyes. It was too much for him. He closed his eyes, surrendering himself to her, body and mind, conscious of nothing in the world but the dark pressure of her softly parting lips. They pressed upon his brain as upon his lips as though they were the vehicle of a vague speech; and between them he felt an unknown and timid pressure, darker than the swoon of sin, softer than sound or odour.
她突然动作，低下头，将嘴唇贴在他的嘴唇上，他从她坦率的抬起的眼睛里读出了她动作的含义。这对他来说太过分了。他闭上眼睛，把自己的身体和思想都交给她，除了她轻轻张开的嘴唇的黑暗压力之外，他对世界上一无所知。它们压在他的大脑上，就像压在他的嘴唇上一样，仿佛它们是含糊言语的载体。在他们之间，他感到一种未知而胆怯的压力，比罪恶的昏迷更黑暗，比声音或气味更柔和。

Chapter 3
第3章

The swift December dusk had come tumbling clownishly after its dull day and, as he stared through the dull square of the window of the schoolroom, he felt his belly crave for its food. He hoped there would be stew for dinner, turnips and carrots and bruised potatoes and fat mutton pieces to be ladled out in thick peppered flour-fattened sauce. Stuff it into you, his belly counselled him.
十二月的黄昏在沉闷的一天之后滑稽地降临，当他透过教室的方形窗户凝视时，他感到自己的肚子渴望食物。他希望晚餐能有炖菜、萝卜、胡萝卜、碎土豆和肥羊肉块，用勺子盛在厚厚的胡椒粉肥酱里。把它塞进你的肚子里，他的肚子劝告他。

It would be a gloomy secret night. After early nightfall the yellow lamps would light up, here and there, the squalid quarter of the brothels. He would follow a devious course up and down the streets, circling always nearer and nearer in a tremor of fear and joy, until his feet led him suddenly round a dark corner. The whores would be just coming out of their houses making ready for the night, yawning lazily after their sleep and settling the hairpins in their clusters of hair. He would pass by them calmly waiting for a sudden movement of his own will or a sudden call to his sin-loving soul from their soft perfumed flesh. Yet as he prowled in quest of that call, his senses, stultified only by his desire, would note keenly all that wounded or shamed them; his eyes, a ring of porter froth on a clothless table or a photograph of two soldiers standing to attention or a gaudy playbill; his ears, the drawling jargon of greeting:
这将是一个阴郁、秘密的夜晚。夜幕降临后，妓院肮脏的地方到处都会亮起黄灯。他会在街道上走来走去，在恐惧和喜悦的颤抖中绕得越来越近，直到他的脚突然带他绕过一个黑暗的角落。妓女们刚从家里出来，准备过夜，睡完后懒洋洋地打着哈欠，把发夹别在头发上。他会平静地从他们身边走过，等待着自己意志的突然行动，或者等待他们柔软的芳香肉体对他热爱罪恶的灵魂的突然召唤。然而，当他四处寻找那个召唤时，他的感官，只因他的欲望而变得迟钝，会敏锐地注意到所有伤害或羞辱他们的事情；他的眼睛，没有布的桌子上的一圈波特酒泡沫，或者是两个立正站着的士兵的照片，或者是一张华而不实的节目单；他的耳朵里传来拖长的问候语：

—Hello, Bertie, any good in your mind?
——你好，伯蒂，你有什么好的想法吗？

—Is that you, pigeon?
——是你吗，鸽子？

—Number ten. Fresh Nelly is waiting on you.
——第十号。新鲜的耐莉正在等你。

—Good night, husband! Coming in to have a short time?
——晚安，老公！进来的时间很短吗？

The equation on the page of his scribbler began to spread out a widening tail, eyed and starred like a peacock’s; and, when the eyes and stars of its indices had been eliminated, began slowly to fold itself together again. The indices appearing and disappearing were eyes opening and closing; the eyes opening and closing were stars being born and being quenched. The vast cycle of starry life bore his weary mind outward to its verge and inward to its centre, a distant music accompanying him outward and inward. What music? The music came nearer and he recalled the words, the words of Shelley’s fragment upon the moon wandering companionless, pale for weariness. The stars began to crumble and a cloud of fine stardust fell through space.
他潦草的纸上的方程式开始展开一条越来越宽的尾巴，眼睛和星星就像孔雀的尾巴一样；当它的索引上的眼睛和星星被消除后，它又开始慢慢地折叠在一起。指标的出现和消失就是眼睛的睁开和闭上；眼睛的睁开和闭上是星星的诞生和熄灭。繁星般的生命的浩瀚循环将他疲惫的心灵向外推向边缘，向内推向中心，一种遥远的音乐伴随着他向外和向内。什么音乐？音乐越来越近，他想起了那些词，雪莱在月球上孤零零地徘徊的片段中的词，因为疲倦而苍白。星星开始崩溃，一团细小的星尘从太空中坠落。

The dull light fell more faintly upon the page whereon another equation began to unfold itself slowly and to spread abroad its widening tail. It was his own soul going forth to experience, unfolding itself sin by sin, spreading abroad the bale-fire of its burning stars and folding back upon itself, fading slowly, quenching its own lights and fires. They were quenched: and the cold darkness filled chaos.
昏暗的光线更加微弱地落在书页上，另一个方程开始慢慢地展开，并向外展开它不断扩大的尾巴。这是他自己的灵魂在前去体验，一个接一个地展现自己的罪孽，将其燃烧的星星的篝火散布开来，然后又折回到自己身上，慢慢地消逝，熄灭自己的光芒和火焰。他们被消灭了：冰冷的黑暗充满了混乱。

A cold lucid indifference reigned in his soul. At his first violent sin he had felt a wave of vitality pass out of him and had feared to find his body or his soul maimed by the excess. Instead the vital wave had carried him on its bosom out of himself and back again when it receded: and no part of body or soul had been maimed but a dark peace had been established between them. The chaos in which his ardour extinguished itself was a cold indifferent knowledge of himself. He had sinned mortally not once but many times and he knew that, while he stood in danger of eternal damnation for the first sin alone, by every succeeding sin he multiplied his guilt and his punishment. His days and works and thoughts could make no atonement for him, the fountains of sanctifying grace having ceased to refresh his soul. At most, by an alms given to a beggar whose blessing he fled from, he might hope wearily to win for himself some measure of actual grace. Devotion had gone by the board. What did it avail to pray when he knew that his soul lusted after its own destruction? A certain pride, a certain awe, withheld him from offering to God even one prayer at night, though he knew it was in God’s power to take away his life while he slept and hurl his soul hellward ere he could beg for mercy. His pride in his own sin, his loveless awe of God, told him that his offence was too grievous to be atoned for in whole or in part by a false homage to the All-seeing and All-knowing.
一种冰冷、清醒的冷漠占据了他的灵魂。当他第一次犯下严重的罪行时，他感到一股活力从他体内消失，并担心他的身体或灵魂会因过度的行为而受到伤害。相反，生命波带着他离开了自己，当它消退时又回来了：身体和灵魂的任何部分都没有受到伤害，但他们之间建立了一种黑暗的和平。他的热情在混乱中自行熄灭，这是对自己冷漠、冷漠的认识。他不止一次犯下了致命的罪，而是很多次，他知道，虽然他仅仅因为第一次犯的罪就面临着永远受到诅咒的危险，但每犯一次罪，他都会加倍地增加他的罪孽和惩罚。他的日子、工作和思想无法为他赎罪，成圣恩典的泉源已经停止刷新他的灵魂。至多，通过向一个他逃离祝福的乞丐施舍，他可能疲倦地希望为自己赢得某种程度的实际恩典。奉献精神已经消失。当他知道自己的灵魂渴望自我毁灭时，祈祷又有什么用呢？某种骄傲，某种敬畏，阻止他在晚上向上帝献上哪怕一次祈祷，尽管他知道上帝有能力在他熟睡时夺走他的生命，并在他乞求怜悯之前将他的灵魂投向地狱。他对自己的罪孽的骄傲，他对上帝无情的敬畏，告诉他，他的罪行太严重了，不能通过对全知全知的虚假敬意来全部或部分赎罪。

—Well now, Ennis, I declare you have a head and so has my stick! Do you mean to say that you are not able to tell me what a surd is?
——现在，埃尼斯，我宣布你有头，我的棍子也有头！你的意思是说你无法告诉我什么是surd？

The blundering answer stirred the embers of his contempt of his fellows. Towards others he felt neither shame nor fear. On Sunday mornings as he passed the church door he glanced coldly at the worshippers who stood bareheaded, four deep, outside the church, morally present at the mass which they could neither see nor hear. Their dull piety and the sickly smell of the cheap hair-oil with which they had anointed their heads repelled him from the altar they prayed at. He stooped to the evil of hypocrisy with others, sceptical of their innocence which he could cajole so easily.
这个错误的回答激起了他对同伴的蔑视。对于其他人，他既不感到羞耻，也不感到恐惧。周日早上，当他经过教堂门口时，他冷冷地瞥了一眼那些光着头站在教堂外的礼拜者，四层深处，道德地参加着他们既看不到也听不到的弥撒。他们迟钝的虔诚和他们涂在头上的廉价发油的恶心气味使他远离了他们祈祷的祭坛。他对别人表现出虚伪的罪恶，怀疑他们的纯真，而他可以轻易地哄骗他们。

On the wall of his bedroom hung an illuminated scroll, the certificate of his prefecture in the college of the sodality of the Blessed Virgin Mary. On Saturday mornings when the sodality met in the chapel to recite the little office his place was a cushioned kneeling-desk at the right of the altar from which he led his wing of boys through the responses. The falsehood of his position did not pain him. If at moments he felt an impulse to rise from his post of honour and, confessing before them all his unworthiness, to leave the chapel, a glance at their faces restrained him. The imagery of the psalms of prophecy soothed his barren pride. The glories of Mary held his soul captive: spikenard and myrrh and frankincense, symbolizing her royal lineage, her emblems, the late-flowering plant and late-blossoming tree, symbolizing the age-long gradual growth of her cultus among men. When it fell to him to read the lesson towards the close of the office he read it in a veiled voice, lulling his conscience to its music.
他卧室的墙上挂着一幅发光的卷轴，这是他所在的圣母玛利亚联谊会学院的县长的证书。周六早上，当联谊会在教堂里聚会朗诵小办公室时，他的位置是祭坛右侧一张铺有软垫的跪桌，他带领他的男孩们进行回答。他的立场的虚假性并没有让他感到痛苦。如果他有时感到有一种冲动，想从自己的荣誉职位上站起来，在他们面前承认自己的不配，然后离开教堂，那么只要看一眼他们的脸，他就会停下来。预言诗篇的意象抚慰了他贫瘠的骄傲。玛丽的荣耀俘虏了他的灵魂：甘松、没药和乳香，象征着她的皇室血统，她的徽章，晚花植物和晚花树，象征着她在男人中的崇拜长期逐渐增长。当他在办公室快要结束的时候朗读这堂课时，他用含蓄的声音朗读，让自己的良心随着音乐的旋律而平静下来。

QUASI CEDRUS EXALTATA SUM IN LIBANON ET QUASI CUPRESSUS IN MONTE SION. QUASI PALMA EXALTATA SUM IN GADES ET QUASI PLANTATIO ROSAE IN JERICHO. QUASI ULIVA SPECIOSA IN CAMPIS ET QUASI PLATANUS EXALTATA SUM JUXTA AQUAM IN PLATEIS. SICUT CINNAMOMUM ET BALSAMUM AROMATIZANS ODOREM DEDI ET QUASI MYRRHA ELECTA DEDI SUAVITATEM ODORIS.
黎巴嫩的准雪松和蒙蒂锡永的准柏树。杰里科的 GADES 中的准帕尔马 EXALTATA SUM 和准植物玫瑰。 CAMPIS 中的准 ULIVA SPECIOSA 和 PLATEIS 中的准 PLATANUS EXALTATA SUM JUXTA AQUAM。 SICUT 肉桂和香脂香料 ODOREM DEDI 和 QUASI MYRRHA ELECTA DEDI SUAVITATEM ODORIS。

His sin, which had covered him from the sight of God, had led him nearer to the refuge of sinners. Her eyes seemed to regard him with mild pity; her holiness, a strange light glowing faintly upon her frail flesh, did not humiliate the sinner who approached her. If ever he was impelled to cast sin from him and to repent the impulse that moved him was the wish to be her knight. If ever his soul, re-entering her dwelling shyly after the frenzy of his body’s lust had spent itself, was turned towards her whose emblem is the morning star, BRIGHT AND MUSICAL, TELLING OF HEAVEN AND INFUSING PEACE, it was when her names were murmured softly by lips whereon there still lingered foul and shameful words, the savour itself of a lewd kiss.
他的罪使他无法见上帝，这使他更接近罪人的避难所。她的目光似乎带着温和的怜悯。她的圣洁，在她脆弱的肉体上微弱地闪烁着奇异的光芒，并没有羞辱接近她的罪人。如果说他曾经被迫摆脱罪恶并悔改的话，那推动他的冲动就是成为她的骑士的愿望。如果他的灵魂在他身体的疯狂欲望消退后害羞地重新进入她的住所，转向她，她的象征是晨星，明亮而音乐，讲述天堂并注入和平，那就是当她的名字被命名时。嘴唇轻声呢喃，嘴里还残留着污秽可耻的话语，带着猥亵之吻的味道。

That was strange. He tried to think how it could be. But the dusk, deepening in the schoolroom, covered over his thoughts. The bell rang. The master marked the sums and cuts to be done for the next lesson and went out. Heron, beside Stephen, began to hum tunelessly.
这很奇怪。他试着思考怎么会这样。但教室里的暮色渐渐加深，遮住了他的思绪。铃声响了。老师记下了下一课要做的求和和删减，然后就出去了。海伦在史蒂芬身边开始不合时宜地哼唱起来。

MY EXCELLENT FRIEND BOMBADOS.
我的好朋友邦巴多斯。

Ennis, who had gone to the yard, came back, saying:
恩尼斯去了院子，回来说道：

—The boy from the house is coming up for the rector.
——家里的那个男孩要来竞选校长。

A tall boy behind Stephen rubbed his hands and said:
斯蒂芬身后的一个高个子男孩搓着手说道：

—That’s game ball. We can scut the whole hour. He won’t be in till after half two. Then you can ask him questions on the catechism, Dedalus.
——那是比赛用球。我们可以消磨整整一个小时。他要到两点半之后才会回来。然后你可以问他有关教义问答的问题，Dedalus。

Stephen, leaning back and drawing idly on his scribbler, listened to the talk about him which Heron checked from time to time by saying:
斯蒂芬靠在椅背上，懒洋洋地在笔记本上画画，听着关于他的谈话，赫伦时不时地检查一下，说：

—Shut up, will you. Don’t make such a bally racket!
——闭嘴，好吗？别搞出这么大的球拍！

It was strange too that he found an arid pleasure in following up to the end the rigid lines of the doctrines of the church and penetrating into obscure silences only to hear and feel the more deeply his own condemnation. The sentence of saint James which says that he who offends against one commandment becomes guilty of all, had seemed to him first a swollen phrase until he had begun to grope in the darkness of his own state. From the evil seed of lust all other deadly sins had sprung forth: pride in himself and contempt of others, covetousness in using money for the purchase of unlawful pleasures, envy of those whose vices he could not reach to and calumnious murmuring against the pious, gluttonous enjoyment of food, the dull glowering anger amid which he brooded upon his longing, the swamp of spiritual and bodily sloth in which his whole being had sunk.
同样奇怪的是，他在遵循教会教义的严格路线到最后并进入晦涩的沉默中找到了一种枯燥的乐趣，结果却听到并更加深刻地感受到了他自己的谴责。圣雅各的这句话说，凡违反一条诫命的人，就犯了所有的诫命，这句话起初对他来说似乎是一句夸大的话，直到他开始在自己处境的黑暗中摸索。所有其他致命的罪恶都从欲望的邪恶种子中萌芽：对自己的骄傲和对他人的蔑视，用金钱购买非法快乐的贪婪，对那些他无法触及的恶习的人的嫉妒以及对虔诚者的诽谤性抱怨，对食物的贪婪享受，沉闷的怒火，他沉思于自己的渴望，精神和身体的懒惰沼泽，他的整个人都陷入了其中。

As he sat in his bench gazing calmly at the rector’s shrewd harsh face, his mind wound itself in and out of the curious questions proposed to it. If a man had stolen a pound in his youth and had used that pound to amass a huge fortune how much was he obliged to give back, the pound he had stolen only or the pound together with the compound interest accruing upon it or all his huge fortune? If a layman in giving baptism pour the water before saying the words is the child baptized? Is baptism with a mineral water valid? How comes it that while the first beatitude promises the kingdom of heaven to the poor of heart the second beatitude promises also to the meek that they shall possess the land? Why was the sacrament of the eucharist instituted under the two species of bread and wine if Jesus Christ be present body and blood, soul and divinity, in the bread alone and in the wine alone? Does a tiny particle of the consecrated bread contain all the body and blood of Jesus Christ or a part only of the body and blood? If the wine change into vinegar and the host crumble into corruption after they have been consecrated, is Jesus Christ still present under their species as God and as man?
当他坐在长凳上，平静地注视着校长那张精明而严厉的脸时，他的思绪在向他提出的奇怪问题中不断地徘徊。如果一个人在年轻时偷了一英镑，并用这英镑积累了巨额财富，他有义务归还多少，是他偷的英镑，还是加上复利的英镑，或者是他所有的巨额财产财富？如果外行在施洗时先倒水再说的话，孩子就受洗了吗？用矿泉水洗礼有效吗？为什么第一福应许穷人有天国，而第二福也应许谦卑的人拥有土地呢？如果耶稣基督的身体和血、灵魂和神性都存在于面包和酒中，为什么圣体圣事要在面包和酒这两种形式下制定呢？祝圣后的面包中的一小部分是否含有耶稣基督的全部身体和血，还是只含有一部分身体和血？如果酒在祝圣后变成了醋，而宿主则腐烂了，那么耶稣基督是否仍然以神和人的身份存在于他们的物种之下呢？

—Here he is! Here he is!
-他在这里！他在这里！

A boy from his post at the window had seen the rector come from the house. All the catechisms were opened and all heads bent upon them silently. The rector entered and took his seat on the dais. A gentle kick from the tall boy in the bench behind urged Stephen to ask a difficult question.
一个站在窗口的男孩看到校长从房子里出来。所有的教义问答都被打开了，所有人都默默地低头看着它们。校长进来并在讲台上就座。后面板凳上的高个子男孩轻轻一踢，促使斯蒂芬提出一个棘手的问题。

The rector did not ask for a catechism to hear the lesson from. He clasped his hands on the desk and said:
校长没有要求教义问答来听取教训。他双手放在桌子上，说道：

—The retreat will begin on Wednesday afternoon in honour of saint Francis Xavier whose feast day is Saturday. The retreat will go on from Wednesday to Friday. On Friday confession will be heard all the afternoon after beads. If any boys have special confessors perhaps it will be better for them not to change. Mass will be on Saturday morning at nine o’clock and general communion for the whole college. Saturday will be a free day. But Saturday and Sunday being free days some boys might be inclined to think that Monday is a free day also. Beware of making that mistake. I think you, Lawless, are likely to make that mistake.
——静修活动将于周三下午开始，以纪念圣弗朗西斯·泽维尔（Saint Francis Xavier），他的节日是周六。静修活动将于周三至周五进行。周五念珠后整个下午都会听到忏悔声。如果任何男孩有专门的忏悔神父，也许他们最好不要改变。周六早上九点将举行弥撒，并为整个学院举行圣餐。星期六将是自由活动日。但周六和周日是免费日，一些男孩可能会倾向于认为周一也是免费日。小心不要犯这样的错误。我认为你，无法无天，很可能会犯这个错误。

—I sir? Why, sir?
——我先生？为什么，先生？

A little wave of quiet mirth broke forth over the class of boys from the rector’s grim smile. Stephen’s heart began slowly to fold and fade with fear like a withering flower.
校长冷酷的微笑让全班男生爆发出一阵平静的笑声。斯蒂芬的心开始慢慢地因恐惧而折叠和褪色，就像一朵枯萎的花一样。

The rector went on gravely:
校长严肃地继续说道：

—You are all familiar with the story of the life of saint Francis Xavier, I suppose, the patron of your college. He came of an old and illustrious Spanish family and you remember that he was one of the first followers of saint Ignatius. They met in Paris where Francis Xavier was professor of philosophy at the university. This young and brilliant nobleman and man of letters entered heart and soul into the ideas of our glorious founder and you know that he, at his own desire, was sent by saint Ignatius to preach to the Indians. He is called, as you know, the apostle of the Indies. He went from country to country in the east, from Africa to India, from India to Japan, baptizing the people. He is said to have baptized as many as ten thousand idolaters in one month. It is said that his right arm had grown powerless from having been raised so often over the heads of those whom he baptized. He wished then to go to China to win still more souls for God but he died of fever on the island of Sancian. A great saint, saint Francis Xavier! A great soldier of God!
——我想你们都熟悉圣弗朗西斯泽维尔的生平故事，他是你们大学的赞助人。他出身于一个古老而显赫的西班牙家庭，你还记得他是圣伊格内修斯的第一批追随者之一。他们在巴黎相识，弗朗西斯·泽维尔是巴黎大学的哲学教授。这位年轻而才华横溢的贵族和学者全心全意地融入了我们光荣的创始人的思想中，你知道，他是按照自己的意愿，被圣伊格内修斯派去向印第安人传教的。如您所知，他被称为印度群岛的使徒。他从东方到另一个国家，从非洲到印度，从印度到日本，为人民施洗。据说他在一个月内为一万名偶像崇拜者施洗。据说，他的右臂由于经常举过受洗者的头顶而变得无力。他当时希望去中国为上帝赢得更多的灵魂，但他在桑西安岛因发烧去世。一位伟大的圣人，圣方济各泽维尔！伟大的神的战士！

The rector paused and then, shaking his clasped hands before him, went on:
校长停顿了一下，然后在他面前晃动着紧握的双手，继续说道：

—He had the faith in him that moves mountains. Ten thousand souls won for God in a single month! That is a true conqueror, true to the motto of our order: AD MAJOREM DEI GLORIAM! A saint who has great power in heaven, remember: power to intercede for us in our grief; power to obtain whatever we pray for if it be for the good of our souls; power above all to obtain for us the grace to repent if we be in sin. A great saint, saint Francis Xavier! A great fisher of souls!
——他对能移山的人有信心。一个月内就有一万个灵魂为上帝赢得了胜利！这是真正的征服者，忠于我们骑士团的座右铭：AD MAJOREM DEI GLORIAM！一位在天上拥有巨大能力的圣人，请记住：有能力在我们的悲伤中为我们代求；有能力获得我们所祈求的一切，只要这对我们的灵魂有益；最重要的是，如果我们犯罪的话，它能为我们获得悔改的恩典。一位伟大的圣人，圣方济各泽维尔！一位伟大的灵魂渔夫！

He ceased to shake his clasped hands and, resting them against his forehead, looked right and left of them keenly at his listeners out of his dark stern eyes.
他不再晃动紧握的双手，将双手抵在额头上，用严厉的黑色眼睛敏锐地左右扫视着听众。

In the silence their dark fire kindled the dusk into a tawny glow. Stephen’s heart had withered up like a flower of the desert that feels the simoom coming from afar.
在寂静中，他们的黑火将黄昏点燃成黄褐色的光芒。史蒂芬的心已经枯萎了，就像沙漠里的一朵花感受到了远方传来的西木姆一样。

*****

—REMEMBER ONLY THY LAST THINGS AND THOU SHALT NOT SIN FOR EVER— words taken, my dear little brothers in Christ, from the book of Ecclesiastes, seventh chapter, fortieth verse. In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen.
——只要记住你最后的事情，你就不会永远犯罪——我亲爱的基督里的小兄弟们，摘自《传道书》第七章第四十节的话。以父、子、圣灵的名义。阿门。

Stephen sat in the front bench of the chapel. Father Arnall sat at a table to the left of the altar. He wore about his shoulders a heavy cloak; his pale face was drawn and his voice broken with rheum. The figure of his old master, so strangely re-arisen, brought back to Stephen’s mind his life at Clongowes: the wide playgrounds, swarming with boys; the square ditch; the little cemetery off the main avenue of limes where he had dreamed of being buried; the firelight on the wall of the infirmary where he lay sick; the sorrowful face of Brother Michael. His soul, as these memories came back to him, became again a child’s soul.
斯蒂芬坐在教堂的前排长凳上。阿纳尔神父坐在祭坛左边的一张桌子旁。他肩上披着一件厚重的斗篷。他苍白的脸色憔悴，声音因酸味而沙哑。他的老主人的身影，如此奇怪地重新出现，让史蒂芬想起了他在克朗戈斯的生活：宽阔的操场，挤满了男孩；方沟；石灰主干道旁的小墓地，他曾梦想被埋葬在那里；他生病的医务室墙上的火光；迈克尔弟兄悲伤的脸。当这些记忆再次出现时，他的灵魂又变成了孩子的灵魂。

—We are assembled here today, my dear little brothers in Christ, for one brief moment far away from the busy bustle of the outer world to celebrate and to honour one of the greatest of saints, the apostle of the Indies, the patron saint also of your college, saint Francis Xavier. Year after year, for much longer than any of you, my dear little boys, can remember or than I can remember, the boys of this college have met in this very chapel to make their annual retreat before the feast day of their patron saint. Time has gone on and brought with it its changes. Even in the last few years what changes can most of you not remember? Many of the boys who sat in those front benches a few years ago are perhaps now in distant lands, in the burning tropics, or immersed in professional duties or in seminaries, or voyaging over the vast expanse of the deep or, it may be, already called by the great God to another life and to the rendering up of their stewardship. And still as the years roll by, bringing with them changes for good and bad, the memory of the great saint is honoured by the boys of this college who make every year their annual retreat on the days preceding the feast day set apart by our Holy Mother the Church to transmit to all the ages the name and fame of one of the greatest sons of catholic Spain.
——我亲爱的基督里的小兄弟们，今天我们聚集在这里，远离外部世界的喧嚣，庆祝和纪念最伟大的圣人之一、印度的使徒、守护神之一。你们学院的圣弗朗西斯·泽维尔。年复一年，这所学院的男孩们在这个小教堂里相聚，在他们的守护神节日之前进行一年一度的静修，这比你们我亲爱的小男孩们能记得或我能记得的时间要长得多。时间在流逝，也带来了变化。即使在过去的几年里，你们大多数人都不记得有哪些变化？几年前坐在前排的许多男孩现在可能身处遥远的土地，在燃烧的热带地区，或沉浸在专业职责中或在神学院，或航行在广阔的深海中，或者可能是，伟大的上帝已经召唤他们进入另一种生活并履行他们的管理职责。然而，随着岁月的流逝，带来好与坏的变化，这位伟大的圣人的记忆仍然受到这所学院的男孩们的尊敬，他们每年都会在我们神圣的节日之前的日子里进行年度静修。教会母亲，将天主教西班牙最伟大的儿子之一的名字和声誉传播给各个年龄段。

—Now what is the meaning of this word RETREAT and why is it allowed on all hands to be a most salutary practice for all who desire to lead before God and in the eyes of men a truly christian life? A retreat, my dear boys, signifies a withdrawal for awhile from the cares of our life, the cares of this workaday world, in order to examine the state of our conscience, to reflect on the mysteries of holy religion and to understand better why we are here in this world. During these few days I intend to put before you some thoughts concerning the four last things. They are, as you know from your catechism, death, judgement, hell, and heaven. We shall try to understand them fully during these few days so that we may derive from the understanding of them a lasting benefit to our souls. And remember, my dear boys, that we have been sent into this world for one thing and for one thing alone: to do God’s holy will and to save our immortal souls. All else is worthless. One thing alone is needful, the salvation of one’s soul. What doth it profit a man to gain the whole world if he suffer the loss of his immortal soul? Ah, my dear boys, believe me there is nothing in this wretched world that can make up for such a loss.
——现在，“撤退”这个词的含义是什么？为什么对于所有渴望在上帝面前并在人们眼中过真正基督徒生活的人来说，它被允许成为最有益的做法？亲爱的孩子们，静修意味着暂时从我们生活的忧虑、这个平凡世界的忧虑中抽离出来，以便审视我们的良心状态，反思神圣宗教的奥秘，并更好地理解我们为什么要这样做。在这个世界上。在这几天里，我打算向你们提出一些关于最后四件事的想法。正如你从教理问答中知道的那样，它们是死亡、审判、地狱和天堂。在这几天里，我们将尽力充分理解它们，以便我们可以从对它们的理解中对我们的灵魂产生持久的益处。请记住，我亲爱的孩子们，我们被派到这个世界上只有一件事，而且只有一件事：遵行上帝的神圣旨意并拯救我们不朽的灵魂。其他一切都是毫无价值的。只有一件事是必要的，那就是灵魂的救赎。一个人如果失去了不朽的灵魂，即使得到全世界又有什么好处呢？啊，我亲爱的孩子们，相信我，在这个悲惨的世界上没有任何东西可以弥补这样的损失。

—I will ask you, therefore, my dear boys, to put away from your minds during these few days all worldly thoughts, whether of study or pleasure or ambition, and to give all your attention to the state of your souls. I need hardly remind you that during the days of the retreat all boys are expected to preserve a quiet and pious demeanour and to shun all loud unseemly pleasure. The elder boys, of course, will see that this custom is not infringed and I look especially to the prefects and officers of the sodality of Our Blessed Lady and of the sodality of the holy angels to set a good example to their fellow-students.
——因此，我亲爱的孩子们，我请求你们在这几天里抛开一切世俗的想法，无论是学习、享乐还是野心，全神贯注于你们的灵魂状态。我几乎不需要提醒你，在静修的日子里，所有男孩都应该保持安静和虔诚的举止，避免一切喧闹、不合时宜的娱乐。当然，高年级的男孩们会确保这一习俗不受侵犯，我特别希望圣母联谊会和圣天使联谊会的级长和官员为他们的同学树立一个好榜样。

—Let us try, therefore, to make this retreat in honour of saint Francis with our whole heart and our whole mind. God’s blessing will then be upon all your year’s studies. But, above and beyond all, let this retreat be one to which you can look back in after years when maybe you are far from this college and among very different surroundings, to which you can look back with joy and thankfulness and give thanks to God for having granted you this occasion of laying the first foundation of a pious honourable zealous christian life. And if, as may so happen, there be at this moment in these benches any poor soul who has had the unutterable misfortune to lose God’s holy grace and to fall into grievous sin, I fervently trust and pray that this retreat may be the turning point in the life of that soul. I pray to God through the merits of His zealous servant Francis Xavier, that such a soul may be led to sincere repentance and that the holy communion on saint Francis’s day of this year may be a lasting covenant between God and that soul. For just and unjust, for saint and sinner alike, may this retreat be a memorable one.
——因此，让我们全心全意地为圣弗朗西斯举行这次静修会。上帝的祝福将临到你全年的学习。但是，最重要的是，让这次静修成为你可以在多年后回顾的一次静修，当你远离这所大学，处于截然不同的环境中时，你可以带着喜悦和感恩的心情回首，并感谢上帝感谢您给了您这个机会，为您虔诚、光荣、热心的基督徒生活奠定了第一个基础。如果，正如可能发生的那样，此刻在这些长凳上有任何可怜的灵魂，遭受了无法形容的不幸，失去了上帝的神圣恩典并陷入了严重的罪恶，我热切地相信并祈祷这次撤退可能成为转折点在那个灵魂的生命中。我通过他热心的仆人弗朗西斯·泽维尔的功劳向上帝祈祷，愿这样的灵魂能够被引导到真诚的悔改，并且今年圣弗朗西斯节的圣餐可能成为上帝与那个灵魂之间的永久盟约。无论是正义的还是不正义的，无论是圣人还是罪人，愿这次静修成为一次难忘的经历。

—Help me, my dear little brothers in Christ. Help me by your pious attention, by your own devotion, by your outward demeanour. Banish from your minds all worldly thoughts and think only of the last things, death, judgement, hell, and heaven. He who remembers these things, says Ecclesiastes, shall not sin for ever. He who remembers the last things will act and think with them always before his eyes. He will live a good life and die a good death, believing and knowing that, if he has sacrificed much in this earthly life, it will be given to him a hundredfold and a thousandfold more in the life to come, in the kingdom without end—a blessing, my dear boys, which I wish you from my heart, one and all, in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen!
——帮助我，我亲爱的基督里的小兄弟们。用你虔诚的关注、你自己的奉献、你的外在举止来帮助我。从你的头脑中驱逐所有世俗的想法，只考虑最后的事情：死亡、审判、地狱和天堂。传道书说，凡记住这些事的人，就不会永远犯罪。凡是记得最后事情的人，他的行动和思考总是在他的眼前。他会过上美好的生活，死去一个美好的死亡，相信并知道，如果他在今生做出了很多牺牲，那么在来世，在无尽的国度里，他会得到百倍和千倍的牺牲。 ——亲爱的孩子们，我以圣父、圣子和圣灵的名义，衷心祝愿你们一切顺利。阿门！

As he walked home with silent companions, a thick fog seemed to compass his mind. He waited in stupor of mind till it should lift and reveal what it had hidden. He ate his dinner with surly appetite and when the meal was over and the grease-strewn plates lay abandoned on the table, he rose and went to the window, clearing the thick scum from his mouth with his tongue and licking it from his lips. So he had sunk to the state of a beast that licks his chaps after meat. This was the end; and a faint glimmer of fear began to pierce the fog of his mind. He pressed his face against the pane of the window and gazed out into the darkening street. Forms passed this way and that through the dull light. And that was life. The letters of the name of Dublin lay heavily upon his mind, pushing one another surlily hither and thither with slow boorish insistence. His soul was fattening and congealing into a gross grease, plunging ever deeper in its dull fear into a sombre threatening dusk while the body that was his stood, listless and dishonoured, gazing out of darkened eyes, helpless, perturbed, and human for a bovine god to stare upon.
当他和沉默的同伴一起走回家时，他的脑海里似乎笼罩着一层浓雾。他在精神恍惚中等待着，直到它升起并显露出它所隐藏的东西。他狼吞虎咽地吃着晚饭，吃完饭，桌上沾满油污的盘子被扔在一边，他起身走到窗前，用舌头清理掉嘴里的厚厚的浮渣，舔掉嘴唇上的浮渣。所以他已经沦落为一头吃完肉就舔自己小伙子的野兽。这就是结局；一丝微弱的恐惧开始刺破他心中的迷雾。他把脸贴在窗玻璃上，凝视着窗外昏暗的街道。昏暗的光线中，形形色色的人影来来往往。这就是生活。都柏林这个名字的字母重重地压在他的脑海里，带着缓慢的粗鲁坚持，阴沉地推来推去。他的灵魂正在变胖，凝结成一团粗俗的油脂，在沉闷的恐惧中越陷越深，陷入阴沉、威胁的黄昏，而他的身体却无精打采、羞辱地站着，用漆黑的眼睛凝视着，无助、不安，就像一头牛一样。神来凝视。

The next day brought death and judgement, stirring his soul slowly from its listless despair. The faint glimmer of fear became a terror of spirit as the hoarse voice of the preacher blew death into his soul. He suffered its agony. He felt the death chill touch the extremities and creep onward towards the heart, the film of death veiling the eyes, the bright centres of the brain extinguished one by one like lamps, the last sweat oozing upon the skin, the powerlessness of the dying limbs, the speech thickening and wandering and failing, the heart throbbing faintly and more faintly, all but vanquished, the breath, the poor breath, the poor helpless human spirit, sobbing and sighing, gurgling and rattling in the throat. No help! No help! He—he himself—his body to which he had yielded was dying. Into the grave with it. Nail it down into a wooden box, the corpse. Carry it out of the house on the shoulders of hirelings. Thrust it out of men’s sight into a long hole in the ground, into the grave, to rot, to feed the mass of its creeping worms and to be devoured by scuttling plump-bellied rats.
第二天带来了死亡和审判，慢慢地将他的灵魂从无精打采的绝望中唤醒。当传教士沙哑的声音将死亡吹进他的灵魂时，微弱的恐惧变成了精神上的恐惧。他遭受了这种痛苦。他感觉到死亡的寒意触及四肢，向心脏蔓延，死亡的薄膜遮住了眼睛，大脑明亮的中枢如灯一样一一熄灭，皮肤上渗出最后的汗水，垂死的四肢无力。 ，言语变得粗重、徘徊和失败，心脏微弱地跳动，越来越微弱，几乎被征服了，呼吸，可怜的呼吸，可怜无助的人类精神，抽泣着，叹着气，喉咙里咕咕作响。没有帮助！没有帮助！他——他自己——他所屈服的身体正在死去。与它一起进入坟墓。把它钉在一个木盒子里，那就是尸体。雇工用肩扛着它走出家门。把它从人们的视线中推到地上的一个长洞里，扔进坟墓里，让它腐烂，喂它那一大群爬行的蠕虫，然后被快跑的肥肚老鼠吃掉。

And while the friends were still standing in tears by the bedside the soul of the sinner was judged. At the last moment of consciousness the whole earthly life passed before the vision of the soul and, ere it had time to reflect, the body had died and the soul stood terrified before the judgement seat. God, who had long been merciful, would then be just. He had long been patient, pleading with the sinful soul, giving it time to repent, sparing it yet awhile. But that time had gone. Time was to sin and to enjoy, time was to scoff at God and at the warnings of His holy church, time was to defy His majesty, to disobey His commands, to hoodwink one’s fellow men, to commit sin after sin and to hide one’s corruption from the sight of men. But that time was over. Now it was God’s turn: and He was not to be hoodwinked or deceived. Every sin would then come forth from its lurking place, the most rebellious against the divine will and the most degrading to our poor corrupt nature, the tiniest imperfection and the most heinous atrocity. What did it avail then to have been a great emperor, a great general, a marvellous inventor, the most learned of the learned? All were as one before the judgement seat of God. He would reward the good and punish the wicked. One single instant was enough for the trial of a man’s soul. One single instant after the body’s death, the soul had been weighed in the balance. The particular judgement was over and the soul had passed to the abode of bliss or to the prison of purgatory or had been hurled howling into hell.
当朋友们仍然站在床边流泪时，罪人的灵魂就受到了审判。在意识的最后一刻，整个尘世的生活都在灵魂的视野中过去了，还没来得及反思，身体就已经死了，灵魂惊恐地站在审判台前。长久以来仁慈的上帝届时将是公正的。他长期以来一直耐心地恳求这个有罪的灵魂，给它时间悔改，暂时饶恕它。但那个时代已经过去了。时间是犯罪和享受的时间，时间是嘲笑上帝和他神圣教会的警告的时间，时间是蔑视他的威严，违背他的命令，欺骗自己的同胞，犯下一个又一个罪行并隐藏自己的罪的时间。人们眼中的腐败。但那个时代已经结束了。现在轮到上帝了：他不应该被蒙蔽或欺骗。然后，每一种罪恶都会从其潜伏的地方显现出来，最违背神的意志，最有辱我们可怜腐败的本性，最微小的缺陷和最令人发指的暴行。那么，成为一位伟大的皇帝、一位伟大的将军、一位了不起的发明家、一位博学之士，又有什么用呢？在神的审判台前，所有人都同为一。他会奖赏好人，惩罚恶人。对于一个人的灵魂来说，一瞬间的考验就足够了。肉体死亡后的一瞬间，灵魂就已经得到了天平的称量。特定的审判结束了，灵魂要么进入极乐之地，要么进入炼狱，要么嚎叫着被扔进地狱。

Nor was that all. God’s justice had still to be vindicated before men: after the particular there still remained the general judgement. The last day had come. The doomsday was at hand. The stars of heaven were falling upon the earth like the figs cast by the fig-tree which the wind has shaken. The sun, the great luminary of the universe, had become as sackcloth of hair. The moon was blood-red. The firmament was as a scroll rolled away. The archangel Michael, the prince of the heavenly host, appeared glorious and terrible against the sky. With one foot on the sea and one foot on the land he blew from the archangelical trumpet the brazen death of time. The three blasts of the angel filled all the universe. Time is, time was, but time shall be no more. At the last blast the souls of universal humanity throng towards the valley of Jehoshaphat, rich and poor, gentle and simple, wise and foolish, good and wicked. The soul of every human being that has ever existed, the souls of all those who shall yet be born, all the sons and daughters of Adam, all are assembled on that supreme day. And lo, the supreme judge is coming! No longer the lowly Lamb of God, no longer the meek Jesus of Nazareth, no longer the Man of Sorrows, no longer the Good Shepherd, He is seen now coming upon the clouds, in great power and majesty, attended by nine choirs of angels, angels and archangels, principalities, powers and virtues, thrones and dominations, cherubim and seraphim, God Omnipotent, God Everlasting. He speaks: and His voice is heard even at the farthest limits of space, even In the bottomless abyss. Supreme Judge, from His sentence there will be and can be no appeal. He calls the just to His side, bidding them enter into the kingdom, the eternity of bliss prepared for them. The unjust He casts from Him, crying in His offended majesty: DEPART FROM ME, YE CURSED, INTO EVERLASTING FIRE WHICH WAS PREPARED FOR THE DEVIL AND HIS ANGELS. O, what agony then for the miserable sinners! Friend is torn apart from friend, children are torn from their parents, husbands from their wives. The poor sinner holds out his arms to those who were dear to him in this earthly world, to those whose simple piety perhaps he made a mock of, to those who counselled him and tried to lead him on the right path, to a kind brother, to a loving sister, to the mother and father who loved him so dearly. But it is too late: the just turn away from the wretched damned souls which now appear before the eyes of all in their hideous and evil character. O you hypocrites, O, you whited sepulchres, O you who present a smooth smiling face to the world while your soul within is a foul swamp of sin, how will it fare with you in that terrible day?
这还不是全部。上帝的正义仍然需要在人面前得到证实：在特殊的审判之后，仍然存在着普遍的审判。最后一天到了。世界末日即将来临。天上的星星落在地上，就像风吹动的无花果树上落下的无花果一样。太阳，宇宙中最伟大的光体，已经变得像麻布一样。月亮是血红色的。苍穹如卷轴般滚滚而去。天军王子大天使米迦勒在天空的衬托下显得光荣又可怕。他一只脚踩在海上，一只脚踩在陆地上，他用大天使的号角吹响了时间的无耻死亡。天使的三道爆炸充满了整个宇宙。时间过去了，时间过去了，但时间将不复存在。在最后一声巨响中，全人类的灵魂涌向约沙法谷，无论贫富、温柔还是单纯、聪明还是愚蠢、善良还是邪恶。曾经存在过的每个人的灵魂，所有即将出生的人的灵魂，亚当的所有儿女，都在那个至高无上的日子聚集在一起。看哪，最高法官来了！不再是卑微的上帝羔羊，不再是温顺的拿撒勒人耶稣，不再是多受悲伤的人，不再是好牧人，现在人们看到他驾着云降临，带着巨大的能力和威严，有九个天使合唱团伴随着，天使和大天使，公国，权力和美德，宝座和统治，基路伯和六翼天使，全能的上帝，永恒的上帝。他说话：即使在最遥远的空间，甚至在无底的深渊，也能听到他的声音。最高法官，对他的判决，不得上诉，也不可能上诉。他召唤义人到他身边，命令他们进入天国，享受为他们准备的永恒幸福。 他将那些不义的人从他身边驱逐出去，在他被冒犯的威严中呼喊：离开我，你们这些被诅咒的人，进入为魔鬼和他的天使所准备的永恒之火中。噢，对于那些可悲的罪人来说，这是何等的痛苦啊！朋友与朋友分离，孩子与父母分离，丈夫与妻子分离。可怜的罪人向他在尘世所爱的人伸出双臂，向那些可能被他嘲笑的单纯虔诚的人伸出双臂，向那些为他提供建议并试图引导他走上正路的人，向一位仁慈的兄弟伸出双臂。献给一位慈爱的妹妹，献给深爱他的父母。但为时已晚：对现在以其丑陋和邪恶的性格出现在所有人眼前的可怜的该死的灵魂进行正义的转身。噢，你们这些伪君子，噢，你们这些粉饰的坟墓，噢，你们向世界展示着一张光滑的笑脸，而你们的灵魂内心却是一片罪恶的沼泽，在那可怕的日子里，你们会怎样？

And this day will come, shall come, must come: the day of death and the day of judgement. It is appointed unto man to die and after death the judgement. Death is certain. The time and manner are uncertain, whether from long disease or from some unexpected accident: the Son of God cometh at an hour when you little expect Him. Be therefore ready every moment, seeing that you may die at any moment. Death is the end of us all. Death and judgement, brought into the world by the sin of our first parents, are the dark portals that close our earthly existence, the portals that open into the unknown and the unseen, portals through which every soul must pass, alone, unaided save by its good works, without friend or brother or parent or master to help it, alone and trembling. Let that thought be ever before our minds and then we cannot sin. Death, a cause of terror to the sinner, is a blessed moment for him who has walked in the right path, fulfilling the duties of his station in life, attending to his morning and evening prayers, approaching the holy sacrament frequently and performing good and merciful works. For the pious and believing catholic, for the just man, death is no cause of terror. Was it not Addison, the great English writer, who, when on his deathbed, sent for the wicked young earl of Warwick to let him see how a christian can meet his end? He it is and he alone, the pious and believing christian, who can say in his heart:
这一天将会到来，将会到来，一定会到来：死亡的日子和审判的日子。人注定要死，死后受审判。死亡是确定的。时间和方式是不确定的，无论是由于长期的疾病还是由于一些意外的事故：神的儿子在你几乎不期待的时刻来临。因此，时刻做好准备，因为你随时都可能死去。死亡是我们所有人的终结。死亡和审判，由于我们始祖的罪孽而被带到这个世界上，是关闭我们尘世存在的黑暗之门，是通向未知和不可见之物的门户，是每个灵魂都必须独自通过的门户，无助地通过。它的善行，没有朋友、兄弟、父母或主人的帮助，孤独而颤抖。让这种想法永远存在于我们的脑海中，这样我们就不会犯罪。死亡是罪人恐惧的原因，但对于那些走在正确道路上、履行了他生前的职责、参加早晚祈祷、经常领受圣礼、行善和行善的人来说，却是一个有福的时刻。仁慈的工作。对于虔诚而有信仰的天主教徒，对于正义的人来说，死亡并不是恐怖的原因。英国伟大作家艾迪生在弥留之际，派人去请邪恶的年轻沃里克伯爵，让他看看一个基督徒如何才能结束自己的生命，这难道不是吗？只有他，虔诚而有信仰的基督徒，才能在心里说：

O grave, where is thy victory?
坟墓啊，你的胜利在哪里？

O death, where is thy sting?
死亡啊，你的毒刺在哪里？

Every word of it was for him. Against his sin, foul and secret, the whole wrath of God was aimed. The preacher’s knife had probed deeply into his disclosed conscience and he felt now that his soul was festering in sin. Yes, the preacher was right. God’s turn had come. Like a beast in its lair his soul had lain down in its own filth but the blasts of the angel’s trumpet had driven him forth from the darkness of sin into the light. The words of doom cried by the angel shattered in an instant his presumptuous peace. The wind of the last day blew through his mind, his sins, the jewel-eyed harlots of his imagination, fled before the hurricane, squeaking like mice in their terror and huddled under a mane of hair.
每一个字都是说给他听的。上帝的全部愤怒都针对他那肮脏而隐秘的罪恶。传教士的刀深深地刺入了他公开的良心，他现在感到自己的灵魂正在罪恶中溃烂。是的，传教士是对的。轮到上帝了。就像一头困在巢穴中的野兽一样，他的灵魂已经躺在自己的污秽之中，但天使号角的吹响却把他从罪恶的黑暗中驱赶到了光明中。天使喊出的末日话语，瞬间打破了他自以为是的平静。末日的风吹过他的心灵，他的罪孽，他想象中的宝石眼妓女，在飓风面前逃跑，像老鼠一样在恐惧中吱吱作响，蜷缩在鬃毛下。

As he crossed the square, walking homeward, the light laughter of a girl reached his burning ear. The frail gay sound smote his heart more strongly than a trumpet blast, and, not daring to lift his eyes, he turned aside and gazed, as he walked, into the shadow of the tangled shrubs. Shame rose from his smitten heart and flooded his whole being. The image of Emma appeared before him, and under her eyes the flood of shame rushed forth anew from his heart. If she knew to what his mind had subjected her or how his brute-like lust had torn and trampled upon her innocence! Was that boyish love? Was that chivalry? Was that poetry? The sordid details of his orgies stank under his very nostrils. The soot-coated packet of pictures which he had hidden in the flue of the fireplace and in the presence of whose shameless or bashful wantonness he lay for hours sinning in thought and deed; his monstrous dreams, peopled by ape-like creatures and by harlots with gleaming jewel eyes; the foul long letters he had written in the joy of guilty confession and carried secretly for days and days only to throw them under cover of night among the grass in the corner of a field or beneath some hingeless door in some niche in the hedges where a girl might come upon them as she walked by and read them secretly. Mad! Mad! Was it possible he had done these things? A cold sweat broke out upon his forehead as the foul memories condensed within his brain.
当他穿过广场，走回家的时候，一个女孩的轻笑声传入了他灼热的耳中。那微弱的欢快的声音比喇叭声更强烈地击打着他的心，他不敢抬起眼睛，转过身去，一边走，一边凝视着纠结的灌木丛的阴影。羞耻从他受打击的心里升起，淹没了他的整个存在。艾玛的身影出现在他面前，在她的眼底下，耻辱的洪流再次从他的心中涌出。如果她知道他的思想使她遭受了什么，或者他野蛮的欲望如何撕裂和践踏了她的纯真！那是孩子气的爱情吗？这就是骑士精神吗？那是诗吗？他的纵欲的肮脏细节在他的鼻孔下散发着恶臭。他把那包沾满煤灰的画藏在壁炉的烟道里，在其无耻或害羞的放荡面前，他躺了好几个小时，在思想和行为上都犯了罪。他那可怕的梦境，里面住满了类人猿的生物和有着闪闪发光的宝石眼睛的妓女；他在承认有罪的喜悦中写下了那些肮脏的长信，并秘密地携带了几天又几天，只是为了在夜色的掩护下将它们扔到田野角落的草丛中，或者扔到树篱中某个壁龛中的无铰链门下，女孩可能会在路过时看到它们并偷偷地阅读它们。疯狂的！疯狂的！这些事情有可能是他做的吗？他的额头冒出了冷汗，那些肮脏的记忆在他的大脑中凝聚。

When the agony of shame had passed from him he tried to raise his soul from its abject powerlessness. God and the Blessed Virgin were too far from him: God was too great and stern and the Blessed Virgin too pure and holy. But he imagined that he stood near Emma in a wide land and, humbly and in tears, bent and kissed the elbow of her sleeve.
当羞耻的痛苦从他身上消失后，他试图让自己的灵魂从卑微的无力中恢复过来。上帝和圣母离他太远了：上帝太伟大、太严厉，而圣母太纯洁、圣洁。但他想象自己站在艾玛身边，在一片广阔的土地上，谦卑地流着泪，弯下腰亲吻了她的袖子。

In the wide land under a tender lucid evening sky, a cloud drifting westward amid a pale green sea of heaven, they stood together, children that had erred. Their error had offended deeply God’s majesty though it was the error of two children; but it had not offended her whose beauty IS NOT LIKE EARTHLY BEAUTY, DANGEROUS TO LOOK UPON, BUT LIKE THE MORNING STAR WHICH IS ITS EMBLEM, BRIGHT AND MUSICAL. The eyes were not offended which she turned upon him nor reproachful. She placed their hands together, hand in hand, and said, speaking to their hearts:
辽阔的大地上，温柔明朗的夜空下，淡绿色的天海中，一朵云向西飘去，他们站在一起，都是犯过错的孩子。尽管这是两个孩子的错误，但他们的错误却深深地冒犯了上帝的威严。但这并没有冒犯她，她的美丽不像尘世之美，看起来很危险，而是像晨星一样，明亮而富有音乐性，这是它的象征。她看向他的眼神既没有生气，也没有责备。她将他们的手放在一起，手牵着手，对着他们的心说：

—Take hands, Stephen and Emma. It is a beautiful evening now in heaven. You have erred but you are always my children. It is one heart that loves another heart. Take hands together, my dear children, and you will be happy together and your hearts will love each other.
——牵起手来，史蒂芬和艾玛。现在在天堂是一个美丽的夜晚。你有错，但你永远是我的孩子。一颗心爱着另一颗心。亲爱的孩子们，手牵着手，你们会在一起幸福，你们的心会彼此相爱。

The chapel was flooded by the dull scarlet light that filtered through the lowered blinds; and through the fissure between the last blind and the sash a shaft of wan light entered like a spear and touched the embossed brasses of the candlesticks upon the altar that gleamed like the battle-worn mail armour of angels.
暗红色的光线透过垂下的百叶窗照射进来，淹没了教堂。一束苍白的光线像长矛一样从最后一道百叶窗和窗框之间的缝隙射了进来，照到了祭坛上的黄铜浮雕烛台上，这些烛台闪闪发光，就像天使们久经沙场的锁子甲一样。

Rain was falling on the chapel, on the garden, on the college. It would rain for ever, noiselessly. The water would rise inch by inch, covering the grass and shrubs, covering the trees and houses, covering the monuments and the mountain tops. All life would be choked off, noiselessly: birds, men, elephants, pigs, children: noiselessly floating corpses amid the litter of the wreckage of the world. Forty days and forty nights the rain would fall till the waters covered the face of the earth.
雨落在教堂、花园和学院上。雨会一直下下去，无声无息。水会一寸一寸地上涨，覆盖草地和灌木，覆盖树木和房屋，覆盖纪念碑和山顶。所有的生命都将被无声地窒息：鸟类、人、大象、猪、儿童：无声地漂浮在世界废墟中的尸体。四十天四十夜的雨一直下着，直到水淹没了地面。

It might be. Why not?
有可能。为什么不？

—HELL HAS ENLARGED ITS SOUL AND OPENED ITS MOUTH WITHOUT ANY LIMITS— words taken, my dear little brothers in Christ Jesus, from the book of Isaias, fifth chapter, fourteenth verse. In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen.
——地狱已经扩大了它的灵魂，并无限制地张开了它的嘴——我亲爱的基督耶稣里的小兄弟们，摘自《以赛亚书》第五章第十四节的话。以父、子、圣灵的名义。阿门。

The preacher took a chainless watch from a pocket within his soutane and, having considered its dial for a moment in silence, placed it silently before him on the table.
传教士从他的口袋里拿出一块无链表，默默地审视了它的表盘一会儿，然后默默地将它放在他面前的桌子上。

He began to speak in a quiet tone.
他开始用平静的语气说话。

—Adam and Eve, my dear boys, were, as you know, our first parents, and you will remember that they were created by God in order that the seats in heaven left vacant by the fall of Lucifer and his rebellious angels might be filled again. Lucifer, we are told, was a son of the morning, a radiant and mighty angel; yet he fell: he fell and there fell with him a third part of the host of heaven: he fell and was hurled with his rebellious angels into hell. What his sin was we cannot say. Theologians consider that it was the sin of pride, the sinful thought conceived in an instant: NON SERVIAM: I WILL NOT SERVE. That instant was his ruin.
——亚当和夏娃，我亲爱的孩子们，如你们所知，是我们的始祖，你们会记得，他们是上帝创造的，以便填补因路西法和他叛逆的天使堕落而留下的天堂席位。再次。据我们所知，路西法是早晨之子，一位光芒四射、强大的天使。然而他倒下了：他倒下了，天上的三分之一的天军也跟着他倒下了：他倒下了，并与他叛逆的天使一起被扔进了地狱。他的罪孽是什么我们无法说。神学家认为这是骄傲之罪，是瞬间产生的罪恶思想：不服务：我不会服务。那一瞬间就是他的毁灭。

He offended the majesty of God by the sinful thought of one instant and God cast him out of heaven into hell for ever.
他一瞬间的罪恶思想冒犯了上帝的威严，上帝把他从天堂永远扔进了地狱。

—Adam and Eve were then created by God and placed in Eden, in the plain of Damascus, that lovely garden resplendent with sunlight and colour, teeming with luxuriant vegetation. The fruitful earth gave them her bounty: beasts and birds were their willing servants: they knew not the ills our flesh is heir to, disease and poverty and death: all that a great and generous God could do for them was done. But there was one condition imposed on them by God: obedience to His word. They were not to eat of the fruit of the forbidden tree.
——上帝创造了亚当和夏娃，并将他们安置在大马士革平原的伊甸园里，那是一个阳光明媚、色彩斑斓、植被繁茂的美丽花园。肥沃的大地给予了他们慷慨的馈赠：野兽和鸟类是他们心甘情愿的仆人：他们不知道我们的肉体所承受的苦难，疾病、贫穷和死亡：伟大而慷慨的上帝能为他们做的一切都已经完成了。但神给他们提出了一个条件：服从他的话语。他们不可吃禁树上的果子。

—Alas, my dear little boys, they too fell. The devil, once a shining angel, a son of the morning, now a foul fiend came in the shape of a serpent, the subtlest of all the beasts of the field. He envied them. He, the fallen great one, could not bear to think that man, a being of clay, should possess the inheritance which he by his sin had forfeited for ever. He came to the woman, the weaker vessel, and poured the poison of his eloquence into her ear, promising her—O, the blasphemy of that promise!—that if she and Adam ate of the forbidden fruit they would become as gods, nay as God Himself. Eve yielded to the wiles of the archtempter. She ate the apple and gave it also to Adam who had not the moral courage to resist her. The poison tongue of Satan had done its work. They fell.
——唉，我亲爱的小孩子们，他们也跌倒了。魔鬼，曾经是闪亮的天使，早晨之子，现在变成了邪恶的恶魔，化身为蛇，是野外所有野兽中最狡猾的。他很羡慕他们。他，这位堕落的伟人，无法忍受认为人，一个泥土的存在，应该拥有他因罪孽而永远丧失的继承权。他来到女人身边，这个较弱的器皿，把他的雄辩毒药倒进她的耳朵里，向她许诺——噢，这个许诺是亵渎的！——如果她和亚当吃了禁果，他们就会成为神，不，就像神自己一样。夏娃屈服于大诱惑者的诡计。她吃了苹果，也给了亚当，亚当没有道德勇气反抗她。撒但的毒舌已经完成了它的工作。他们跌倒了。

—And then the voice of God was heard in that garden, calling His creature man to account: and Michael, prince of the heavenly host, with a sword of flame in his hand, appeared before the guilty pair and drove them forth from Eden into the world, the world of sickness and striving, of cruelty and disappointment, of labour and hardship, to earn their bread in the sweat of their brow. But even then how merciful was God! He took pity on our poor degraded parents and promised that in the fullness of time He would send down from heaven One who would redeem them, make them once more children of God and heirs to the kingdom of heaven: and that One, that Redeemer of fallen man, was to be God’s only begotten Son, the Second Person of the Most Blessed Trinity, the Eternal Word.
——然后，上帝的声音在那个花园里响起，要求他的创造物人类承担责任：天军王子米迦勒，手里拿着一把火焰剑，出现在这对有罪的夫妇面前，把他们从伊甸园赶到了那里。这个世界，一个充满疾病和奋斗的世界，一个充满残酷和失望的世界，一个充满劳动和艰辛的世界，他们要靠汗水换取面包。但即便如此，上帝还是多么仁慈啊！他怜悯我们可怜、堕落的父母，并应许，在时候满足的时候，他会从天上降下一位来救赎他们，使他们再次成为神的儿女和天国的继承人：这一位，就是神的救赎主。堕落的人，将成为上帝的独生子，最受祝福的三位一体的第二位，永恒的道。

—He came. He was born of a virgin pure, Mary the virgin mother. He was born in a poor cowhouse in Judea and lived as a humble carpenter for thirty years until the hour of His mission had come. And then, filled with love for men, He went forth and called to men to hear the new gospel.
-他来了。他是由童贞女玛利亚所生。他出生在犹太地一个贫穷的牛舍里，作为一个卑微的木匠生活了三十年，直到他传教的时刻到来。然后，他满怀对人类的爱，出去呼召人们聆听新福音。

—Did they listen? Yes, they listened but would not hear. He was seized and bound like a common criminal, mocked at as a fool, set aside to give place to a public robber, scourged with five thousand lashes, crowned with a crown of thorns, hustled through the streets by the jewish rabble and the Roman soldiery, stripped of his garments and hanged upon a gibbet and His side was pierced with a lance and from the wounded body of our Lord water and blood issued continually.
——他们听了吗？是的，他们听了，但没有听。他像普通罪犯一样被抓住并捆绑，被嘲笑为傻瓜，被放在一边让位给公共强盗，被鞭打五千鞭，被戴上荆棘王冠，被犹太乌合之众和罗马人赶过街道。士兵们，他的衣服被剥光，挂在绞刑架上，他的肋旁被长矛刺穿，水和血不断地从我们主受伤的身体中流出。

—Yet even then, in that hour of supreme agony, Our Merciful Redeemer had pity for mankind. Yet even there, on the hill of Calvary, He founded the holy catholic church against which, it is promised, the gates of hell shall not prevail. He founded it upon the rock of ages, and endowed it with His grace, with sacraments and sacrifice, and promised that if men would obey the word of His church they would still enter into eternal life; but if, after all that had been done for them, they still persisted in their wickedness, there remained for them an eternity of torment: hell.
——然而即使在那时，在那极度痛苦的时刻，我们仁慈的救赎主仍然对人类表示怜悯。然而，即使在那里，在加略山上，他也建立了神圣的天主教会，并应许地狱之门将无法战胜它。他把它建立在万古的磐石上，并赋予它恩典、圣礼和献祭，并应许说，如果人们遵守他教会的话语，他们仍然会进入永生。但如果在为他们做了这一切之后，他们仍然坚持自己的邪恶，那么他们就会面临永恒的折磨：地狱。

The preacher’s voice sank. He paused, joined his palms for an instant, parted them. Then he resumed:
传教士的声音沉了下来。他停了下来，手掌合拢了一会儿，又分开了。然后他继续说道：

—Now let us try for a moment to realize, as far as we can, the nature of that abode of the damned which the justice of an offended God has called into existence for the eternal punishment of sinners. Hell is a strait and dark and foul-smelling prison, an abode of demons and lost souls, filled with fire and smoke. The straitness of this prison house is expressly designed by God to punish those who refused to be bound by His laws. In earthly prisons the poor captive has at least some liberty of movement, were it only within the four walls of his cell or in the gloomy yard of his prison. Not so in hell. There, by reason of the great number of the damned, the prisoners are heaped together in their awful prison, the walls of which are said to be four thousand miles thick: and the damned are so utterly bound and helpless that, as a blessed saint, saint Anselm, writes in his book on similitudes, they are not even able to remove from the eye a worm that gnaws it.
——现在让我们尽可能地尝试一下，认识一下被冒犯的上帝的正义为了对罪人进行永恒惩罚而建立的受诅咒的居所的本质。地狱是一座狭窄、黑暗、恶臭的监狱，是恶魔和迷失灵魂的住所，充满火焰和烟雾。这座监狱的狭窄是上帝明确设计的，目的是惩罚那些拒绝受他的律法约束的人。在尘世的监狱里，可怜的俘虏至少有一定的行动自由，无论是在牢房的四墙内还是在监狱阴暗的院子里。在地狱里却不是这样。在那里，由于被诅咒的人数量众多，囚犯们被堆放在可怕的监狱里，据说监狱的墙有四千英里厚：被诅咒的人被完全束缚和无助，就像一位受祝福的圣人一样圣人安瑟姆在他关于比喻的书中写道，他们甚至无法从眼睛中取出啃咬眼睛的虫子。

—They lie in exterior darkness. For, remember, the fire of hell gives forth no light. As, at the command of God, the fire of the Babylonian furnace lost its heat but not its light, so, at the command of God, the fire of hell, while retaining the intensity of its heat, burns eternally in darkness. It is a never ending storm of darkness, dark flames and dark smoke of burning brimstone, amid which the bodies are heaped one upon another without even a glimpse of air. Of all the plagues with which the land of the Pharaohs were smitten one plague alone, that of darkness, was called horrible. What name, then, shall we give to the darkness of hell which is to last not for three days alone but for all eternity?
——他们躺在外面的黑暗中。因为，请记住，地狱之火不会发光。正如按照上帝的命令，巴比伦熔炉的火失去了热量，但没有失去光一样，按照上帝的命令，地狱之火在保持其热量强度的同时，在黑暗中永远燃烧。这是一场永无休止的黑暗风暴，黑暗的火焰和硫磺燃烧的黑烟，尸体一个接一个地堆积在其中，连一丝空气都没有。在法老的土地遭受的所有瘟疫中，只有一种瘟疫，即黑暗瘟疫，被称为可怕的瘟疫。那么，我们应该给地狱的黑暗起什么名字呢？它不仅仅持续三天，而是永远持续下去？

—The horror of this strait and dark prison is increased by its awful stench. All the filth of the world, all the offal and scum of the world, we are told, shall run there as to a vast reeking sewer when the terrible conflagration of the last day has purged the world. The brimstone, too, which burns there in such prodigious quantity fills all hell with its intolerable stench; and the bodies of the damned themselves exhale such a pestilential odour that, as saint Bonaventure says, one of them alone would suffice to infect the whole world. The very air of this world, that pure element, becomes foul and unbreathable when it has been long enclosed. Consider then what must be the foulness of the air of hell. Imagine some foul and putrid corpse that has lain rotting and decomposing in the grave, a jelly-like mass of liquid corruption. Imagine such a corpse a prey to flames, devoured by the fire of burning brimstone and giving off dense choking fumes of nauseous loathsome decomposition. And then imagine this sickening stench, multiplied a millionfold and a millionfold again from the millions upon millions of fetid carcasses massed together in the reeking darkness, a huge and rotting human fungus. Imagine all this, and you will have some idea of the horror of the stench of hell.
——这座狭长而黑暗的监狱散发着可怕的恶臭，更加令人恐惧。我们被告知，当末日的可怕大火净化了世界时，世界上所有的污秽、世界上所有的内脏和浮渣都将流向那里，就像一条巨大的、散发着恶臭的下水道。在那里燃烧的硫磺数量如此惊人，使整个地狱充满了令人难以忍受的恶臭。受诅咒者的尸体散发出一种瘟疫般的气味，正如圣文德所说，仅其中一人就足以感染整个世界。这个世界的空气，那种纯粹的元素，在长期被封闭之后，就会变得污浊不堪，无法呼吸。那么请想一想，地狱的空气一定是肮脏的。想象一下一些肮脏腐烂的尸体在坟墓里腐烂分解，变成一团果冻状的液体腐败物。想象一下，这样一具尸体成为火焰的牺牲品，被燃烧的硫磺之火吞噬，并散发出令人作呕、令人厌恶的腐烂物，令人窒息。然后想象一下，这种令人作呕的恶臭，从数以百万计的恶臭尸体聚集在臭气熏天的黑暗中，成倍地增加了数百万倍，这是一种巨大的腐烂的人类真菌。想象一下这一切，你就会对地狱恶臭的恐怖有所了解。

—But this stench is not, horrible though it is, the greatest physical torment to which the damned are subjected. The torment of fire is the greatest torment to which the tyrant has ever subjected his fellow creatures. Place your finger for a moment in the flame of a candle and you will feel the pain of fire. But our earthly fire was created by God for the benefit of man, to maintain in him the spark of life and to help him in the useful arts, whereas the fire of hell is of another quality and was created by God to torture and punish the unrepentant sinner. Our earthly fire also consumes more or less rapidly according as the object which it attacks is more or less combustible, so that human ingenuity has even succeeded in inventing chemical preparations to check or frustrate its action. But the sulphurous brimstone which burns in hell is a substance which is specially designed to burn for ever and for ever with unspeakable fury. Moreover, our earthly fire destroys at the same time as it burns, so that the more intense it is the shorter is its duration; but the fire of hell has this property, that it preserves that which it burns, and, though it rages with incredible intensity, it rages for ever.
——尽管这种恶臭很可怕，但它并不是对受诅咒的人所遭受的最大的肉体折磨。火的折磨是暴君对他的同胞所遭受的最大的折磨。将手指放在蜡烛的火焰中片刻，你会感受到火焰般的疼痛。但是，我们尘世的火是上帝为了人类的利益而创造的，为了维持他生命的火花并帮助他进行有用的艺术，而地狱之火则具有另一种性质，是上帝为了折磨和惩罚人类而创造的。不悔改的罪人。我们的地球之火也会根据其所攻击的物体的可燃程度而或多或少地迅速燃烧，因此人类的聪明才智甚至成功地发明了化学制剂来阻止或挫败其作用。但在地狱中燃烧的硫磺是一种特殊设计的物质，它会以难以言喻的愤怒永远燃烧。此外，我们的地球之火在燃烧的同时也会毁灭，所以它越强烈，它的持续时间就越短。但地狱之火有这样的特性，它会保留它所燃烧的东西，而且，尽管它以令人难以置信的强度肆虐，但它会永远肆虐。

—Our earthly fire again, no matter how fierce or widespread it may be, is always of a limited extent; but the lake of fire in hell is boundless, shoreless and bottomless. It is on record that the devil himself, when asked the question by a certain soldier, was obliged to confess that if a whole mountain were thrown into the burning ocean of hell it would be burned up In an instant like a piece of wax. And this terrible fire will not afflict the bodies of the damned only from without, but each lost soul will be a hell unto itself, the boundless fire raging in its very vitals. O, how terrible is the lot of those wretched beings! The blood seethes and boils in the veins, the brains are boiling in the skull, the heart in the breast glowing and bursting, the bowels a red-hot mass of burning pulp, the tender eyes flaming like molten balls.
——我们的尘世之火，无论它多么猛烈或广泛，其程度始终是有限的；但地狱的火湖是无边无际、无边无底的。据记载，魔鬼本人在被某个士兵问到这个问题时，不得不承认，如果把整座山扔进地狱的火海里，它就会像一块蜡一样立刻被烧毁。这种可怕的火焰不仅会从外部折磨那些被诅咒的人的身体，但每个迷失的灵魂本身就是一个地狱，无边的火焰在其生命力中肆虐。哦，这些可怜人的命运是多么可怕啊！血液在静脉中沸腾，大脑在颅骨中沸腾，心脏在胸膛中发光并爆裂，肠子里有一团烧红的果肉，温柔的眼睛像熔球一样燃烧着。

—And yet what I have said as to the strength and quality and boundlessness of this fire is as nothing when compared to its intensity, an intensity which it has as being the instrument chosen by divine design for the punishment of soul and body alike. It is a fire which proceeds directly from the ire of God, working not of its own activity but as an instrument of Divine vengeance. As the waters of baptism cleanse the soul with the body, so do the fires of punishment torture the spirit with the flesh. Every sense of the flesh is tortured and every faculty of the soul therewith: the eyes with impenetrable utter darkness, the nose with noisome odours, the ears with yells and howls and execrations, the taste with foul matter, leprous corruption, nameless suffocating filth, the touch with redhot goads and spikes, with cruel tongues of flame. And through the several torments of the senses the immortal soul is tortured eternally in its very essence amid the leagues upon leagues of glowing fires kindled in the abyss by the offended majesty of the Omnipotent God and fanned into everlasting and ever-increasing fury by the breath of the anger of the God-head.
——然而，我所说的关于这火的强度、质量和无限性，与它的强度相比，简直是微不足道，它的强度是神圣设计所选择的惩罚灵魂和身体的工具。它是直接从上帝的愤怒中产生的火焰，它的作用不是其自身的活动，而是作为神圣复仇的工具。正如洗礼之水净化灵魂和身体一样，惩罚之火也折磨灵魂和肉体。肉体的每一个感官都受到折磨，灵魂的每一个官能也随之受到折磨：眼睛充满了无法穿透的完全黑暗，鼻子充满了恶臭，耳朵充满了叫喊、嚎叫和咒骂，味道充满了肮脏的物质，麻风病的腐败，无名的令人窒息的污秽，炽热的刺棒和尖刺的触碰，以及残酷的火焰之舌的触碰。通过各种感官的折磨，不朽的灵魂在其本质上受到永恒的折磨，在深渊中被冒犯的全能上帝的威严点燃的无数联盟的炽热火焰中，并通过呼吸煽动成永恒的、不断增加的愤怒。神的愤怒。

—Consider finally that the torment of this infernal prison is increased by the company of the damned themselves. Evil company on earth is so noxious that the plants, as if by instinct, withdraw from the company of whatsoever is deadly or hurtful to them. In hell all laws are overturned—there is no thought of family or country, of ties, of relationships. The damned howl and scream at one another, their torture and rage intensified by the presence of beings tortured and raging like themselves. All sense of humanity is forgotten. The yells of the suffering sinners fill the remotest corners of the vast abyss. The mouths of the damned are full of blasphemies against God and of hatred for their fellow sufferers and of curses against those souls which were their accomplices in sin. In olden times it was the custom to punish the parricide, the man who had raised his murderous hand against his father, by casting him into the depths of the sea in a sack in which were placed a cock, a monkey, and a serpent. The intention of those law-givers who framed such a law, which seems cruel in our times, was to punish the criminal by the company of hurtful and hateful beasts. But what is the fury of those dumb beasts compared with the fury of execration which bursts from the parched lips and aching throats of the damned in hell when they behold in their companions in misery those who aided and abetted them in sin, those whose words sowed the first seeds of evil thinking and evil living in their minds, those whose immodest suggestions led them on to sin, those whose eyes tempted and allured them from the path of virtue. They turn upon those accomplices and upbraid them and curse them. But they are helpless and hopeless: it is too late now for repentance.
——最后想想，这个地狱监狱的折磨因与受诅咒的人在一起而加剧。地球上的邪恶伙伴是如此有害，以至于植物似乎本能地远离任何对它们致命或有害的东西。在地狱里，所有的法律都被推翻了——没有家庭、国家、纽带、关系的思想。这些该死的互相嚎叫和尖叫，他们的折磨和愤怒因像他们一样遭受折磨和愤怒的存在而加剧。所有的人性意识都被遗忘了。受苦罪人的呼喊声充满了浩瀚深渊的最偏远的角落。被诅咒者的口中充满了对上帝的亵渎、对同胞的仇恨以及对那些与他们同罪的灵魂的咒骂。在古代，惩罚弑父者（即对父亲举起凶手的人）的习俗是，将他装在一个袋子里，扔进深海，袋子里装着一只公鸡、一只猴子和一条蛇。制定这样一部在我们这个时代看来很残酷的法律的立法者的意图是，让那些充满伤害和可恨的野兽来惩罚罪犯。但是，当地狱里的受咒者看到他们的同伴在痛苦中，那些帮助和教唆他们犯罪的人，那些言语播下种子的人时，那些哑巴野兽的愤怒与从地狱里的受诅咒的人干裂的嘴唇和疼痛的喉咙中爆发出来的咒骂相比又算什么呢？邪恶思想的最初种子和邪恶生活在他们的思想中，那些不谦虚的建议导致他们犯罪的人，那些眼睛诱惑并引诱他们离开美德之路的人。他们转而攻击那些同谋，斥责他们，咒骂他们。但他们又无助又绝望：现在悔改已经太晚了。

—Last of all consider the frightful torment to those damned souls, tempters and tempted alike, of the company of the devils. These devils will afflict the damned in two ways, by their presence and by their reproaches. We can have no idea of how horrible these devils are. Saint Catherine of Siena once saw a devil and she has written that, rather than look again for one single instant on such a frightful monster, she would prefer to walk until the end of her life along a track of red coals. These devils, who were once beautiful angels, have become as hideous and ugly as they once were beautiful. They mock and jeer at the lost souls whom they dragged down to ruin. It is they, the foul demons, who are made in hell the voices of conscience. Why did you sin? Why did you lend an ear to the temptings of friends? Why did you turn aside from your pious practices and good works? Why did you not shun the occasions of sin? Why did you not leave that evil companion? Why did you not give up that lewd habit, that impure habit? Why did you not listen to the counsels of your confessor? Why did you not, even after you had fallen the first or the second or the third or the fourth or the hundredth time, repent of your evil ways and turn to God who only waited for your repentance to absolve you of your sins? Now the time for repentance has gone by. Time is, time was, but time shall be no more! Time was to sin in secrecy, to indulge in that sloth and pride, to covet the unlawful, to yield to the promptings of your lower nature, to live like the beasts of the field, nay worse than the beasts of the field, for they, at least, are but brutes and have no reason to guide them: time was, but time shall be no more. God spoke to you by so many voices, but you would not hear. You would not crush out that pride and anger in your heart, you would not restore those ill-gotten goods, you would not obey the precepts of your holy church nor attend to your religious duties, you would not abandon those wicked companions, you would not avoid those dangerous temptations. Such is the language of those fiendish tormentors, words of taunting and of reproach, of hatred and of disgust. Of disgust, yes! For even they, the very devils, when they sinned, sinned by such a sin as alone was compatible with such angelical natures, a rebellion of the intellect: and they, even they, the foul devils must turn away, revolted and disgusted, from the contemplation of those unspeakable sins by which degraded man outrages and defiles the temple of the Holy Ghost, defiles and pollutes himself.
——最后，想想那些该死的灵魂，无论是诱惑者还是受诱惑者，与魔鬼为伍所遭受的可怕折磨。这些魔鬼将以两种方式折磨受诅咒的人：他们的存在和他们的责备。我们无法想象这些恶魔有多么可怕。锡耶纳的圣凯瑟琳曾经见过一个魔鬼，她写道，与其再看一眼如此可怕的怪物，她宁愿沿着一条红煤之路走到生命的尽头。这些曾经是美丽天使的恶魔，如今变得和曾经美丽一样丑陋丑陋。他们嘲笑和嘲笑那些被他们拖入毁灭的迷失灵魂。正是他们，这些邪恶的恶魔，在地狱中成为了良心的声音。你为什么犯罪？你为什么要听从朋友的诱惑呢？为什么你放弃了虔诚的修行和善行？你为什么不避开犯罪的场合呢？你为什么不离开那个邪恶的同伴？你为什么不放弃那个淫荡的习惯、那个不纯洁的习惯呢？你为什么不听告解神父的劝告呢？即使在你跌倒了第一次、第二次、第三次、第四次或第一百次之后，为什么你不悔改你的恶行并转向只等待你悔改来赦免你罪孽的神呢？现在悔改的时候已经过去了。时间过去了，时间过去了，但时间将不复存在！是时候偷偷地犯罪了，沉迷于懒惰和骄傲，贪图不法之事，屈服于低等本性的刺激，像田野里的野兽一样生活，甚至比田野里的野兽更糟糕，因为它们至少，他们只是畜生，没有理由引导他们：时间曾经存在，但时间将不复存在。神用许多声音对你说话，但你却听不到。 你不会消灭心中的骄傲和愤怒，你不会归还那些不义之财，你不会遵守你神圣教会的戒律，也不会履行你的宗教义务，你不会抛弃那些邪恶的同伴，你不会不回避那些危险的诱惑。这就是那些邪恶的折磨者的语言，嘲讽和责备、仇恨和厌恶的言语。厌恶，是的！因为即使是他们，魔鬼，当他们犯罪时，犯下的罪孽是与天使般的本性相容的，这是对理智的反叛：而他们，甚至是他们，邪恶的魔鬼也必须转身离开，反抗和厌恶，从沉思那些无法形容的罪恶，堕落的人借此侮辱和玷污了圣灵的圣殿，玷污和污染了自己。

—O, my dear little brothers in Christ, may it never be our lot to hear that language! May it never be our lot, I say! In the last day of terrible reckoning I pray fervently to God that not a single soul of those who are in this chapel today may be found among those miserable beings whom the Great Judge shall command to depart for ever from His sight, that not one of us may ever hear ringing in his ears the awful sentence of rejection: DEPART FROM ME, YE CURSED, INTO EVERLASTING FIRE WHICH WAS PREPARED FOR THE DEVIL AND HIS ANGELS!
——哦，我亲爱的基督里的小兄弟们，愿我们永远不会听到那种语言！但愿这永远不会成为我们的命运，我说！在可怕清算的最后一天，我热切地向上帝祈祷，愿今天在这个教堂里的人中，没有一个人是伟大法官命令永远离开他视线的那些悲惨的人。我们可能会听到他耳边响起可怕的拒绝句子：离开我，你们这些被诅咒的人，进入为魔鬼和他的天使准备的永恒之火！

He came down the aisle of the chapel, his legs shaking and the scalp of his head trembling as though it had been touched by ghostly fingers. He passed up the staircase and into the corridor along the walls of which the overcoats and waterproofs hung like gibbeted malefactors, headless and dripping and shapeless. And at every step he feared that he had already died, that his soul had been wrenched forth of the sheath of his body, that he was plunging headlong through space.
他沿着教堂的过道走下来，双腿颤抖，头皮颤抖，仿佛被幽灵的手指触碰过。他走上楼梯，进入走廊，沿着墙壁，大衣和防水衣像被绞死的罪犯一样挂在走廊上，无头，滴水，无形。每走一步，他都担心自己已​​经死了，他的灵魂已被从他的躯壳中挣脱出来，他正在一头扎进太空。

He could not grip the floor with his feet and sat heavily at his desk, opening one of his books at random and poring over it. Every word for him. It was true. God was almighty. God could call him now, call him as he sat at his desk, before he had time to be conscious of the summons. God had called him. Yes? What? Yes? His flesh shrank together as it felt the approach of the ravenous tongues of flames, dried up as it felt about it the swirl of stifling air. He had died. Yes. He was judged. A wave of fire swept through his body: the first. Again a wave. His brain began to glow. Another. His brain was simmering and bubbling within the cracking tenement of the skull. Flames burst forth from his skull like a corolla, shrieking like voices:
他双脚抓不住地板，重重地坐在办公桌前，随意翻开一本书，仔细地阅读起来。每句话都是为他说的。这是真的。上帝是全能的。上帝现在可以召唤他，在他坐在办公桌前时召唤他，在他有时间意识到召唤之前。神呼召了他。是的？什么？是的？当它感受到贪婪的火舌逼近时，他的肉体收缩在一起，当它感受到周围令人窒息的空气漩涡时，他的肉体变得干燥。他已经死了。是的。他被审判了。一股火浪席卷了他的身体：第一。又一挥手。他的大脑开始发光。其他。他的大脑在开裂的头骨中沸腾并冒泡。火焰如花冠般从他的头骨中迸发，发出如声音般的尖叫：

—Hell! Hell! Hell! Hell! Hell!
-地狱！地狱！地狱！地狱！地狱！

Voices spoke near him:
他附近有声音说话：

—On hell.
——论地狱。

—I suppose he rubbed it into you well.
——我想他已经把它深深地印在了你身上。

—You bet he did. He put us all into a blue funk.
——你打赌他做到了。他让我们所有人都陷入了忧郁的恐惧之中。

—That’s what you fellows want: and plenty of it to make you work.
——这就是你们想要的：并且有足够的东西让你们工作。

He leaned back weakly in his desk. He had not died. God had spared him still. He was still in the familiar world of the school. Mr Tate and Vincent Heron stood at the window, talking, jesting, gazing out at the bleak rain, moving their heads.
他无力地靠在办公桌上。他还没有死。上帝仍然饶恕了他。他还在学校熟悉的世界里。泰特先生和文森特·海伦站在窗前，一边说话，一边开玩笑，一边转动着头，一边凝视着窗外凄凉的雨景。

—I wish it would clear up. I had arranged to go for a spin on the bike with some fellows out by Malahide. But the roads must be knee-deep.
——我希望事情能够澄清。我已经安排和一些人一起去马拉海德骑自行车兜风。但道路必须齐膝深。

—It might clear up, sir.
——情况可能会好起来，先生。

The voices that he knew so well, the common words, the quiet of the classroom when the voices paused and the silence was filled by the sound of softly browsing cattle as the other boys munched their lunches tranquilly, lulled his aching soul.
他熟悉的声音，常见的词语，当声音停顿时教室里的安静，当其他男孩安静地咀嚼午餐时，安静中充满了轻柔地吃牛的声音，安抚了他疼痛的灵魂。

There was still time. O Mary, refuge of sinners, intercede for him! O Virgin Undefiled, save him from the gulf of death!
还有时间。罪人的避难所玛利亚啊，请为他代求！无垢圣母啊，救他脱离死亡的深渊！

The English lesson began with the hearing of the history. Royal persons, favourites, intriguers, bishops, passed like mute phantoms behind their veil of names. All had died: all had been judged. What did it profit a man to gain the whole world if he lost his soul? At last he had understood: and human life lay around him, a plain of peace whereon ant-like men laboured in brotherhood, their dead sleeping under quiet mounds. The elbow of his companion touched him and his heart was touched: and when he spoke to answer a question of his master he heard his own voice full of the quietude of humility and contrition.
英语课从听历史开始。皇室成员、宠臣、阴谋家、主教，都像沉默的幽灵一样躲在名字的面纱后面。所有人都死了：所有人都受到了审判。一个人如果失去了自己的灵魂，即使赢得了全世界又有什么好处呢？最后他明白了：人类的生活就在他周围，一片和平的平原上，蚂蚁般的人们兄弟般地劳作，他们的死者睡在安静的土堆下。他同伴的肘部触碰了他，他的心也被触动了：当他回答主人的问题时，他听到自己的声音充满了谦卑和悔悟的平静。

His soul sank back deeper into depths of contrite peace, no longer able to suffer the pain of dread, and sending forth, as he sank, a faint prayer. Ah yes, he would still be spared; he would repent in his heart and be forgiven; and then those above, those in heaven, would see what he would do to make up for the past: a whole life, every hour of life. Only wait.
他的灵魂更深地沉入了悔悟的平静之中，再也无法承受恐惧的痛苦，在沉沦的同时，发出微弱的祈祷。啊，是的，他仍然会幸免；他会在心里悔改并得到宽恕；然后，那些在天上的人，那些在天上的人，就会看到他会做什么来弥补过去：一生，生命中的每个小时。只能等待。

—All, God! All, all!
——天哪！全部，全部！

A messenger came to the door to say that confessions were being heard in the chapel. Four boys left the room; and he heard others passing down the corridor. A tremulous chill blew round his heart, no stronger than a little wind, and yet, listening and suffering silently, he seemed to have laid an ear against the muscle of his own heart, feeling it close and quail, listening to the flutter of its ventricles.
一名信使来到门口，说教堂里正在听忏悔。四个男孩离开了房间；他听到其他人沿着走廊走过。一阵颤抖的寒意吹过他的心，不比微风强，然而，他默默地听着，痛苦着，仿佛把一只耳朵贴在了自己的心脏肌肉上，感觉它靠近，颤抖着，听着它的颤动。心室。

No escape. He had to confess, to speak out in words what he had done and thought, sin after sin. How? How?
无处可逃。他必须承认，用言语说出他所做的和所想的，一个接一个的罪。如何？如何？

—Father, I...
——父亲，我……

The thought slid like a cold shining rapier into his tender flesh: confession. But not there in the chapel of the college. He would confess all, every sin of deed and thought, sincerely; but not there among his school companions. Far away from there in some dark place he would murmur out his own shame; and he besought God humbly not to be offended with him if he did not dare to confess in the college chapel and in utter abjection of spirit he craved forgiveness mutely of the boyish hearts about him.
这个念头像一把冰冷闪亮的剑刺入他柔软的肉体：忏悔。但在学院的教堂里却没有。他会真诚地承认自己行为和思想上的一切罪过；但在他的学校同伴中却没有。在远离那里的某个黑暗的地方，他会低声诉说自己的耻辱。他谦卑地恳求上帝，如果他不敢在大学教堂里忏悔的话，不要冒犯他；他在精神上彻底落魄，默默地祈求周围孩子气的宽恕。

Time passed.
时间飞逝。

He sat again in the front bench of the chapel. The daylight without was already failing and, as it fell slowly through the dull red blinds, it seemed that the sun of the last day was going down and that all souls were being gathered for the judgement.
他再次坐在教堂前排的长凳上。外面的日光已经暗了下来，当它慢慢地穿过暗红色的百叶窗时，似乎是最后一天的太阳正在落下，所有的灵魂都在聚集起来接受审判。

—I AM CAST AWAY FROM THE SIGHT OF THINE EYES: words taken, my dear little brothers in Christ, from the Book of Psalms, thirtieth chapter, twenty-third verse. In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen.
——我从你的眼前被抛弃了：我亲爱的基督里的小兄弟们，摘自《诗篇》第三十章第二十三节的话。以父、子、圣灵的名义。阿门。

The preacher began to speak in a quiet friendly tone. His face was kind and he joined gently the fingers of each hand, forming a frail cage by the union of their tips.
传教士开始用平静友好的语气讲话。他面带慈祥，轻轻地握住每只手的手指，指尖结合在一起，形成一个脆弱的笼子。

—This morning we endeavoured, in our reflection upon hell, to make what our holy founder calls in his book of spiritual exercises, the composition of place. We endeavoured, that is, to imagine with the senses of the mind, in our imagination, the material character of that awful place and of the physical torments which all who are in hell endure. This evening we shall consider for a few moments the nature of the spiritual torments of hell.
——今天早上，我们在反思地狱时，努力将我们的神圣创始人在他的精神练习书中所说的地方称为“场所的构成”。也就是说，我们努力用心灵的感官，在我们的想象中，想象那个可怕地方的物质特征，以及所有在地狱里的人所忍受的肉体折磨。今晚我们将思考一下地狱精神折磨的本质。

—Sin, remember, is a twofold enormity. It is a base consent to the promptings of our corrupt nature to the lower instincts, to that which is gross and beast-like; and it is also a turning away from the counsel of our higher nature, from all that is pure and holy, from the Holy God Himself. For this reason mortal sin is punished in hell by two different forms of punishment, physical and spiritual.
——记住，罪是双重的罪恶。这是对我们腐败本性的低级本能、粗俗和野兽般的冲动的基本同意。这也是对我们更高本性的忠告的背离，背离一切纯洁和神圣的事物，背离神圣的上帝本身。因此，大罪在地狱中受到两种不同形式的惩罚：肉体的和精神的。

Now of all these spiritual pains by far the greatest is the pain of loss, so great, in fact, that in itself it is a torment greater than all the others. Saint Thomas, the greatest doctor of the church, the angelic doctor, as he is called, says that the worst damnation consists in this, that the understanding of man is totally deprived of divine light and his affection obstinately turned away from the goodness of God. God, remember, is a being infinitely good, and therefore the loss of such a being must be a loss infinitely painful. In this life we have not a very clear idea of what such a loss must be, but the damned in hell, for their greater torment, have a full understanding of that which they have lost, and understand that they have lost it through their own sins and have lost it for ever. At the very instant of death the bonds of the flesh are broken asunder and the soul at once flies towards God as towards the centre of her existence. Remember, my dear little boys, our souls long to be with God. We come from God, we live by God, we belong to God: we are His, inalienably His. God loves with a divine love every human soul, and every human soul lives in that love. How could it be otherwise? Every breath that we draw, every thought of our brain, every instant of life proceeds from God’s inexhaustible goodness. And if it be pain for a mother to be parted from her child, for a man to be exiled from hearth and home, for friend to be sundered from friend, O think what pain, what anguish it must be for the poor soul to be spurned from the presence of the supremely good and loving Creator Who has called that soul into existence from nothingness and sustained it in life and loved it with an immeasurable love. This, then, to be separated for ever from its greatest good, from God, and to feel the anguish of that separation, knowing full well that it is unchangeable: this is the greatest torment which the created soul is capable of bearing, POENA DAMNI, the pain of loss.
在所有这些精神痛苦中，最大的是失去的痛苦，事实上，它本身就是一种比所有其他痛苦更大的折磨。圣托马斯，教会最伟大的医生，被称为天使医生，说最严重的诅咒在于，人的理解力完全被剥夺了神圣之光，他的情感顽固地背离了上帝的良善。 。请记住，上帝是一个无限善良的存在，因此失去这样一个存在必然是一种无限痛苦的损失。在今生，我们不太清楚这种损失是什么，但地狱里的受诅咒的人，由于他们遭受了更大的折磨，对他们失去的东西有充分的了解，并且明白他们是通过自己的努力失去了它。罪并永远失去了它。在死亡的那一刻，肉体的束缚被打破，灵魂立即飞向上帝，就像飞向她存在的中心一样。请记住，我亲爱的小孩子们，我们的灵魂渴望与上帝在一起。我们来自上帝，我们靠上帝而活，我们属于上帝：我们是他的，不可剥夺的。上帝以神圣的爱爱每个人的灵魂，每个人的灵魂都生活在这种爱中。不然怎么可能呢？我们的每一次呼吸、我们大脑的每一个想法、生命的每一个瞬间都源自上帝取之不竭的良善。如果一个母亲与她的孩子分离、一个男人被逐出壁炉和家庭、一个朋友与朋友分离是痛苦的话，请想一想，对于这个可怜的灵魂来说，这将是多么痛苦、多么痛苦。被至善至爱的造物主所拒绝，造物主将灵魂从虚无中召唤到存在中，并在生命中维持它，并以不可估量的爱来爱它。 那么，永远与其最大的善、与上帝分离，并感受到这种分离的痛苦，充分了解它是不可改变的：这是受造灵魂能够承受的最大折磨，POENA DAMNI ，失去的痛苦。

The second pain which will afflict the souls of the damned in hell is the pain of conscience. Just as in dead bodies worms are engendered by putrefaction, so in the souls of the lost there arises a perpetual remorse from the putrefaction of sin, the sting of conscience, the worm, as Pope Innocent the Third calls it, of the triple sting. The first sting inflicted by this cruel worm will be the memory of past pleasures. O what a dreadful memory will that be! In the lake of all-devouring flame the proud king will remember the pomps of his court, the wise but wicked man his libraries and instruments of research, the lover of artistic pleasures his marbles and pictures and other art treasures, he who delighted in the pleasures of the table his gorgeous feasts, his dishes prepared with such delicacy, his choice wines; the miser will remember his hoard of gold, the robber his ill-gotten wealth, the angry and revengeful and merciless murderers their deeds of blood and violence in which they revelled, the impure and adulterous the unspeakable and filthy pleasures in which they delighted. They will remember all this and loathe themselves and their sins. For how miserable will all those pleasures seem to the soul condemned to suffer in hellfire for ages and ages. How they will rage and fume to think that they have lost the bliss of heaven for the dross of earth, for a few pieces of metal, for vain honours, for bodily comforts, for a tingling of the nerves. They will repent indeed: and this is the second sting of the worm of conscience, a late and fruitless sorrow for sins committed. Divine justice insists that the understanding of those miserable wretches be fixed continually on the sins of which they were guilty, and moreover, as saint Augustine points out, God will impart to them His own knowledge of sin, so that sin will appear to them in all its hideous malice as it appears to the eyes of God Himself. They will behold their sins in all their foulness and repent but it will be too late and then they will bewail the good occasions which they neglected. This is the last and deepest and most cruel sting of the worm of conscience. The conscience will say: You had time and opportunity to repent and would not. You were brought up religiously by your parents. You had the sacraments and grace and indulgences of the church to aid you. You had the minister of God to preach to you, to call you back when you had strayed, to forgive you your sins, no matter how many, how abominable, if only you had confessed and repented. No. You would not. You flouted the ministers of holy religion, you turned your back on the confessional, you wallowed deeper and deeper in the mire of sin. God appealed to you, threatened you, entreated you to return to Him. O, what shame, what misery! The Ruler of the universe entreated you, a creature of clay, to love Him Who made you and to keep His law. No. You would not. And now, though you were to flood all hell with your tears if you could still weep, all that sea of repentance would not gain for you what a single tear of true repentance shed during your mortal life would have gained for you. You implore now a moment of earthly life wherein to repent: In vain. That time is gone: gone for ever.
地狱中受诅咒者的灵魂遭受的第二种痛苦是良心的痛苦。正如尸体腐烂会产生蠕虫一样，迷失者的灵魂也会因罪恶的腐烂而产生永久的悔恨，即良心的刺痛，正如教皇英诺森三世所称的“三重刺痛”。这种残忍的蠕虫造成的第一个刺痛将是对过去快乐的记忆。哦，那将是多么可怕的回忆啊！在吞噬一切的火焰之湖中，骄傲的国王会记住他宫廷的盛况，聪明但邪恶的人会记住他的图书馆和研究工具，艺术乐趣的爱好者会记住他的大理石、图画和其他艺术珍品，他会记住他的作品。餐桌上的乐趣，他华丽的盛宴，他精心准备的菜肴，他精选的葡萄酒；守财奴会记住他的黄金储备，强盗会记住他的不义之财，愤怒、报复和无情的杀人犯会记住他们所陶醉的血腥和暴力行为，不纯洁和通奸的人会记住他们所享受的难以形容的肮脏的快乐。他们会记住这一切，并厌恶自己和自己的罪恶。对于那些注定要在地狱之火中受苦多年的灵魂来说，所有这些快乐是多么悲惨啊。当他们想到自己为了尘世的渣滓、为了几块金属、为了虚荣的荣誉、为了身体的舒适、为了神经的刺痛而失去了天堂的福祉时，他们会多么愤怒和愤怒。他们确实会悔改：这是良心之虫的第二次叮咬，是对所犯的罪的迟来而徒劳的悲伤。 神圣的正义坚持认为，那些可怜的人的认识必须不断地集中在他们所犯的罪上，而且，正如圣奥古斯丁指出的那样，上帝将向他们传授他自己对罪的认识，以便罪在他们面前显现出来。在上帝本人看来，它的一切都是可怕的恶意。他们会看到自己所有的罪恶并悔改，但为时已晚，然后他们就会为自己忽视的好时机而哀叹。这是良心之虫最后的、最深的、最残酷的刺痛。良心会说：你有时间和机会悔改，但你不肯悔改。你是由你的父母虔诚地抚养长大的。你有教会的圣礼、恩典和赦免来帮助你。你有上帝的牧师向你传道，当你迷失时，他会叫你回来，饶恕你的罪，无论有多少罪，有多么可憎，只要你认罪悔改。不，你不会。你蔑视神圣宗教的牧师，你背弃忏悔室，你在罪恶的泥潭中越陷越深。神向你发出呼吁，威胁你，恳求你回到他身边。噢，这是何等的耻辱，何等的痛苦！宇宙的统治者恳求你，一个泥土的生物，爱创造你的他并遵守他的律法。不，你不会。现在，如果你还能哭泣，尽管你的泪水会淹没整个地狱，但所有悔改的海洋对你来说都不会像你在凡人的一生中流下一滴真正悔改的眼泪所获得的那样。你现在恳求在尘世生活中悔改片刻：徒劳。那个时间已经过去了：永远过去了。

—Such is the threefold sting of conscience, the viper which gnaws the very heart’s core of the wretches in hell, so that filled with hellish fury they curse themselves for their folly and curse the evil companions who have brought them to such ruin and curse the devils who tempted them in life and now mock them in eternity and even revile and curse the Supreme Being Whose goodness and patience they scorned and slighted but Whose justice and power they cannot evade.
——这就是良心的三重刺痛，毒蛇咬伤地狱里受苦者的心脏，以致他们满怀地狱般的愤怒，咒骂自己的愚蠢，咒骂那些使他们陷入如此毁灭的邪恶同伴，咒骂那恶毒的同伴。他们在生前诱惑他们，现在在永恒中嘲笑他们，甚至辱骂和诅咒至高无上的存在，他们蔑视和轻视他的善良和耐心，但他们无法逃避他的正义和力量。

—The next spiritual pain to which the damned are subjected is the pain of extension. Man, in this earthly life, though he be capable of many evils, is not capable of them all at once, inasmuch as one evil corrects and counteracts another just as one poison frequently corrects another. In hell, on the contrary, one torment, instead of counteracting another, lends it still greater force: and, moreover, as the internal faculties are more perfect than the external senses, so are they more capable of suffering. Just as every sense is afflicted with a fitting torment, so is every spiritual faculty; the fancy with horrible images, the sensitive faculty with alternate longing and rage, the mind and understanding with an interior darkness more terrible even than the exterior darkness which reigns in that dreadful prison. The malice, impotent though it be, which possesses these demon souls is an evil of boundless extension, of limitless duration, a frightful state of wickedness which we can scarcely realize unless we bear in mind the enormity of sin and the hatred God bears to it.
——受诅咒的人遭受的下一个精神痛苦是延伸的痛苦。人在尘世生活中，虽然能够犯下许多邪恶，但他不可能同时犯下所有邪恶，因为一种邪恶会纠正和抵消另一种邪恶，就像一种毒药经常纠正另一种毒药一样。相反，在地狱中，一种折磨不是抵消另一种折磨，而是赋予它更大的力量：此外，由于内部官能比外部感官更完美，因此它们更容易受苦。正如每一种感官都受到适当的折磨一样，每一种精神能力也是如此。对可怕图像的想象，对渴望和愤怒交替出现的敏感能力，对内在黑暗的思想和理解力，甚至比统治那可怕监狱的外在黑暗还要可怕。占据这些恶魔灵魂的恶意虽然无能为力，但它是一种无限延伸、无限持续的邪恶，是一种可怕的邪恶状态，除非我们牢记罪恶的严重性和上帝对它的仇恨，否则我们几乎无法意识到这种邪恶。 。

—Opposed to this pain of extension and yet coexistent with it we have the pain of intensity. Hell is the centre of evils and, as you know, things are more intense at their centres than at their remotest points. There are no contraries or admixtures of any kind to temper or soften in the least the pains of hell. Nay, things which are good in themselves become evil in hell. Company, elsewhere a source of comfort to the afflicted, will be there a continual torment: knowledge, so much longed for as the chief good of the intellect, will there be hated worse than ignorance: light, so much coveted by all creatures from the lord of creation down to the humblest plant in the forest, will be loathed intensely. In this life our sorrows are either not very long or not very great because nature either overcomes them by habits or puts an end to them by sinking under their weight. But in hell the torments cannot be overcome by habit, for while they are of terrible intensity they are at the same time of continual variety, each pain, so to speak, taking fire from another and re-endowing that which has enkindled it with a still fiercer flame. Nor can nature escape from these intense and various tortures by succumbing to them for the soul is sustained and maintained in evil so that its suffering may be the greater. Boundless extension of torment, incredible intensity of suffering, unceasing variety of torture—this is what the divine majesty, so outraged by sinners, demands; this is what the holiness of heaven, slighted and set aside for the lustful and low pleasures of the corrupt flesh, requires; this is what the blood of the innocent Lamb of God, shed for the redemption of sinners, trampled upon by the vilest of the vile, insists upon.
——与这种延伸的痛苦相反，但又与之共存的是强度的痛苦。地狱是邪恶的中心，正如你所知，事情在其中心比在其最远的地方更严重。没有任何相反或混合物可以缓和或软化地狱的痛苦。不仅如此，本来是善的事物在地狱里也会变成恶。陪伴，在其他地方是受苦者的安慰之源，在那里却会是一种持续的折磨：知识，作为智力的主要好处而被人们如此渴望，会比无知更令人憎恨：光明，是所有来自世界的生物都如此渴望的。造物之主，小至森林中最卑微的植物，都会受到强烈的憎恶。在这一生中，我们的悲伤要么不是很长，要么不是很大，因为大自然要么通过习惯克服它们，要么通过在它们的重压下沉沦来结束它们。但在地狱中，这些折磨无法通过习惯来克服，因为虽然它们的强度非常可怕，但它们同时又不断变化，可以说，每种痛苦都从另一种痛苦中汲取火焰，并重新赋予点燃它的火焰。火焰更加猛烈。大自然也无法通过屈服于这些强烈的、各种各样的折磨来逃脱它们，因为灵魂被维持和维持在邪恶中，因此它的痛苦可能更大。无边无际的折磨，令人难以置信的剧烈痛苦，不断变化的折磨——这就是被罪人激怒的神圣威严所要求的；这就是天国的圣洁所要求的，因为天国的圣洁被轻视了，并被放在一边，供腐败肉体的淫荡和低级的快乐所需要。这就是上帝无辜羔羊为救赎被最卑鄙之人践踏的罪人而流下的血所坚持的。

—Last and crowning torture of all the tortures of that awful place is the eternity of hell. Eternity! O, dread and dire word. Eternity! What mind of man can understand it? And remember, it is an eternity of pain. Even though the pains of hell were not so terrible as they are, yet they would become infinite, as they are destined to last for ever. But while they are everlasting they are at the same time, as you know, intolerably intense, unbearably extensive. To bear even the sting of an insect for all eternity would be a dreadful torment. What must it be, then, to bear the manifold tortures of hell for ever? For ever! For all eternity! Not for a year or for an age but for ever. Try to imagine the awful meaning of this. You have often seen the sand on the seashore. How fine are its tiny grains! And how many of those tiny little grains go to make up the small handful which a child grasps in its play. Now imagine a mountain of that sand, a million miles high, reaching from the earth to the farthest heavens, and a million miles broad, extending to remotest space, and a million miles in thickness; and imagine such an enormous mass of countless particles of sand multiplied as often as there are leaves in the forest, drops of water in the mighty ocean, feathers on birds, scales on fish, hairs on animals, atoms in the vast expanse of the air: and imagine that at the end of every million years a little bird came to that mountain and carried away in its beak a tiny grain of that sand. How many millions upon millions of centuries would pass before that bird had carried away even a square foot of that mountain, how many eons upon eons of ages before it had carried away all? Yet at the end of that immense stretch of time not even one instant of eternity could be said to have ended. At the end of all those billions and trillions of years eternity would have scarcely begun. And if that mountain rose again after it had been all carried away, and if the bird came again and carried it all away again grain by grain, and if it so rose and sank as many times as there are stars in the sky, atoms in the air, drops of water in the sea, leaves on the trees, feathers upon birds, scales upon fish, hairs upon animals, at the end of all those innumerable risings and sinkings of that immeasurably vast mountain not one single instant of eternity could be said to have ended; even then, at the end of such a period, after that eon of time the mere thought of which makes our very brain reel dizzily, eternity would scarcely have begun.
——那个可怕地方的所有折磨中最后的、最高的折磨是永恒的地狱。永恒！哦，可怕而可怕的词。永恒！什么样的人的心才能明白呢？请记住，这是永恒的痛苦。地狱的痛苦虽然没有现在那么可怕，但是却会变得无限，注定要永远持续下去。但正如你所知，尽管它们是永恒的，但它们同时也是令人难以忍受的强烈、令人难以忍受的广泛。即使是永远忍受昆虫的叮咬，也是一种可怕的折磨。那么，要永远承受地狱的种种折磨又是什么呢？永远！为了永恒！不是一年或一个时代，而是永远。试着想象一下这有什么可怕的意义。你经常在海边看到沙子。它的颗粒多么细小啊！孩子在玩耍时抓握的一小把，有多少这些微小的颗粒呢？现在想象一座沙山，一百万英里高，从地球延伸到最远的天空，一百万英里宽，延伸到最遥远的太空，一百万英里厚；想象一下由无数沙粒组成的巨大质量，就像森林中的树叶、浩瀚海洋中的水滴、鸟类的羽毛、鱼的鳞片、动物的毛发、广阔的空气中的原子一样频繁地繁殖。 ：想象一下，每百万年结束时，一只小鸟就会飞到那座山上，用它的嘴叼走一粒沙子。要经过多少亿万世纪，那只鸟才能带走那座山的一平方英尺，又要经过多少亿万年，才能带走一切？然而，在那漫长的时间结束时，甚至连永恒的一刹那都不能说是结束了。 在这数十亿、数万亿年结束时，永恒几乎还没有开始。如果那座山在全部被带走之后再次升起，如果那只鸟再次飞来，将所有的东西一粒一粒地再次带走，如果它升起和下沉的次数与天空中的星星一样多，那么空气、海里的水滴、树上的叶子、鸟儿的羽毛、鱼的鳞片、动物的毛，在那座无边无际的大山无数次的起伏之后，没有一个瞬间是永恒的。据说已经结束了；即便如此，在这样一个时期结束时，在那个亿万年之后，只要想到这一点，我们的大脑就会感到头晕目眩，永恒也几乎还没有开始。

—A holy saint (one of our own fathers I believe it was) was once vouchsafed a vision of hell. It seemed to him that he stood in the midst of a great hall, dark and silent save for the ticking of a great clock. The ticking went on unceasingly; and it seemed to this saint that the sound of the ticking was the ceaseless repetition of the words—ever, never; ever, never. Ever to be in hell, never to be in heaven; ever to be shut off from the presence of God, never to enjoy the beatific vision; ever to be eaten with flames, gnawed by vermin, goaded with burning spikes, never to be free from those pains; ever to have the conscience upbraid one, the memory enrage, the mind filled with darkness and despair, never to escape; ever to curse and revile the foul demons who gloat fiendishly over the misery of their dupes, never to behold the shining raiment of the blessed spirits; ever to cry out of the abyss of fire to God for an instant, a single instant, of respite from such awful agony, never to receive, even for an instant, God’s pardon; ever to suffer, never to enjoy; ever to be damned, never to be saved; ever, never; ever, never. O, what a dreadful punishment! An eternity of endless agony, of endless bodily and spiritual torment, without one ray of hope, without one moment of cessation, of agony limitless in intensity, of torment infinitely varied, of torture that sustains eternally that which it eternally devours, of anguish that everlastingly preys upon the spirit while it racks the flesh, an eternity, every instant of which is itself an eternity of woe. Such is the terrible punishment decreed for those who die in mortal sin by an almighty and a just God.
——一位神圣的圣人（我相信是我们自己的父亲之一）曾经被赋予了地狱的幻象。他觉得自己仿佛站在一座大厅的中央，除了大钟的滴答声外，一片漆黑、寂静无声。滴答声持续不断。在这位圣人看来，滴答声似乎是不断重复的词——永远，永远；曾经，从来没有。永远下地狱，永远上不了天堂；永远与神的同在隔绝，永远无法享受幸福的异象；永远被火焰吞噬，被害虫啃咬，被燃烧的尖刺刺痛，永远无法摆脱这些痛苦；良心永远谴责，记忆激怒，心灵充满黑暗和绝望，永远无法逃避；永远咒骂和谩骂那些邪恶的恶魔，他们对自己的受骗者的痛苦幸灾乐祸，却永远看不到受祝福的灵魂的闪亮衣裳；永远从火焰的深渊中向上帝呼喊，片刻，片刻，从如此可怕的痛苦中得到喘息，却永远得不到上帝的赦免，哪怕是片刻；永远受苦，永远享受；永远被诅咒，永远无法得救；曾经，从来没有；曾经，从来没有。啊，这是多么可怕的惩罚啊！无尽的痛苦，无尽的身体和精神折磨，没有一丝希望，没有一刻停止，无限强烈的痛苦，无限变化的折磨，永远维持它永远吞噬的痛苦，永远承受着它永远吞噬的痛苦的永恒。它永远地掠夺着精神，同时折磨着肉体，这是一种永恒，其中的每一刻本身就是永恒的痛苦。这就是全能而公正的上帝对那些死于大罪的人所颁布的可怕惩罚。

—Yes, a just God! Men, reasoning always as men, are astonished that God should mete out an everlasting and infinite punishment in the fires of hell for a single grievous sin. They reason thus because, blinded by the gross illusion of the flesh and the darkness of human understanding, they are unable to comprehend the hideous malice of mortal sin. They reason thus because they are unable to comprehend that even venial sin is of such a foul and hideous nature that even if the omnipotent Creator could end all the evil and misery in the world, the wars, the diseases, the robberies, the crimes, the deaths, the murders, on condition that he allowed a single venial sin to pass unpunished, a single venial sin, a lie, an angry look, a moment of wilful sloth, He, the great omnipotent God could not do so because sin, be it in thought or deed, is a transgression of His law and God would not be God if He did not punish the transgressor.
——是的，一位公正的上帝！人类总是像人类一样思考，他们对上帝竟然因为一个严重的罪而在地狱之火中施以永恒和无限的惩罚感到惊讶。他们之所以如此推理，是因为他们被肉体的严重幻觉和人类理解力的黑暗蒙蔽了双眼，无法理解大罪的可怕恶毒。他们这样推理是因为他们无法理解，即使是小罪也具有如此肮脏和可怕的性质，即使全能的造物主能够结束世界上所有的邪恶和苦难，战争，疾病，抢劫，犯罪，死亡，谋杀，条件是他允许一个小罪不受惩罚，一个小罪，一个谎言，一个愤怒的眼神，一刻的故意懒惰，他，伟大的全能上帝不能这样做，因为罪，无论是在思想上还是在行为上，都是对他律法的违背，如果上帝不惩罚违法者，他就不是上帝了。

—A sin, an instant of rebellious pride of the intellect, made Lucifer and a third part of the cohort of angels fall from their glory. A sin, an instant of folly and weakness, drove Adam and Eve out of Eden and brought death and suffering into the world. To retrieve the consequences of that sin the Only Begotten Son of God came down to earth, lived and suffered and died a most painful death, hanging for three hours on the cross.
——罪孽，智力的反叛骄傲的瞬间，使路西法和三分之一的天使从他们的荣耀中跌落。罪孽，一瞬间的愚蠢和软弱，将亚当和夏娃赶出了伊甸园，给世界带来了死亡和痛苦。为了挽回罪孽的后果，上帝的独生子降临到世上，生活、受苦，最后以最痛苦的方式死去，在十字架上挂了三个小时。

—O, my dear little brethren in Christ Jesus, will we then offend that good Redeemer and provoke His anger? Will we trample again upon that torn and mangled corpse? Will we spit upon that face so full of sorrow and love? Will we too, like the cruel jews and the brutal soldiers, mock that gentle and compassionate Saviour Who trod alone for our sake the awful wine-press of sorrow? Every word of sin is a wound in His tender side. Every sinful act is a thorn piercing His head. Every impure thought, deliberately yielded to, is a keen lance transfixing that sacred and loving heart. No, no. It is impossible for any human being to do that which offends so deeply the divine majesty, that which is punished by an eternity of agony, that which crucifies again the Son of God and makes a mockery of Him.
——哦，我在基督耶稣里亲爱的小弟兄们，我们会冒犯那位良善的救赎主并激起他的愤怒吗？我们会再次践踏那具被撕裂、残破的尸体吗？我们会向那张充满悲伤和爱的脸吐唾沫吗？我们是否也会像残忍的犹太人和残暴的士兵一样，嘲笑这位温柔而富有同情心的救世主，他为了我们而独自踏上了可怕的悲伤酒榨？每一句罪孽的话都是他温柔的一面的伤口。每一个罪恶的行为都是一根刺刺他的头。每一个刻意屈从的不纯洁的思想，都是一把锐利的长矛，刺穿那颗神圣而慈爱的心。不，不。任何人都不可能做出如此严重冒犯神圣威严的事，不可能做出受到永恒痛苦惩罚的事，不可能再次将上帝的儿子钉死在十字架上并嘲笑他的事。

—I pray to God that my poor words may have availed today to confirm in holiness those who are in a state of grace, to strengthen the wavering, to lead back to the state of grace the poor soul that has strayed if any such be among you. I pray to God, and do you pray with me, that we may repent of our sins. I will ask you now, all of you, to repeat after me the act of contrition, kneeling here in this humble chapel in the presence of God. He is there in the tabernacle burning with love for mankind, ready to comfort the afflicted. Be not afraid. No matter how many or how foul the sins if you only repent of them they will be forgiven you. Let no worldly shame hold you back. God is still the merciful Lord who wishes not the eternal death of the sinner but rather that he be converted and live.
——我向上帝祈祷，愿我可怜的话语今天能够使那些处于恩典状态的人坚定圣洁，加强摇摆不定的人，引导那些已经迷失的可怜的灵魂回到恩典状态，如果其中有这样的人的话。你。我向上帝祈祷，你也和我一起祈祷，让我们悔改我们的罪孽。我现在请你们所有人，跟随我重复忏悔的行为，跪在这个简陋的教堂里，在上帝面前。他在会幕中燃烧着对人类的爱，准备安慰受苦的人。不要害怕。无论罪孽有多少，只要你悔改，它们都会被宽恕。不要让世俗的耻辱阻止你。神仍然是仁慈的主，他不希望罪人永远死亡，而是希望他悔改并活下去。

—He calls you to Him. You are His. He made you out of nothing. He loved you as only a God can love. His arms are open to receive you even though you have sinned against Him. Come to Him, poor sinner, poor vain and erring sinner. Now is the acceptable time. Now is the hour.
——他呼唤你到他身边。你是他的。他让你从无到有。他爱你，就像只有上帝才能爱你一样。即使你得罪了他，他仍张开双臂迎接你。可怜的罪人，可怜的虚荣和犯错的罪人，到他这里来吧。现在是可以接受的时间。现在正是时候。

The priest rose and, turning towards the altar, knelt upon the step before the tabernacle in the fallen gloom. He waited till all in the chapel had knelt and every least noise was still. Then, raising his head, he repeated the act of contrition, phrase by phrase, with fervour. The boys answered him phrase by phrase. Stephen, his tongue cleaving to his palate, bowed his head, praying with his heart.
祭司站起身来，转身面向祭坛，在昏暗的会幕前跪在台阶上。他一直等到教堂里的所有人都跪下，一切声音都安静下来。然后，他抬起头，一字一句地重复忏悔的动作。男孩们一字一句地回答他。斯蒂芬的舌头紧贴着上颚，低下头，用心祈祷。

—O my God!—O my God!—I am heartily sorry—I am heartily sorry—for having offended Thee—for having offended Thee—and I detest my sins—and I detest my sins—above every other evil—above every other evil—because they displease Thee, my God—because they displease Thee, my God—Who art so deserving—Who art so deserving—of all my love—of all my love—and I firmly purpose—and I firmly purpose—by Thy holy grace—by Thy holy grace—never more to offend Thee—never more to offend Thee—and to amend my life—and to amend my life—
——我的上帝啊！——我的上帝啊！——我由衷地抱歉——我由衷地抱歉——因为冒犯了你——因为冒犯了你——我厌恶我的罪孽——我厌恶我的罪孽——胜过一切邪恶——胜过一切罪恶。其他邪恶——因为它们令你不悦，我的上帝——因为它们令你不悦，我的上帝——谁值得——谁值得——我所有的爱——我所有的爱——我坚定的目标——我坚定的目标——你神圣的恩典——借你神圣的恩典——不再冒犯你——不再冒犯你——并修正我的生活——修正我的生活——

*****

He went up to his room after dinner in order to be alone with his soul, and at every step his soul seemed to sigh; at every step his soul mounted with his feet, sighing in the ascent, through a region of viscid gloom.
晚饭后，他回到自己的房间，以便与自己的灵魂独处，每走一步，他的灵魂都仿佛在叹息。每走一步，他的灵魂都会随着脚而上升，在上升过程中叹息着，穿过一片粘稠的阴暗区域。

He halted on the landing before the door and then, grasping the porcelain knob, opened the door quickly. He waited in fear, his soul pining within him, praying silently that death might not touch his brow as he passed over the threshold, that the fiends that inhabit darkness might not be given power over him. He waited still at the threshold as at the entrance to some dark cave. Faces were there; eyes: they waited and watched.
他在门前的平台上停了下来，然后握住瓷质把手，快速地打开了门。他在恐惧中等待着，他的灵魂在他体内憔悴，默默地祈祷，当他跨过门槛时，死亡不要触及他的额头，不要让居住在黑暗中的恶魔拥有凌驾于他之上的力量。他一动不动地站在门口，就像在某个黑暗洞穴的入口处一样。那里有面孔；眼睛：他们等待并观看。

—We knew perfectly well of course that though it was bound to come to the light he would find considerable difficulty in endeavouring to try to induce himself to try to endeavour to ascertain the spiritual plenipotentiary and so we knew of course perfectly well—
——我们当然清楚地知道，尽管这件事注定会曝光，但他在试图说服自己努力确定精神全权代表时会发现相当大的困难，所以我们当然完全地知道——

Murmuring faces waited and watched; murmurous voices filled the dark shell of the cave. He feared intensely in spirit and in flesh but, raising his head bravely, he strode into the room firmly. A doorway, a room, the same room, same window. He told himself calmly that those words had absolutely no sense which had seemed to rise murmurously from the dark. He told himself that it was simply his room with the door open.
一张张低语的面孔等待着，注视着；黑暗的洞穴里充满了低语的声音。他精神上和肉体上都感到强烈的恐惧，但还是勇敢地抬起头，坚定地大步走进了房间。一个门口，一个房间，同一个房间，同一个窗户。他平静地告诉自己，这句话毫无意义，仿佛从黑暗中低声升起。他告诉自己，这只是他的房间，门开着。

He closed the door and, walking swiftly to the bed, knelt beside it and covered his face with his hands. His hands were cold and damp and his limbs ached with chill. Bodily unrest and chill and weariness beset him, routing his thoughts. Why was he kneeling there like a child saying his evening prayers? To be alone with his soul, to examine his conscience, to meet his sins face to face, to recall their times and manners and circumstances, to weep over them. He could not weep. He could not summon them to his memory. He felt only an ache of soul and body, his whole being, memory, will, understanding, flesh, benumbed and weary.
他关上门，快步走到床边，跪在床边，双手捂住脸。他的手又冷又湿，四肢冷得发痛。身体的不安、寒冷和疲倦包围着他，扰乱了他的思绪。他为什么像个孩子一样跪在那里做晚祷？与他的灵魂独处，审视他的良心，面对面​​地面对他的罪恶，回忆他们的时代、风俗和处境，并为它们哭泣。他无法哭泣。他无法将它们召唤到他的记忆中。他只感到灵魂和身体的疼痛，他的整个存在、记忆、意志、理解、肉体，麻木而疲倦。

That was the work of devils, to scatter his thoughts and over-cloud his conscience, assailing him at the gates of the cowardly and sin-corrupted flesh: and, praying God timidly to forgive him his weakness, he crawled up on to the bed and, wrapping the blankets closely about him, covered his face again with his hands. He had sinned. He had sinned so deeply against heaven and before God that he was not worthy to be called God’s child.
那是魔鬼的杰作，驱散他的思想，蒙蔽他的良心，在懦弱和被罪恶败坏的肉体的门口攻击他：他胆怯地祈求上帝宽恕他的软弱，然后爬到床上。然后，用毯子紧紧地裹住他，又用手捂住他的脸。他犯了罪。他在天上和上帝面前犯下了如此严重的罪，以至于他不配被称为上帝的孩子。

Could it be that he, Stephen Dedalus, had done those things? His conscience sighed in answer. Yes, he had done them, secretly, filthily, time after time, and, hardened in sinful impenitence, he had dared to wear the mask of holiness before the tabernacle itself while his soul within was a living mass of corruption. How came it that God had not struck him dead? The leprous company of his sins closed about him, breathing upon him, bending over him from all sides. He strove to forget them in an act of prayer, huddling his limbs closer together and binding down his eyelids: but the senses of his soul would not be bound and, though his eyes were shut fast, he saw the places where he had sinned and, though his ears were tightly covered, he heard. He desired with all his will not to hear or see. He desired till his frame shook under the strain of his desire and until the senses of his soul closed. They closed for an instant and then opened. He saw.
这些事情难道是他，史蒂芬·迪达勒斯干的吗？他的良心叹息着回答。是的，他一次又一次地秘密地、肮脏地做了这些事，而且，由于有罪的顽固不化，他敢于在圣幕前戴上圣洁的面具，而他的灵魂里面却是一团活生生的腐败。神怎么没有把他打死呢？他的罪孽的麻风病团团包围了他，向他呼吸，从四面八方压向他。他努力通过祈祷的方式忘记它们，将四肢挤得更紧，并绑住眼睑：但他灵魂的感觉不会被束缚，尽管他的眼睛紧闭，但他看到了自己犯过罪的地方，虽然他的耳朵被紧紧捂住，但他还是听到了。他竭尽全力不想听到或看到。他渴望，直到他的身体在欲望的压力下颤抖，直到他灵魂的感官关闭。它们关闭了片刻，然后又打开了。他看见。

A field of stiff weeds and thistles and tufted nettle-bunches. Thick among the tufts of rank stiff growth lay battered canisters and clots and coils of solid excrement. A faint marshlight struggling upwards from all the ordure through the bristling grey-green weeds. An evil smell, faint and foul as the light, curled upwards sluggishly out of the canisters and from the stale crusted dung.
一片长满了硬杂草、蓟和丛生荨麻束的田野。在一簇簇坚硬的植物中，密密麻麻地躺着破烂的罐子、凝块和一卷卷的固体排泄物。微弱的沼泽光​​从所有的粪便中挣扎着穿过直立的灰绿色杂草。一股邪恶的气味，像光线一样微弱而恶臭，从罐子和陈腐的结痂的粪便中缓慢地向上上升。

Creatures were in the field: one, three, six: creatures were moving in the field, hither and thither. Goatish creatures with human faces, hornybrowed, lightly bearded and grey as india-rubber. The malice of evil glittered in their hard eyes, as they moved hither and thither, trailing their long tails behind them. A rictus of cruel malignity lit up greyly their old bony faces. One was clasping about his ribs a torn flannel waistcoat, another complained monotonously as his beard stuck in the tufted weeds. Soft language issued from their spittleless lips as they swished in slow circles round and round the field, winding hither and thither through the weeds, dragging their long tails amid the rattling canisters. They moved in slow circles, circling closer and closer to enclose, to enclose, soft language issuing from their lips, their long swishing tails besmeared with stale shite, thrusting upwards their terrific faces...
田野里有生物：一、三、六：生物在田野里移动，到处移动。山羊般的生物，有着人脸，角质眉毛，浅胡须，灰色如印度橡胶。当它们拖着长长的尾巴走来走去时，它们冷酷的眼睛里闪烁着邪恶的恶意。他们苍老、骨瘦如柴的脸上浮现出一种残酷的恶毒的表情。一个人用一件破烂的法兰绒背心紧紧地扣在肋骨上，另一个人单调地抱怨着，他的胡子粘在丛生的杂草里。它们在田野上缓慢地转着圈，在杂草丛中蜿蜒，在嘎嘎作响的罐子中拖着长长的尾巴，从它们没有唾沫的嘴唇中发出温柔的语言。它们缓慢地绕圈移动，越圈越近，包围，包围，从它们的嘴唇中发出柔和的语言，它们长长的尾巴上沾满了陈腐的粪便，向上推着它们可怕的脸……

Help!
帮助！

He flung the blankets from him madly to free his face and neck. That was his hell. God had allowed him to see the hell reserved for his sins: stinking, bestial, malignant, a hell of lecherous goatish fiends. For him! For him!
他疯狂地把毯子从身上甩开，让他的脸和脖子自由起来。那是他的地狱。上帝让他看到了为他的罪孽保留的地狱：恶臭、兽性、恶毒、充满好色的山羊恶魔的地狱。为了他！为了他！

He sprang from the bed, the reeking odour pouring down his throat, clogging and revolting his entrails. Air! The air of heaven! He stumbled towards the window, groaning and almost fainting with sickness. At the washstand a convulsion seized him within; and, clasping his cold forehead wildly, he vomited profusely in agony.
他从床上跳了起来，恶臭的气味涌入他的喉咙，堵塞并恶心他的内脏。空气！天上的空气！他跌跌撞撞地走向窗户，呻吟着，几乎要晕倒了。在盥洗台前，他的内心一阵抽搐。他拼命捂住冰冷的额头，痛苦地吐了很多。

When the fit had spent itself he walked weakly to the window and, lifting the sash, sat in a corner of the embrasure and leaned his elbow upon the sill. The rain had drawn off; and amid the moving vapours from point to point of light the city was spinning about herself a soft cocoon of yellowish haze. Heaven was still and faintly luminous and the air sweet to breathe, as in a thicket drenched with showers; and amid peace and shimmering lights and quiet fragrance he made a covenant with his heart.
当痉挛过去后，他虚弱地走到窗前，拉起窗扇，坐在窗台的一角，把胳膊肘靠在窗台上。雨已经停了。在从一个光点移动到另一个光点的蒸汽中，这座城市在自己周围旋转着一层黄色薄雾的柔软茧。天空一片寂静，隐隐有光亮，空气清新，就像在被阵雨淋湿的灌木丛中一样。在宁静、闪烁的灯光和安静的香气中，他与自己的心立下了契约。

He prayed:
他祈祷：

—HE ONCE HAD MEANT TO COME ON EARTH IN HEAVENLY GLORY BUT WE SINNED; AND THEN HE COULD NOT SAFELY VISIT US BUT WITH A SHROUDED MAJESTY AND A BEDIMMED RADIANCE FOR HE WAS GOD. SO HE CAME HIMSELF IN WEAKNESS NOT IN POWER AND HE SENT THEE, A CREATURE IN HIS STEAD, WITH A CREATURES COMELINESS AND LUSTRE SUITED TO OUR STATE. AND NOW THY VERY FACE AND FORM, DEAR MOTHER SPEAK TO US OF THE ETERNAL NOT LIKE EARTHLY BEAUTY, DANGEROUS TO LOOK UPON, BUT LIKE THE MORNING STAR WHICH IS THY EMBLEM, BRIGHT AND MUSICAL, BREATHING PURITY, TELLING OF HEAVEN AND INFUSING PEACE. O HARBINGER OF DAY! O LIGHT OF THE PILGRIM! LEAD US STILL AS THOU HAST LED. IN THE DARK NIGHT, ACROSS THE BLEAK WILDERNESS GUIDE US ON TO OUR LORD JESUS, GUIDE US HOME.
——他曾经想带着天国的荣耀来到地球，但我们犯了罪；然后他就不能安全地拜访我们，而是带着一种笼罩的威严和昏暗的光芒，因为他是上帝。因此，他以软弱无能的状态来到这里，并派了你这个生物来代替他，你是一个美丽而光彩的生物，适合我们的国家。现在，亲爱的母亲，您的面容和形体向我们诉说着永恒，不像尘世之美，看起来很危险，而是像晨星一样，这是您的象征，明亮而富有音乐性，呼吸着纯洁，诉说着天堂并注入了和平。噢，黎明的预兆！哦，朝圣者之光！一如既往地带领我们。在漆黑的夜晚，穿过荒凉的旷野，引导我们到我们的主耶稣那里，引导我们回家。

His eyes were dimmed with tears and, looking humbly up to heaven, he wept for the innocence he had lost.
他的眼睛因泪水而变得模糊，他谦卑地仰望天空，为自己失去的纯真而哭泣。

When evening had fallen he left the house, and the first touch of the damp dark air and the noise of the door as it closed behind him made ache again his conscience, lulled by prayer and tears. Confess! Confess! It was not enough to lull the conscience with a tear and a prayer. He had to kneel before the minister of the Holy Ghost and tell over his hidden sins truly and repentantly. Before he heard again the footboard of the housedoor trail over the threshold as it opened to let him in, before he saw again the table in the kitchen set for supper he would have knelt and confessed. It was quite simple.
夜幕降临时，他离开了家，第一次接触到潮湿黑暗的空气，以及门在他身后关上时发出的声音，让他的良心再次感到疼痛，祈祷和泪水使他平静下来。承认！承认！仅靠眼泪和祈祷来安抚良心是不够的。他必须跪在圣灵的使者面前，真实悔改地诉说他隐藏的罪孽。在他再次听到房门打开让他进去的门槛踏过门槛的声音之前，在他再次看到厨房里摆好晚饭的桌子之前，他会跪下承认。这很简单。

The ache of conscience ceased and he walked onward swiftly through the dark streets. There were so many flagstones on the footpath of that street and so many streets in that city and so many cities in the world. Yet eternity had no end. He was in mortal sin. Even once was a mortal sin. It could happen in an instant. But how so quickly? By seeing or by thinking of seeing. The eyes see the thing, without having wished first to see. Then in an instant it happens. But does that part of the body understand or what? The serpent, the most subtle beast of the field. It must understand when it desires in one instant and then prolongs its own desire instant after instant, sinfully. It feels and understands and desires. What a horrible thing! Who made it to be like that, a bestial part of the body able to understand bestially and desire bestially? Was that then he or an inhuman thing moved by a lower soul? His soul sickened at the thought of a torpid snaky life feeding itself out of the tender marrow of his life and fattening upon the slime of lust. O why was that so? O why?
良心的疼痛消失了，他快步穿过黑暗的街道。那条街的人行道上有那么多的石板，那座城市有那么多的街道，世界上有那么多的城市。然而永恒没有尽头。他犯了大罪。即使一次也是死罪。它可能在一瞬间发生。但怎么这么快呢？通过看到或通过思考看到。眼睛看到事物，并不希望首先看到。然后就在一瞬间它就发生了。但身体的那部分能理解吗？蛇，野外最狡猾的野兽。它必须明白什么时候它在一瞬间产生欲望，然后又一瞬间又一瞬间地延长自己的欲望，这是有罪的。它感受、理解和渴望。这是多么可怕的事情啊！谁让它成为这样一个兽性的身体部分，能够兽性地理解、兽性地渴望？那是他还是一个被低等灵魂感动的非人之物？一想到一条麻木的蛇类生命从他生命的柔嫩骨髓中汲取营养，并在欲望的粘液中肥肥，他的灵魂就感到恶心。噢，为什么会这样呢？噢，为什么？

He cowered in the shadow of the thought, abasing himself in the awe of God Who had made all things and all men. Madness. Who could think such a thought? And, cowering in darkness and abject, he prayed mutely to his guardian angel to drive away with his sword the demon that was whispering to his brain.
他畏缩在这个想法的阴影中，对创造万物和人类的上帝感到敬畏。疯狂。谁能想到这样的想法？然后，他蜷缩在黑暗和卑微中，默默地向他的守护天使祈祷，用他的剑驱走在他大脑中低语的恶魔。

The whisper ceased and he knew then clearly that his own soul had sinned in thought and word and deed wilfully through his own body. Confess! He had to confess every sin. How could he utter in words to the priest what he had done? Must, must. Or how could he explain without dying of shame? Or how could he have done such things without shame? A madman! Confess! O he would indeed to be free and sinless again! Perhaps the priest would know. O dear God!
耳语停止了，他清楚地知道自己的灵魂已经通过自己的身体故意在思想、言语和行为上犯了罪。承认！他必须承认每一个罪过。他怎么能用语言向神父说出他所做的事呢？必须，必须。或者说他该如何解释才不会羞死呢？或者说，他怎么可能做出这样的事而不感到羞耻？一个疯子！承认！哦，他确实希望再次获得自由和无罪！也许牧师会知道。亲爱的上帝啊！

He walked on and on through ill-lit streets, fearing to stand still for a moment lest it might seem that he held back from what awaited him, fearing to arrive at that towards which he still turned with longing. How beautiful must be a soul in the state of grace when God looked upon it with love!
他在灯光昏暗的街道上走来走去，一刻都不敢站着，以免让人觉得他对等待着他的事情有所退缩，害怕到达他仍然渴望的地方。当神以慈爱的眼光看待一个处于恩典状态的灵魂时，该是多么美丽啊！

Frowsy girls sat along the curbstones before their baskets. Their dank hair hung trailed over their brows. They were not beautiful to see as they crouched in the mire. But their souls were seen by God; and if their souls were in a state of grace they were radiant to see: and God loved them, seeing them.
闷闷不乐的女孩们坐在篮子前的路边石上。他们潮湿的头发垂在眉毛上。当他们蹲在泥沼里时，他们的样子并不好看。但他们的灵魂被上帝看见了；如果他们的灵魂处于恩典状态，他们就会容光焕发：上帝看到他们就爱他们。

A wasting breath of humiliation blew bleakly over his soul to think of how he had fallen, to feel that those souls were dearer to God than his. The wind blew over him and passed on to the myriads and myriads of other souls on whom God’s favour shone now more and now less, stars now brighter and now dimmer sustained and failing. And the glimmering souls passed away, sustained and failing, merged in a moving breath. One soul was lost; a tiny soul: his. It flickered once and went out, forgotten, lost. The end: black, cold, void waste.
一想到自己是如何堕落的，想到那些灵魂对上帝来说比他的灵魂更珍贵，一股羞辱的气息在他的灵魂中黯淡地吹过。风吹过他，传递到无数其他灵魂，上帝的恩惠时而多时而少，星星时而明亮，时而暗淡，持续或衰落。那些闪烁着光芒的灵魂消逝了，持续着，衰落着，融入了动人的气息中。一个灵魂迷失了；一个小小的灵魂：他的。它闪烁了一次，然后就消失了，被遗忘了，迷失了。结局：黑色、寒冷、虚空废物。

Consciousness of place came ebbing back to him slowly over a vast tract of time unlit, unfelt, unlived. The squalid scene composed itself around him; the common accents, the burning gas-jets in the shops, odours of fish and spirits and wet sawdust, moving men and women. An old woman was about to cross the street, an oilcan in her hand. He bent down and asked her was there a chapel near.
在一段没有光亮、没有感觉、没有生命的时间里，他对地方的意识慢慢地消退。他周围一片肮脏的景象。常见的口音、商店里燃烧的煤气灯、鱼、烈酒和湿木屑的气味，让男男女女感动不已。一位老妇人手里拿着一个油罐正要过马路。他弯下腰​​问她附近有没有教堂。

—A chapel, sir? Yes, sir. Church Street chapel.
——小教堂，先生？是的先生。教堂街的教堂。

—Church?
-教会？

She shifted the can to her other hand and directed him; and, as she held out her reeking withered right hand under its fringe of shawl, he bent lower towards her, saddened and soothed by her voice.
她把罐子移到另一只手上，指挥他。当她在披肩的边缘下伸出那只散发着恶臭、枯萎的右手时，他向她弯下腰，她的声音既悲伤又安抚。

—Thank you.
-谢谢。

—You are quite welcome, sir.
——不客气，先生。

The candles on the high altar had been extinguished but the fragrance of incense still floated down the dim nave. Bearded workmen with pious faces were guiding a canopy out through a side door, the sacristan aiding them with quiet gestures and words. A few of the faithful still lingered praying before one of the side-altars or kneeling in the benches near the confessionals. He approached timidly and knelt at the last bench in the body, thankful for the peace and silence and fragrant shadow of the church. The board on which he knelt was narrow and worn and those who knelt near him were humble followers of Jesus. Jesus too had been born in poverty and had worked in the shop of a carpenter, cutting boards and planing them, and had first spoken of the kingdom of God to poor fishermen, teaching all men to be meek and humble of heart.
高坛上的蜡烛已经熄灭，但昏暗的中殿里仍然飘荡着焚香的香气。满脸虔诚、留着胡须的工人正把天篷从侧门引出来，圣器管理员用安静的手势和言语帮助他们。一些信徒仍然在一侧的祭坛前徘徊祈祷，或者跪在忏悔室附近的长凳上。他胆怯地走近，跪在尸体最后一张长凳上，感谢教堂的安宁与寂静和芬芳的影子。他跪下的木板又窄又破，跪在他附近的人都是耶稣的卑微追随者。耶稣也出生在贫困中，曾在木匠店工作，切割木板并刨平木板，并首先向贫穷的渔民讲述上帝的国度，​​教导所有人要内心温柔和谦卑。

He bowed his head upon his hands, bidding his heart be meek and humble that he might be like those who knelt beside him and his prayer as acceptable as theirs. He prayed beside them but it was hard. His soul was foul with sin and he dared not ask forgiveness with the simple trust of those whom Jesus, in the mysterious ways of God, had called first to His side, the carpenters, the fishermen, poor and simple people following a lowly trade, handling and shaping the wood of trees, mending their nets with patience.
他低下头，双手撑地，嘱咐自己的心要温柔谦卑，这样他就可以像那些跪在他身边的人一样，让他的祈祷像他们的祈祷一样被接受。他在他们旁边祈祷，但这很难。他的灵魂被罪孽玷污了，他不敢单纯地相信那些耶稣以上帝神秘的方式首先召唤到他身边的人，木匠，渔夫，从事卑微行业的贫穷而简单的人，以简单的信任请求宽恕，处理和塑造树木的木材，耐心地修补它们的网。

A tall figure came down the aisle and the penitents stirred; and at the last moment, glancing up swiftly, he saw a long grey beard and the brown habit of a capuchin. The priest entered the box and was hidden. Two penitents rose and entered the confessional at either side. The wooden slide was drawn back and the faint murmur of a voice troubled the silence.
一个高大的身影从过道上走下来，忏悔者们骚动起来。在最后一刻，他迅速抬起头，看到了长长的灰色胡须和卷尾猴的棕色习惯。牧师进入了盒子并被隐藏起来。两个忏悔者起身，走进两侧的忏悔室。木制滑梯被拉开，微弱的低语声打破了寂静。

His blood began to murmur in his veins, murmuring like a sinful city summoned from its sleep to hear its doom. Little flakes of fire fell and powdery ashes fell softly, alighting on the houses of men. They stirred, waking from sleep, troubled by the heated air.
他的血液开始在血管里低语，就像一座罪恶之城从沉睡中被召唤来聆听它的末日一样。小片的火花落下，粉状的灰烬轻轻落下，落在人们的房屋上。他们从睡梦中醒来，被炎热的空气困扰。

The slide was shot back. The penitent emerged from the side of the box. The farther side was drawn. A woman entered quietly and deftly where the first penitent had knelt. The faint murmur began again.
幻灯片被击退。忏悔者从盒子的一侧出现。较远的一侧被绘制。一个女人安静而熟练地走进第一个忏悔者跪下的地方。微弱的低语声又开始了。

He could still leave the chapel. He could stand up, put one foot before the other and walk out softly and then run, run, run swiftly through the dark streets. He could still escape from the shame. Had it been any terrible crime but that one sin! Had it been murder! Little fiery flakes fell and touched him at all points, shameful thoughts, shameful words, shameful acts. Shame covered him wholly like fine glowing ashes falling continually. To say it in words! His soul, stifling and helpless, would cease to be.
他仍然可以离开教堂。他可以站起来，把一只脚放在另一只脚前面，轻轻地走出去，然后跑啊跑啊，飞快地跑过黑暗的街道。他仍然可以摆脱耻辱。除了这一罪孽之外，还有什么可怕的罪行吗？如果是谋杀的话！火热的小片落下，触动了他的各个部位，可耻的想法，可耻的言语，可耻的行为。羞耻感将他全身笼罩，就像细小的发光灰烬不断落下。用言语来说吧！他的灵魂，压抑而无助，将不再存在。

The slide was shot back. A penitent emerged from the farther side of the box. The near slide was drawn. A penitent entered where the other penitent had come out. A soft whispering noise floated in vaporous cloudlets out of the box. It was the woman: soft whispering cloudlets, soft whispering vapour, whispering and vanishing.
幻灯片被击退。一个忏悔者从盒子的另一边出现。绘制了近侧幻灯片。一个悔罪者进入了另一个悔罪者出来的地方。盒子里飘出一阵轻柔的低语声，如同雾气般的云朵。那是女人：轻柔低语的云朵，轻柔低语的蒸气，低语着又消失。

He beat his breast with his fist humbly, secretly under cover of the wooden armrest. He would be at one with others and with God. He would love his neighbour. He would love God who had made and loved him. He would kneel and pray with others and be happy. God would look down on him and on them and would love them all.
他在木扶手的掩护下，偷偷地用拳头捶着胸口。他会与他人、与上帝合而为一。他会爱他的邻居。他会爱创造并爱他的上帝。他会和其他人一起跪下祈祷，并且很高兴。上帝会看不起他和他们，但会爱他们所有人。

It was easy to be good. God’s yoke was sweet and light. It was better never to have sinned, to have remained always a child, for God loved little children and suffered them to come to Him. It was a terrible and a sad thing to sin. But God was merciful to poor sinners who were truly sorry. How true that was! That was indeed goodness.
做好人很容易。神的轭是甜蜜而轻的。最好永远不要犯罪，永远是个孩子，因为上帝爱小孩子，并允许他们来到他身边。犯罪是一件可怕而悲伤的事情。但上帝对那些真正感到抱歉的可怜罪人是仁慈的。那是多么真实啊！这确实是好事。

The slide was shot to suddenly. The penitent came out. He was next. He stood up in terror and walked blindly into the box.
幻灯片突然被击中。忏悔者出来了。他是下一个。他惊恐地站了起来，盲目地走进了包厢。

At last it had come. He knelt in the silent gloom and raised his eyes to the white crucifix suspended above him. God could see that he was sorry. He would tell all his sins. His confession would be long, long. Everybody in the chapel would know then what a sinner he had been. Let them know. It was true. But God had promised to forgive him if he was sorry. He was sorry. He clasped his hands and raised them towards the white form, praying with his darkened eyes, praying with all his trembling body, swaying his head to and fro like a lost creature, praying with whimpering lips.
它终于来了。他在寂静的阴暗中跪下，抬起眼睛看着悬挂在他上方的白色十字架。上帝看得出他很抱歉。他会说出他所有的罪孽。他的忏悔会很长很长。那时教堂里的每个人都会知道他是一个多么大的罪人。让他们知道。这是真的。但上帝答应如果他感到抱歉，他就会原谅他。他很抱歉。他双手合十，举向白色的身影，用漆黑的眼睛祈祷，用颤抖的身体祈祷，像迷失的生物一样来回摇晃他的头，用呜咽的嘴唇祈祷。

—Sorry! Sorry! O sorry!
-对不起！对不起！哦，对不起！

The slide clicked back and his heart bounded in his breast. The face of an old priest was at the grating, averted from him, leaning upon a hand. He made the sign of the cross and prayed of the priest to bless him for he had sinned. Then, bowing his head, he repeated the CONFITEOR in fright. At the words MY MOST GRIEVOUS FAULT he ceased, breathless.
幻灯片咔哒一声向后退，他的心在胸中跳动。一位老牧师的脸正对着栅栏，背对着他，靠在一只手上。他画了十字，并祈求神父保佑他，因为他犯了罪。然后，他低下头，惊恐地重复着那句话。听到“我最严重的过错”这几个字，他停了下来，气喘吁吁。

—How long is it since your last confession, my child?
——孩子，距离你上次告白已经过去多久了？

—A long time, father.
——好久不见，父亲。

—A month, my child?
——一个月，我的孩子？

—Longer, father.
——再长一点，父亲。

—Three months, my child?
——三个月，我的孩子？

—Longer, father.
——再长一点，父亲。

—Six months?
-六个月？

—Eight months, father.
——八个月了，父亲。

He had begun. The priest asked:
他已经开始了。牧师问道：

—And what do you remember since that time?
——从那时起你还记得什么？

He began to confess his sins: masses missed, prayers not said, lies.
他开始承认自己的罪孽：错过了弥撒，没有祈祷，撒谎。

—Anything else, my child?
——还有什么吗，我的孩子？

Sins of anger, envy of others, gluttony, vanity, disobedience.
愤怒、嫉妒他人、暴食、虚荣、不服从等罪。

—Anything else, my child?
——还有什么吗，我的孩子？

There was no help. He murmured:
没有任何帮助。他低声说道：

—I... committed sins of impurity, father.
——我……犯下了不洁之罪，父亲。

The priest did not turn his head.
神父没有回头。

—With yourself, my child?
——我的孩子，你自己吗？

—And... with others.
——还有……和其他人。

—With women, my child?
——和女人在一起吗，我的孩子？

—Yes, father.
——是的，父亲。

—Were they married women, my child?
——我的孩子，她们是已婚妇女吗？

He did not know. His sins trickled from his lips, one by one, trickled in shameful drops from his soul, festering and oozing like a sore, a squalid stream of vice. The last sins oozed forth, sluggish, filthy. There was no more to tell. He bowed his head, overcome.
他不知道。他的罪孽从他的嘴唇里一一滴落，从他的灵魂中以可耻的滴落方式滴落，溃烂、渗出，像疮口一样，肮脏的恶习。最后的罪孽渗出，缓慢而肮脏。没有更多可说的了。他低下头，克服了。

The Priest was silent. Then he asked:
神父沉默了。然后他问道：

—How old are you, my child?
——我的孩子，你多大了？

—Sixteen, father.
——十六岁，父亲。

The priest passed his hand several times over his face. Then, resting his forehead against his hand, he leaned towards the grating and, with eyes still averted, spoke slowly. His voice was weary and old.
神父用手在脸上擦了好几次。然后，他用手抵着额头，靠向栅栏，眼睛仍然别开，慢慢地说话。他的声音疲惫而苍老。

—You are very young, my child, he said, and let me implore of you to give up that sin. It is a terrible sin. It kills the body and it kills the soul. It is the cause of many crimes and misfortunes. Give it up, my child, for God’s sake. It is dishonourable and unmanly. You cannot know where that wretched habit will lead you or where it will come against you. As long as you commit that sin, my poor child, you will never be worth one farthing to God. Pray to our mother Mary to help you. She will help you, my child. Pray to Our Blessed Lady when that sin comes into your mind. I am sure you will do that, will you not? You repent of all those sins. I am sure you do. And you will promise God now that by His holy grace you will never offend Him any more by that wicked sin. You will make that solemn promise to God, will you not?
——你还很小，我的孩子，他说，让我恳求你放弃这个罪恶。这是一种可怕的罪恶。它杀死身体，也杀死灵魂。这是许多犯罪和不幸的原因。看在上帝的份上，放弃吧，我的孩子。这是不光彩和没有男子气概的。你不知道那个可恶的习惯会把你引向何方，或者它会在哪里对你不利。我可怜的孩子，只要你犯了这个罪，你在上帝面前就永远不值一文钱。祈求我们的母亲玛丽帮助你。她会帮助你，我的孩子。当这种罪孽出现在你的脑海中时，请向圣母祈祷。我确信你会这么做，不是吗？你为所有这些罪悔改。我相信你会的。现在你要向上帝保证，靠着他神圣的恩典，你再也不会因为那邪恶的罪而冒犯他了。你会向上帝做出庄严的承诺，不是吗？

—Yes, father.
——是的，父亲。

The old and weary voice fell like sweet rain upon his quaking parching heart. How sweet and sad!
苍老而疲惫的声音如甘雨般落在他颤抖着的干渴的心上。多么甜蜜又悲伤啊！

—Do so my poor child. The devil has led you astray. Drive him back to hell when he tempts you to dishonour your body in that way—the foul spirit who hates our Lord. Promise God now that you will give up that sin, that wretched wretched sin.
——就这样做吧，我可怜的孩子。魔鬼已经把你引入歧途了。当他引诱你以这种方式羞辱你的身体时，把他赶回地狱——憎恨我们的主的污鬼。现在就向上帝保证你会放弃那个罪，那个可怜的罪。

Blinded by his tears and by the light of God’s mercifulness he bent his head and heard the grave words of absolution spoken and saw the priest’s hand raised above him in token of forgiveness.
他被泪水和上帝仁慈的光芒所蒙蔽，低下了头，听到了严肃的赦免话语，看到牧师的手举在他上方，表示宽恕。

—God bless you, my child. Pray for me.
——上帝保佑你，我的孩子。为我祈祷。

He knelt to say his penance, praying in a corner of the dark nave; and his prayers ascended to heaven from his purified heart like perfume streaming upwards from a heart of white rose.
他跪下忏悔，在黑暗中殿的一角祈祷。他的祈祷从他纯洁的心中升上天堂，就像香水从白玫瑰的心向上流淌一样。

The muddy streets were gay. He strode homeward, conscious of an invisible grace pervading and making light his limbs. In spite of all he had done it. He had confessed and God had pardoned him. His soul was made fair and holy once more, holy and happy.
泥泞的街道很欢乐。他大步走回家，意识到一种无形的优雅弥漫在他的四肢上。不管怎样，他已经做到了。他已经认罪了，上帝也赦免了他。他的灵魂再次变得公平、圣洁、圣洁、幸福。

It would be beautiful to die if God so willed. It was beautiful to live in grace a life of peace and virtue and forbearance with others.
如果上帝愿意的话，死是一件很美好的事。在恩典中过一种和平、美德、与他人宽容的生活是美好的。

He sat by the fire in the kitchen, not daring to speak for happiness. Till that moment he had not known how beautiful and peaceful life could be. The green square of paper pinned round the lamp cast down a tender shade. On the dresser was a plate of sausages and white pudding and on the shelf there were eggs. They would be for the breakfast in the morning after the communion in the college chapel. White pudding and eggs and sausages and cups of tea. How simple and beautiful was life after all! And life lay all before him.
他坐在厨房的火边，不敢说出幸福的话。直到那一刻，他还不知道生活是多么美好和平静。钉在灯周围的绿色方形纸投射出柔和的阴影。梳妆台上有一盘香肠和白布丁，架子上有鸡蛋。他们将在大学教堂举行圣餐后吃早餐。白布丁、鸡蛋、香肠和茶。生活本来是多么简单而美好啊！生活就在他面前。

In a dream he fell asleep. In a dream he rose and saw that it was morning. In a waking dream he went through the quiet morning towards the college.
在梦中他睡着了。他在梦中站起来，发现已经是早晨了。在醒着的梦中，他度过了安静的早晨，走向学院。

The boys were all there, kneeling in their places. He knelt among them, happy and shy. The altar was heaped with fragrant masses of white flowers; and in the morning light the pale flames of the candles among the white flowers were clear and silent as his own soul.
男孩们都在那里，跪在自己的位置上。他跪在他们中间，既高兴又害羞。祭坛上堆满了芬芳的白花；晨光中，白花间蜡烛的淡色火焰如同他自己的灵魂一样清澈而寂静。

He knelt before the altar with his classmates, holding the altar cloth with them over a living rail of hands. His hands were trembling and his soul trembled as he heard the priest pass with the ciborium from communicant to communicant.
他和同学们一起跪在祭坛前，用一只活生生的手举着祭坛布。当他听到牧师拿着圣物从一个圣餐者传到另一个圣餐者时，他的手在颤抖，他的灵魂也在颤抖。

—CORPUS DOMINI NOSTRI.
——科普斯·多米尼·诺斯特里。

Could it be? He knelt there sinless and timid; and he would hold upon his tongue the host and God would enter his purified body.
可能是吗？他跪在那里，无罪又胆怯；他会用舌头握住宿主，上帝就会进入他净化的身体。

—IN VITAM ETERNAM. AMEN.
——在永恒的越南。阿门。

Another life! A life of grace and virtue and happiness! It was true. It was not a dream from which he would wake. The past was past.
另一种生活！恩典、美德和幸福的生活！这是真的。这不是一个他会醒来的梦。过去的已经过去了。

—CORPUS DOMINI NOSTRI.
——科普斯·多米尼·诺斯特里。

The ciborium had come to him.
钱币已经到了他的面前。

Chapter 4
第4章

Sunday was dedicated to the mystery of the Holy Trinity, Monday to the Holy Ghost, Tuesday to the Guardian Angels, Wednesday to saint Joseph, Thursday to the Most Blessed Sacrament of the Altar, Friday to the Suffering Jesus, Saturday to the Blessed Virgin Mary.
周日献给三位一体的奥秘，周一献给圣灵，周二献给守护天使，周三献给圣约瑟夫，周四献给祭坛最受祝福的圣礼，周五献给受难的耶稣，周六献给圣母玛利亚。

Every morning he hallowed himself anew in the presence of some holy image or mystery. His day began with an heroic offering of its every moment of thought or action for the intentions of the sovereign pontiff and with an early mass. The raw morning air whetted his resolute piety; and often as he knelt among the few worshippers at the side-altar, following with his interleaved prayer-book the murmur of the priest, he glanced up for an instant towards the vested figure standing in the gloom between the two candles, which were the old and the new testaments, and imagined that he was kneeling at mass in the catacombs.
每天早晨，他都会在某个圣像或神秘事物面前重新尊崇自己。他的一天以英雄般的方式开始，他为最高教皇的意图而英勇地奉献了每时每刻的思想或行动，并进行了早期的弥撒。清晨清新的空气激发了他坚定的虔诚。当他跪在侧祭坛前的少数崇拜者中间，伴随着牧师的低语声时，他会抬起头，瞥一眼站在两根蜡烛之间的昏暗中的穿着背心的人物，那是旧约和新约，并想象他在地下墓穴里跪着做弥撒。

His daily life was laid out in devotional areas. By means of ejaculations and prayers he stored up ungrudgingly for the souls in purgatory centuries of days and quarantines and years; yet the spiritual triumph which he felt in achieving with ease so many fabulous ages of canonical penances did not wholly reward his zeal of prayer, since he could never know how much temporal punishment he had remitted by way of suffrage for the agonizing souls; and fearful lest in the midst of the purgatorial fire, which differed from the infernal only in that it was not everlasting, his penance might avail no more than a drop of moisture, he drove his soul daily through an increasing circle of works of supererogation.
他的日常生活都安排在灵修领域。通过射精和祈祷，他毫不吝惜地为灵魂在炼狱中储存了几个世纪的日子、隔离和岁月。然而，他轻松地实现了这么多神话般的经典苦修的时代所感受到的精神胜利并没有完全奖励他的祈祷热情，因为他永远不知道他通过选举权为痛苦的灵魂免除了多少世俗的惩罚；他担心在炼狱之火中——炼狱之火与地狱之火的不同之处在于它不是永恒的——他的苦行只不过是一滴湿气，所以他每天驱使自己的灵魂进行越来越多的超级劳作。

Every part of his day, divided by what he regarded now as the duties of his station in life, circled about its own centre of spiritual energy. His life seemed to have drawn near to eternity; every thought, word, and deed, every instance of consciousness could be made to revibrate radiantly in heaven; and at times his sense of such immediate repercussion was so lively that he seemed to feel his soul in devotion pressing like fingers the keyboard of a great cash register and to see the amount of his purchase start forth immediately in heaven, not as a number but as a frail column of incense or as a slender flower.
他一天中的每一部分，都被他现在认为是他人生地位的职责所划分，都围绕着自己的精神能量中心旋转。他的生命似乎已接近永恒。每一个思想、言语、行为、意识的每一个实例都可以在天堂中焕发光芒；有时，他对这种直接影响的感觉如此强烈，以至于他似乎感觉到自己的灵魂像手指一样虔诚地按着一台大收银机的键盘，看到他购买的金额立即在天堂中开始出现，不是一个数字，而是一个数字。如一根脆弱的香柱或一朵纤细的花朵。

The rosaries, too, which he said constantly—for he carried his beads loose in his trousers’ pockets that he might tell them as he walked the streets—transformed themselves into coronals of flowers of such vague unearthly texture that they seemed to him as hueless and odourless as they were nameless. He offered up each of his three daily chaplets that his soul might grow strong in each of the three theological virtues, in faith in the Father Who had created him, in hope in the Son Who had redeemed him and in love of the Holy Ghost Who had sanctified him; and this thrice triple prayer he offered to the Three Persons through Mary in the name of her joyful and sorrowful and glorious mysteries.
他经常念叨的念珠——因为他把念珠松散地放在裤子口袋里，以便他在街上行走时可以告诉它们——也变成了花朵的花冠，质地如此模糊，在他看来，它们似乎是无色的。没有气味，就像它们无名一样。他每天献上三首串经，以便他的灵魂在三种神学美德中变得坚强，对创造他的父亲的信仰，对救赎他的儿子的希望，以及对圣灵的爱。使他成圣；他以玛利亚喜乐、悲伤和荣耀奥迹的名义，通过玛利亚向三人献上这三次三重祈祷。

On each of the seven days of the week he further prayed that one of the seven gifts of the Holy Ghost might descend upon his soul and drive out of it day by day the seven deadly sins which had defiled it in the past; and he prayed for each gift on its appointed day, confident that it would descend upon him, though it seemed strange to him at times that wisdom and understanding and knowledge were so distinct in their nature that each should be prayed for apart from the others. Yet he believed that at some future stage of his spiritual progress this difficulty would be removed when his sinful soul had been raised up from its weakness and enlightened by the Third Person of the Most Blessed Trinity. He believed this all the more, and with trepidation, because of the divine gloom and silence wherein dwelt the unseen Paraclete, Whose symbols were a dove and a mighty wind, to sin against Whom was a sin beyond forgiveness, the eternal mysterious secret Being to Whom, as God, the priests offered up mass once a year, robed in the scarlet of the tongues of fire.
在一周的七天中，他进一步祈祷圣灵七件恩赐中的一件能降临在他的灵魂上，逐日驱除过去玷污他的七大罪；他在指定的日子为每件礼物祈祷，相信它会降临在他身上，尽管有时他觉得很奇怪，智慧、理解力和知识在本质上是如此不同，以至于每个人都应该单独祈祷。然而他相信，在他灵性进步的未来某个阶段，当他有罪的灵魂从软弱中复活并被最受祝福的三位一体的第三位启发时，这个困难就会被消除。他更加相信这一点，并且感到惶恐不安，因为看不见的护慰者居住在神圣的阴暗和寂静中，他的象征是一只鸽子和一阵强大的风，对他犯下的罪是一种无法宽恕的罪，永恒的神秘秘密是作为上帝，祭司们每年一次为他举行弥撒，身着火舌的猩红色长袍。

The imagery through which the nature and kinship of the Three Persons of the Trinity were darkly shadowed forth in the books of devotion which he read—the Father contemplating from all eternity as in a mirror His Divine Perfections and thereby begetting eternally the Eternal Son and the Holy Spirit proceeding out of Father and Son from all eternity—were easier of acceptance by his mind by reason of their august incomprehensibility than was the simple fact that God had loved his soul from all eternity, for ages before he had been born into the world, for ages before the world itself had existed.
三位一体的三个位格的本性和亲缘关系通过这些意象在他所读的灵修书籍中被暗暗地描绘出来——天父像在镜子中一样从永恒中沉思着他的神圣完美，从而永恒地产生了永恒的儿子和上帝。圣灵从永恒的圣父和圣子中发出——比上帝从永恒以来、在他出生到世上之前的许多年里就爱他的灵魂这一简单事实更容易被他的思想所接受，因为它们令人敬畏的难以理解。 ，早在世界本身存在之前的许多年。

He had heard the names of the passions of love and hate pronounced solemnly on the stage and in the pulpit, had found them set forth solemnly in books and had wondered why his soul was unable to harbour them for any time or to force his lips to utter their names with conviction. A brief anger had often invested him but he had never been able to make it an abiding passion and had always felt himself passing out of it as if his very body were being divested with ease of some outer skin or peel. He had felt a subtle, dark, and murmurous presence penetrate his being and fire him with a brief iniquitous lust: it, too, had slipped beyond his grasp leaving his mind lucid and indifferent. This, it seemed, was the only love and that the only hate his soul would harbour.
他听过在舞台上和讲坛上庄严宣讲的爱与恨激情的名字，在书本上发现它们庄严地阐述过，他想知道为什么他的灵魂无法暂时容纳它们，也无法强迫他的嘴唇说出它们。坚定地说出他们的名字。他时常会感到一阵短暂的愤怒，但他始终无法将其变成一种持久的激情，而且总是感觉自己正在从愤怒中消失，就好像他的身体正在被轻易地剥去一些外皮或果皮一样。他感觉到一种微妙的、黑暗的、低语的存在穿透了他的存在，并用短暂的邪恶欲望点燃了他：它也已经脱离了他的掌控，让他的头脑清醒而冷漠。这似乎是他灵魂中唯一的爱，也是唯一的恨。

But he could no longer disbelieve in the reality of love, since God Himself had loved his individual soul with divine love from all eternity. Gradually, as his soul was enriched with spiritual knowledge, he saw the whole world forming one vast symmetrical expression of God’s power and love. Life became a divine gift for every moment and sensation of which, were it even the sight of a single leaf hanging on the twig of a tree, his soul should praise and thank the Giver. The world for all its solid substance and complexity no longer existed for his soul save as a theorem of divine power and love and universality. So entire and unquestionable was this sense of the divine meaning in all nature granted to his soul that he could scarcely understand why it was in any way necessary that he should continue to live. Yet that was part of the divine purpose and he dared not question its use, he above all others who had sinned so deeply and so foully against the divine purpose. Meek and abased by this consciousness of the one eternal omnipresent perfect reality his soul took up again her burden of pieties, masses and prayers and sacraments and mortifications, and only then for the first time since he had brooded on the great mystery of love did he feel within him a warm movement like that of some newly born life or virtue of the soul itself. The attitude of rapture in sacred art, the raised and parted hands, the parted lips and eyes as of one about to swoon, became for him an image of the soul in prayer, humiliated and faint before her Creator.
但他不能再不相信爱的真实性，因为上帝自永恒以来就以神圣的爱爱着他个人的灵魂。渐渐地，当他的灵魂充满了灵性知识时，他看到整个世界形成了一个巨大而对称的上帝力量和爱的表达。生命对于每一个时刻和每一个感觉都成为神圣的礼物，即使是看到树枝上挂着一片叶子，他的灵魂也应该赞美和感谢赐予者。对于他的灵魂来说，世界不再存在其坚实的实质和复杂性，除了作为神圣力量、爱和普遍性的定理。这种对一切自然的神圣意义的感觉是如此完整和不容置疑地赋予了他的灵魂，以至于他几乎无法理解为什么他有必要继续活下去。然而，那是神圣目的的一部分，他不敢质疑它的用途，他比所有犯下如此严重和如此严重的罪行的人都违背了神圣目的。温顺而卑微地意识到这个永恒的无所不在的完美现实，他的灵魂再次承担起了虔诚、弥撒、祈祷、圣礼和禁欲的重担，只有在那时，自从他沉思于爱的伟大奥秘以来，他才第一次感觉到他内心有一种温暖的运动，就像某种新生的生命或灵魂本身的美德。对神圣艺术的狂喜态度，举起和张开的双手，张开的嘴唇和眼睛，就像一个即将昏厥的人一样，对他来说，成为祈祷中的灵魂的形象，在她的造物主面前受到羞辱和软弱。

But he had been forewarned of the dangers of spiritual exaltation and did not allow himself to desist from even the least or lowliest devotion, striving also by constant mortification to undo the sinful past rather than to achieve a saintliness fraught with peril. Each of his senses was brought under a rigorous discipline. In order to mortify the sense of sight he made it his rule to walk in the street with downcast eyes, glancing neither to right nor left and never behind him. His eyes shunned every encounter with the eyes of women. From time to time also he balked them by a sudden effort of the will, as by lifting them suddenly in the middle of an unfinished sentence and closing the book. To mortify his hearing he exerted no control over his voice which was then breaking, neither sang nor whistled, and made no attempt to flee from noises which caused him painful nervous irritation such as the sharpening of knives on the knife board, the gathering of cinders on the fire-shovel and the twigging of the carpet. To mortify his smell was more difficult as he found in himself no instinctive repugnance to bad odours whether they were the odours of the outdoor world, such as those of dung or tar, or the odours of his own person among which he had made many curious comparisons and experiments. He found in the end that the only odour against which his sense of smell revolted was a certain stale fishy stink like that of long-standing urine; and whenever it was possible he subjected himself to this unpleasant odour. To mortify the taste he practised strict habits at table, observed to the letter all the fasts of the church and sought by distraction to divert his mind from the savours of different foods. But it was to the mortification of touch he brought the most assiduous ingenuity of inventiveness. He never consciously changed his position in bed, sat in the most uncomfortable positions, suffered patiently every itch and pain, kept away from the fire, remained on his knees all through the mass except at the gospels, left part of his neck and face undried so that air might sting them and, whenever he was not saying his beads, carried his arms stiffly at his sides like a runner and never in his pockets or clasped behind him.
但他已经被预先警告过精神高升的危险，并且不允许自己停止哪怕是最微不足道或最低下的奉献，他还通过不断的克己努力消除罪恶的过去，而不是实现充满危险的圣洁。他的每一个感官都受到严格的训练。为了抑制视觉，他在街上行走时总是低着头，不左顾右盼，也不看身后。他的目光避开了每一次与女性目光的接触。有时，他也会用突然的意志力来阻止它们，比如在未说完的句子中突然举起它们并合上书。为了损害他的听力，他无法控制自己的声音，他的声音已经变得破碎，既不唱歌也不吹口哨，也没有试图逃离那些引起他痛苦的神经刺激的噪音，例如刀板上的刀子磨刀的声音，煤渣的聚集。火铲和地毯的树枝。抑制他的气味更加困难，因为他发现自己对难闻的气味没有本能的反感，无论它们是户外世界的气味，例如粪便或焦油的气味，还是他自己身上的气味，其中他让许多人感到好奇。比较和实验。最后他发现，唯一让他的嗅觉感到反感的气味就是某种陈旧的鱼腥味，就像长期存在的尿液一样；他的嗅觉非常灵敏。只要有可能，他就会让自己接触这种难闻的气味。为了抑制口味，他在餐桌上养成了严格的习惯，严格遵守教会的所有禁食规定，并试图通过分散注意力来转移自己对不同食物的品味。 但他却带来了最勤奋的独创性创造力。他从不自觉地改变床上的姿势，坐在最不舒服的位置，耐心地忍受每一次瘙痒和疼痛，远离火源，除了福音书之外，在整个弥撒中一直跪着，脖子和脸的一部分没有擦干。这样空气就会刺痛他们，每当他不念念珠的时候，他就会像跑步者一样僵硬地将手臂放在身体两侧，而不是放在口袋里或扣在身后。

He had no temptations to sin mortally. It surprised him however to find that at the end of his course of intricate piety and self-restraint he was so easily at the mercy of childish and unworthy imperfections. His prayers and fasts availed him little for the suppression of anger at hearing his mother sneeze or at being disturbed in his devotions. It needed an immense effort of his will to master the impulse which urged him to give outlet to such irritation. Images of the outbursts of trivial anger which he had often noted among his masters, their twitching mouths, close-shut lips and flushed cheeks, recurred to his memory, discouraging him, for all his practice of humility, by the comparison. To merge his life in the common tide of other lives was harder for him than any fasting or prayer and it was his constant failure to do this to his own satisfaction which caused in his soul at last a sensation of spiritual dryness together with a growth of doubts and scruples. His soul traversed a period of desolation in which the sacraments themselves seemed to have turned into dried-up sources. His confession became a channel for the escape of scrupulous and unrepented imperfections. His actual reception of the eucharist did not bring him the same dissolving moments of virginal self-surrender as did those spiritual communions made by him sometimes at the close of some visit to the Blessed Sacrament. The book which he used for these visits was an old neglected book written by saint Alphonsus Liguori, with fading characters and sere foxpapered leaves. A faded world of fervent love and virginal responses seemed to be evoked for his soul by the reading of its pages in which the imagery of the canticles was interwoven with the communicant’s prayers. An inaudible voice seemed to caress the soul, telling her names and glories, bidding her arise as for espousal and come away, bidding her look forth, a spouse, from Amana and from the mountains of the leopards; and the soul seemed to answer with the same inaudible voice, surrendering herself: INTER UBERA MEA COMMORABITUR.
他没有受到致命犯罪的诱惑。然而，他惊讶地发现，在他错综复杂的虔诚和自我克制的过程结束时，他很容易受到幼稚和不值得的缺陷的摆布。当他听到母亲打喷嚏或在祈祷中受到干扰时，他的祈祷和禁食对抑制愤怒几乎没有帮助。他需要付出巨大的意志努力才能控制住驱使他发泄这种愤怒的冲动。他经常在他的主人身上注意到那些微不足道的愤怒爆发的画面，他们抽搐的嘴角，紧闭的嘴唇和通红的脸颊，在他的记忆中重现，相比之下，尽管他一直保持谦逊，但他还是感到沮丧。对他来说，将自己的生活融入到其他生活的共同潮流中比任何禁食或祈祷都更困难，而正是他不断地未能做到让自己满意，才最终在他的灵魂中造成了一种精神干涸的感觉，同时也滋生了一种精神上的枯竭感。疑惑和顾忌。他的灵魂经历了一段荒凉的时期，圣礼本身似乎已经变成干涸的源泉。他的忏悔成为逃避一丝不苟和不悔改的缺陷的渠道。他实际接受圣体圣事并没有给他带来同样的童贞自我屈服的溶解时刻，就像他有时在参观圣体圣事结束时所做的精神交流那样。他在这些访问中使用的书是一本被忽视的老书，由圣人阿方索斯·利古里（Alphonsus Liguori）撰写，上面的文字已经褪色，书页上有狐狸纸般的枯萎。阅读其中圣歌的意象与圣餐者的祈祷交织在一起的书页，似乎唤起了他的灵魂，唤起了一个充满热情的爱和童贞反应的褪色世界。 一个听不见的声音似​​乎在抚摸她的灵魂，诉说着她的名字和荣耀，吩咐她起来结婚并离开，吩咐她从阿马纳和豹子山上寻找配偶；灵魂似乎用同样听不见的声音回答，投降了自己：INTER UBERA MEA COMMORABITUR。

This idea of surrender had a perilous attraction for his mind now that he felt his soul beset once again by the insistent voices of the flesh which began to murmur to him again during his prayers and meditations. It gave him an intense sense of power to know that he could, by a single act of consent, in a moment of thought, undo all that he had done. He seemed to feel a flood slowly advancing towards his naked feet and to be waiting for the first faint timid noiseless wavelet to touch his fevered skin. Then, almost at the instant of that touch, almost at the verge of sinful consent, he found himself standing far away from the flood upon a dry shore, saved by a sudden act of the will or a sudden ejaculation; and, seeing the silver line of the flood far away and beginning again its slow advance towards his feet, a new thrill of power and satisfaction shook his soul to know that he had not yielded nor undone all.
这种投降的想法对他的思想产生了危险的吸引力，因为他感到自己的灵魂再次被肉体持续不断的声音所困扰，这些声音在他的祈祷和冥想期间再次开始向他低语。这给了他一种强烈的力量感，因为他知道，只要一念之间，只要一个同意的举动，他就可以撤销他所做的一切。他似乎感觉到一股洪水慢慢地向他赤裸的双脚涌来，并等待着第一缕微弱的、胆怯的、无声的小波触及他发烧的皮肤。然后，几乎就在那一触碰的瞬间，几乎在罪恶的同意的边缘，他发现自己站在远离洪水的干燥海岸上，被突然的意志行动或突然的射精所拯救；看到远处银色的洪水线又开始缓慢地向他的脚部推进，一种新的力量和满足的兴奋震撼了他的灵魂，因为他知道自己并没有屈服，也没有毁掉一切。

When he had eluded the flood of temptation many times in this way he grew troubled and wondered whether the grace which he had refused to lose was not being filched from him little by little. The clear certitude of his own immunity grew dim and to it succeeded a vague fear that his soul had really fallen unawares. It was with difficulty that he won back his old consciousness of his state of grace by telling himself that he had prayed to God at every temptation and that the grace which he had prayed for must have been given to him inasmuch as God was obliged to give it. The very frequency and violence of temptations showed him at last the truth of what he had heard about the trials of the saints. Frequent and violent temptations were a proof that the citadel of the soul had not fallen and that the devil raged to make it fall.
当他多次这样摆脱了如潮水般的试探之后，他开始感到不安，怀疑他所拒绝失去的恩典是否正在被一点一点地从他身上偷走。他对自己的免疫力的明确确信变得模糊，随之而来的是一种模糊的恐惧，担心他的灵魂真的不知不觉地陷入了困境。他好不容易才恢复了对恩典状态的旧有意识，因为他告诉自己，他在每一次试探中都向上帝祈祷，而且他所祈求的恩典一定已经赐给他了，因为上帝有义务给予他。它。试探的频繁和猛烈最终向他表明了他所听到的有关圣徒试炼的真相。频繁而猛烈的试探证明灵魂的堡垒还没有倒塌，而魔鬼却肆意地想要让它倒塌。

Often when he had confessed his doubts and scruples—some momentary inattention at prayer, a movement of trivial anger in his soul, or a subtle wilfulness in speech or act—he was bidden by his confessor to name some sin of his past life before absolution was given him. He named it with humility and shame and repented of it once more. It humiliated and shamed him to think that he would never be freed from it wholly, however holily he might live or whatever virtues or perfections he might attain. A restless feeling of guilt would always be present with him: he would confess and repent and be absolved, confess and repent again and be absolved again, fruitlessly. Perhaps that first hasty confession wrung from him by the fear of hell had not been good? Perhaps, concerned only for his imminent doom, he had not had sincere sorrow for his sin? But the surest sign that his confession had been good and that he had had sincere sorrow for his sin was, he knew, the amendment of his life.
通常，当他坦白自己的疑虑和顾虑时——祈祷时短暂的注意力不集中、灵魂中的微不足道的愤怒运动，或者言语或行为中微妙的任性——他的忏悔神父会要求他在赦免之前说出他前世的一些罪孽。被给了他。他带着谦卑和羞愧说出了它，并再次为此悔改。想到自己永远无法完全摆脱它，无论他生活得多么神圣，无论他可能获得什么美德或完美，他都感到羞辱和羞愧。一种不安的负罪感总是伴随着他：他会认罪、悔改，然后得到赦免，再认罪、悔改，再得到赦免，但毫无结果。也许他因对地狱的恐惧而仓促承认的第一次并不好？也许，他只关心自己即将到来的厄运，并没有为自己的罪孽感到真诚的悲伤？但他知道，他的认罪是好的，并且他对自己的罪有真诚的悲伤，最可靠的标志就是他生活的改变。

—I have amended my life, have I not? he asked himself.
——我已经改变了我的生活，不是吗？他问自己。

*****

The director stood in the embrasure of the window, his back to the light, leaning an elbow on the brown crossblind, and, as he spoke and smiled, slowly dangling and looping the cord of the other blind, Stephen stood before him, following for a moment with his eyes the waning of the long summer daylight above the roofs or the slow deft movements of the priestly fingers. The priest’s face was in total shadow, but the waning daylight from behind him touched the deeply grooved temples and the curves of the skull.
导演站在窗子的射孔里，背对着灯光，手肘靠在棕色的百叶窗上，一边说话一边微笑​​着，慢慢地晃动并缠绕着另一个百叶窗的绳子，史蒂芬站在他面前，跟在他后面。他用眼睛注视着屋顶上漫长的夏日日光的减弱或牧师手指缓慢而灵巧的动作。牧师的脸完全处于阴影中，但他身后逐渐减弱的日光照射到了深沟的太阳穴和头骨的曲线上。

Stephen followed also with his ears the accents and intervals of the priest’s voice as he spoke gravely and cordially of indifferent themes, the vacation which had just ended, the colleges of the order abroad, the transference of masters. The grave and cordial voice went on easily with its tale and in the pauses Stephen felt bound to set it on again with respectful questions. He knew that the tale was a prelude and his mind waited for the sequel. Ever since the message of summons had come for him from the director his mind had struggled to find the meaning of the message; and, during the long restless time he had sat in the college parlour waiting for the director to come in, his eyes had wandered from one sober picture to another around the walls and his mind wandered from one guess to another until the meaning of the summons had almost become clear. Then, just as he was wishing that some unforeseen cause might prevent the director from coming, he had heard the handle of the door turning and the swish of a soutane.
斯蒂芬的耳朵也跟着神父严肃而亲切地谈论无关紧要的主题、刚刚结束的假期、国外的学院、大师的调动时的口音和音调。严肃而亲切的声音轻松地继续讲述着故事，在停顿中，斯蒂芬觉得有必要带着尊重的问题再次开始。他知道这个故事只是前奏，他的心思等待着续集。自从导演给他传唤的消息后，他的大脑就一直在努力寻找消息的含义；而且，在他坐在大学客厅等待主任进来的漫长不安的时间里，他的眼睛从一幅清醒的照片游移到墙上的另一幅清醒的照片，他的思绪从一种猜测游移到另一种猜测，直到传唤的含义。几乎已经清楚了。然后，正当他希望有什么不可预见的原因阻止主任来的时候，他听到门把手转动和苏丹尼的声音。

The director had begun to speak of the dominican and franciscan orders and of the friendship between saint Thomas and saint Bonaventure. The capuchin dress, he thought, was rather too...
导演开始谈论多明我会和方济各会以及圣托马斯和圣文德之间的友谊。他觉得这件卷尾猴连衣裙实在是太……

Stephen’s face gave back the priest’s indulgent smile and, not being anxious to give an opinion, he made a slight dubitative movement with his lips.
斯蒂芬的脸上露出了神父宽容的微笑，他并不急于发表意见，他的嘴唇做了一个轻微的怀疑动作。

—I believe, continued the director, that there is some talk now among the capuchins themselves of doing away with it and following the example of the other franciscans.
——我相信，导演继续说道，卷尾猴们现在正在讨论废除它并效仿其他方济各会的例子。

—I suppose they would retain it in the cloisters? said Stephen.
——我想他们会把它保留在回廊里？斯蒂芬说。

—O certainly, said the director. For the cloister it is all right but for the street I really think it would be better to do away with it, don’t you?
——当然，导演说。对于修道院来说，这还可以，但是对于街道来说，我真的认为最好取消它，不是吗？

—It must be troublesome, I imagine.
——我想一定很麻烦吧。

—Of course it is, of course. Just imagine when I was in Belgium I used to see them out cycling in all kinds of weather with this thing up about their knees! It was really ridiculous. LES JUPES, they call them in Belgium.
——当然是这样，当然是这样。想象一下，当我在比利时时，我经常看到他们在各种天气下骑自行车，膝盖上挂着这个东西！实在是太可笑了。比利时人称其为“LES JUPES”。

The vowel was so modified as to be indistinct.
元音被修改得模糊不清。

—What do they call them?
——他们怎么称呼他们？

—LES JUPES.
——莱斯·朱佩斯。

—O!
——噢！

Stephen smiled again in answer to the smile which he could not see on the priest’s shadowed face, its image or spectre only passing rapidly across his mind as the low discreet accent fell upon his ear. He gazed calmly before him at the waning sky, glad of the cool of the evening and of the faint yellow glow which hid the tiny flame kindling upon his cheek.
斯蒂芬再次微笑着回应他在牧师阴影脸上看不到的微笑，当低沉谨慎的口音落在他耳边时，他的形象或幽灵只是迅速掠过他的脑海。他平静地凝视着前方渐渐暗淡的天空，很高兴傍晚的凉爽，还有微弱的黄色光芒掩盖了他脸颊上燃起的微小火焰。

The names of articles of dress worn by women or of certain soft and delicate stuffs used in their making brought always to his mind a delicate and sinful perfume. As a boy he had imagined the reins by which horses are driven as slender silken bands and it shocked him to feel at Stradbrooke the greasy leather of harness. It had shocked him, too, when he had felt for the first time beneath his tremulous fingers the brittle texture of a woman’s stocking for, retaining nothing of all he read save that which seemed to him an echo or a prophecy of his own state, it was only amid soft-worded phrases or within rose-soft stuffs that he dared to conceive of the soul or body of a woman moving with tender life.
女人穿的衣服或制作衣服时使用的某些柔软而精致的材料的名称总是让他想起一种精致而罪恶的香水。当他还是个孩子的时候，他就想象过用来驱赶马匹的缰绳是细长的丝带，当斯特拉布鲁克感受到油腻的皮革马具时，他感到很震惊。当他第一次在颤抖的手指下感觉到女人长袜的脆弱质地时，他也感到震惊，除了在他看来是他自己状态的回声或预言之外，他读到的所有内容都没有保留，只有在措辞柔和的短语或玫瑰般柔软的东西中，他才敢想象一个女人的灵魂或身体在温柔的生命中移动。

But the phrase on the priest’s lips was disingenuous for he knew that a priest should not speak lightly on that theme. The phrase had been spoken lightly with design and he felt that his face was being searched by the eyes in the shadow. Whatever he had heard or read of the craft of jesuits he had put aside frankly as not borne out by his own experience. His masters, even when they had not attracted him, had seemed to him always intelligent and serious priests, athletic and high-spirited prefects. He thought of them as men who washed their bodies briskly with cold water and wore clean cold linen. During all the years he had lived among them in Clongowes and in Belvedere he had received only two pandies and, though these had been dealt him in the wrong, he knew that he had often escaped punishment. During all those years he had never heard from any of his masters a flippant word: it was they who had taught him christian doctrine and urged him to live a good life and, when he had fallen into grievous sin, it was they who had led him back to grace. Their presence had made him diffident of himself when he was a muff in Clongowes and it had made him diffident of himself also while he had held his equivocal position in Belvedere. A constant sense of this had remained with him up to the last year of his school life. He had never once disobeyed or allowed turbulent companions to seduce him from his habit of quiet obedience; and, even when he doubted some statement of a master, he had never presumed to doubt openly. Lately some of their judgements had sounded a little childish in his ears and had made him feel a regret and pity as though he were slowly passing out of an accustomed world and were hearing its language for the last time. One day when some boys had gathered round a priest under the shed near the chapel, he had heard the priest say:
但神父嘴上说的这句话并不真诚，因为他知道神父不应该轻易谈论这个话题。这句话是故意说得轻描淡写的，他感觉阴影中的眼睛正在审视他的脸。无论他听到或读到过什么关于耶稣会士的技艺，他都坦率地搁置一边，因为他自己的经历并没有证实这一点。他的主人，即使他们没有吸引他，在他看来，他们总是聪明而严肃的牧师，运动健壮且斗志昂扬的级长。他认为他们是用冷水快速清洗身体并穿着干净冰凉的亚麻布的人。在他在克朗戈斯和贝尔韦代雷与他们一起生活的这些年里，他只收到过两块潘迪，虽然这些潘迪是错误地对待他的，但他知道他经常逃脱惩罚。这些年来，他从未从他的任何一个老师那里听到过一句轻率的话：是他们教给他基督教教义，督促他过上美好的生活，当他犯下严重的罪孽时，是他们带领他走上正轨。他重回恩典。当他在克朗戈斯做一个手无寸铁的人时，他们的存在使他对自己缺乏信心，当他在贝尔韦代雷担任模棱两可的职位时，他们的存在也使他对自己缺乏信心。直到他学校生活的最后一年，这种感觉一直伴随着他。他从来没有违抗过，也没有允许暴躁的同伴引诱他改变他安静服从的习惯。而且，即使当他怀疑一位大师的某些说法时，他也从未公开怀疑过。最近他们的一些判断在他耳中听起来有些幼稚，让他感到遗憾和怜悯，仿佛他正在慢慢走出一个习惯的世界，最后一次听到它的语言。有一天，当一些男孩聚集在教堂附近棚子下的一位牧师周围时，他听到牧师说：

—I believe that Lord Macaulay was a man who probably never committed a mortal sin in his life, that is to say, a deliberate mortal sin.
——我相信麦考利勋爵一生中可能从未犯过致命罪，也就是说，故意犯过致命罪。

Some of the boys had then asked the priest if Victor Hugo were not the greatest French writer. The priest had answered that Victor Hugo had never written half so well when he had turned against the church as he had written when he was a catholic.
然后，一些男孩问神父维克多·雨果是否不是最伟大的法国作家。神父回答说，维克多·雨果在反对教会时写的文章从来没有他作为天主教徒时写得那么好。

—But there are many eminent French critics, said the priest, who consider that even Victor Hugo, great as he certainly was, had not so pure a French style as Louis Veuillot.
——但神父说，有许多著名的法国评论家认为，即使是伟大的维克多·雨果，也没有像路易·韦伊洛那样纯粹的法国风格。

The tiny flame which the priest’s allusion had kindled upon Stephen’s cheek had sunk down again and his eyes were still fixed calmly on the colourless sky. But an unresting doubt flew hither and thither before his mind. Masked memories passed quickly before him: he recognized scenes and persons yet he was conscious that he had failed to perceive some vital circumstance in them. He saw himself walking about the grounds watching the sports in Clongowes and eating slim jim out of his cricket cap. Some jesuits were walking round the cycle-track in the company of ladies. The echoes of certain expressions used in Clongowes sounded in remote caves of his mind.
牧师的暗示在史蒂芬脸颊上燃起的微小火焰又沉了下来，他的眼睛仍然平静地盯着无色的天空。但一个令人不安的疑虑在他的脑海中飞来飞去。被掩盖的记忆在他面前飞速掠过：他认出了场景和人物，但他意识到自己未能察觉到其中的某些重要情况。他看见自己在球场上走来走去，观看克朗戈斯的体育比赛，吃着板球帽里的苗条吉姆。一些耶稣会士在女士们的陪伴下沿着自行车道散步。克朗戈维斯使用的某些表达方式的回声在他脑海中遥远的洞穴中响起。

His ears were listening to these distant echoes amid the silence of the parlour when he became aware that the priest was addressing him in a different voice.
他的耳朵在客厅的寂静中聆听这些遥远的回声，这时他意识到牧师正在用不同的声音对他说话。

—I sent for you today, Stephen, because I wished to speak to you on a very important subject.
——史蒂芬，我今天派人来找你，因为我想和你谈谈一个非常重要的话题。

—Yes, sir.
-是的先生。

—Have you ever felt that you had a vocation?
——你有没有觉得自己有一份使命？

Stephen parted his lips to answer yes and then withheld the word suddenly. The priest waited for the answer and added:
斯蒂芬张开嘴唇回答“是”，然后突然忍住了。神父等待答案，补充道：

—I mean, have you ever felt within yourself, in your soul, a desire to join the order? Think.
——我的意思是，你是否曾在自己的内心、灵魂中感受到加入骑士团的渴望？思考。

—I have sometimes thought of it, said Stephen.
——我有时会想到这一点，斯蒂芬说。

The priest let the blindcord fall to one side and, uniting his hands, leaned his chin gravely upon them, communing with himself.
神父把盲绳放到一边，双手合十，下巴严肃地靠在双手上，自言自语。

—In a college like this, he said at length, there is one boy or perhaps two or three boys whom God calls to the religious life. Such a boy is marked off from his companions by his piety, by the good example he shows to others. He is looked up to by them; he is chosen perhaps as prefect by his fellow sodalists. And you, Stephen, have been such a boy in this college, prefect of Our Blessed Lady’s sodality. Perhaps you are the boy in this college whom God designs to call to Himself.
——在这样一所大学里，他最后说道，有一个男孩，或者两三个男孩被上帝召唤进入宗教生活。这样一个男孩与他的同伴的区别在于他的虔诚，以及他为他人树立的好榜样。他们尊敬他；他也许被他的共党同僚选为省长。而你，史蒂芬，就是这所大学里的一个男孩，圣母联谊会的长官。也许你就是这所大学里上帝计划召唤来归向他自己的男孩。

A strong note of pride reinforcing the gravity of the priest’s voice made Stephen’s heart quicken in response.
牧师声音中的强烈自豪感增强了他的严肃性，这让斯蒂芬的心跳加速。

To receive that call, Stephen, said the priest, is the greatest honour that the Almighty God can bestow upon a man. No king or emperor on this earth has the power of the priest of God. No angel or archangel in heaven, no saint, not even the Blessed Virgin herself, has the power of a priest of God: the power of the keys, the power to bind and to loose from sin, the power of exorcism, the power to cast out from the creatures of God the evil spirits that have power over them; the power, the authority, to make the great God of Heaven come down upon the altar and take the form of bread and wine. What an awful power, Stephen!
司提反神父说，接受这个召唤是全能的上帝能够赐予一个人的最大荣誉。世上没有国王或皇帝拥有上帝祭司的权力。天上的天使或大天使，圣人，甚至圣母玛利亚本人，都没有上帝祭司的力量：钥匙的力量，束缚和释放罪恶的力量，驱魔的力量，从上帝的创造物中赶出那些有权势的邪灵；能力、权柄，使天上伟大的神降临在祭坛上，并以饼和酒的形式出现。斯蒂芬，多么可怕的力量啊！

A flame began to flutter again on Stephen’s cheek as he heard in this proud address an echo of his own proud musings. How often had he seen himself as a priest wielding calmly and humbly the awful power of which angels and saints stood in reverence! His soul had loved to muse in secret on this desire. He had seen himself, a young and silent-mannered priest, entering a confessional swiftly, ascending the altarsteps, incensing, genuflecting, accomplishing the vague acts of the priesthood which pleased him by reason of their semblance of reality and of their distance from it. In that dim life which he had lived through in his musings he had assumed the voices and gestures which he had noted with various priests. He had bent his knee sideways like such a one, he had shaken the thurible only slightly like such a one, his chasuble had swung open like that of such another as he turned to the altar again after having blessed the people. And above all it had pleased him to fill the second place in those dim scenes of his imagining. He shrank from the dignity of celebrant because it displeased him to imagine that all the vague pomp should end in his own person or that the ritual should assign to him so clear and final an office. He longed for the minor sacred offices, to be vested with the tunicle of subdeacon at high mass, to stand aloof from the altar, forgotten by the people, his shoulders covered with a humeral veil, holding the paten within its folds or, when the sacrifice had been accomplished, to stand as deacon in a dalmatic of cloth of gold on the step below the celebrant, his hands joined and his face towards the people, and sing the chant ITE MISSA EST. If ever he had seen himself celebrant it was as in the pictures of the mass in his child’s massbook, in a church without worshippers, save for the angel of the sacrifice, at a bare altar, and served by an acolyte scarcely more boyish than himself. In vague sacrificial or sacramental acts alone his will seemed drawn to go forth to encounter reality; and it was partly the absence of an appointed rite which had always constrained him to inaction whether he had allowed silence to cover his anger or pride or had suffered only an embrace he longed to give.
当斯蒂芬在这段自豪的演讲中听到自己自豪的沉思的回响时，他的脸颊上再次燃起了火焰。他多少次看到自己是一名牧师，平静而谦逊地挥舞着天使和圣徒所敬畏的可怕力量！他的灵魂喜欢暗自思考这个愿望。他看到自己，一个年轻而沉默寡言的牧师，迅速进入忏悔室，走上祭坛台阶，焚香，跪拜，完成神职人员的模糊行为，这些行为使他满意，因为这些行为看似现实，但又远离现实。在他沉思所经历的那段昏暗的生活中，他采用了他在不同的牧师那里注意到的声音和手势。他像这样的人一样侧弯膝盖，像这样的人一样轻轻地摇动坩埚，当他祝福完人们之后再次转向祭坛时，他的祭坛像这样的人一样打开了。最重要的是，他很高兴能够在他想象的那些昏暗场景中占据第二位。他对司仪的尊严感到畏缩，因为一想到所有含糊的盛况都以他本人结束，或者仪式应该为他分配如此明确和最终的职位，他感到不高兴。他渴望担任次要的神圣职位，在大弥撒中被授予副执事的外衣，远离祭坛，被人们遗忘，他的肩膀上覆盖着肩头的面纱，将帕坦放在褶皱中，或者，当祭祀已经完成，身着金丝布的执事站在主礼人下方的台阶上，双手合十，脸朝向人们，唱圣歌“ITE MISSA EST”。 如果他曾经见过自己在庆祝，那就像他孩子的弥撒书中的弥撒图片一样，在一个没有礼拜者的教堂里，除了献祭的天使，在一个光秃秃的祭坛前，由一个比他更孩子气的侍祭侍候。 。仅在模糊的祭祀或圣礼行为中，他的意志似乎就被吸引着去面对现实。部分原因是缺乏指定的仪式，无论他是让沉默来掩盖他的愤怒或骄傲，还是只接受他渴望给予的拥抱，他总是无所作为。

He listened in reverent silence now to the priest’s appeal and through the words he heard even more distinctly a voice bidding him approach, offering him secret knowledge and secret power. He would know then what was the sin of Simon Magus and what the sin against the Holy Ghost for which there was no forgiveness. He would know obscure things, hidden from others, from those who were conceived and born children of wrath. He would know the sins, the sinful longings and sinful thoughts and sinful acts, of others, hearing them murmured into his ears in the confessional under the shame of a darkened chapel by the lips of women and of girls; but rendered immune mysteriously at his ordination by the imposition of hands, his soul would pass again uncontaminated to the white peace of the altar. No touch of sin would linger upon the hands with which he would elevate and break the host; no touch of sin would linger on his lips in prayer to make him eat and drink damnation to himself not discerning the body of the Lord. He would hold his secret knowledge and secret power, being as sinless as the innocent, and he would be a priest for ever according to the order of Melchisedec.
现在，他以虔诚的沉默聆听着牧师的呼吁，通过话语，他听到了更加清晰的声音，要求他靠近，向他提供秘密知识和秘密力量。那时他就会知道西门马格斯犯了什么罪，以及什么罪违背了圣灵而无法得到宽恕。他会知道一些晦涩难懂的事情，这些事情对别人、对那些在可怒之子怀胎生下的人来说都是隐藏的。他会知道其他人的罪恶、罪恶的渴望、罪恶的思想和罪恶的行为，在忏悔室里，在黑暗的教堂的耻辱下，听到妇女和女孩的嘴唇在他耳边低声低语；但在他受授圣职时，他的灵魂神秘地免受了影响，将再次不受污染地进入祭坛的白色和平中。他举起或破坏大军的双手不会沾染任何罪恶。在祷告中，任何罪恶都不会在他的嘴唇上徘徊，使他在不辨别主的身体的情况下吃喝自己的咒诅。他将保留他的秘密知识和秘密力量，像无辜者一样无罪，并且根据麦基洗德的命令，他将永远担任祭司。

—I will offer up my mass tomorrow morning, said the director, that Almighty God may reveal to you His holy will. And let you, Stephen, make a novena to your holy patron saint, the first martyr, who is very powerful with God, that God may enlighten your mind. But you must be quite sure, Stephen, that you have a vocation because it would be terrible if you found afterwards that you had none. Once a priest always a priest, remember. Your catechism tells you that the sacrament of Holy Orders is one of those which can be received only once because it imprints on the soul an indelible spiritual mark which can never be effaced. It is before you must weigh well, not after. It is a solemn question, Stephen, because on it may depend the salvation of your eternal soul. But we will pray to God together.
——明天早上我将献上我的弥撒，主任说，以便全能的上帝向你们揭示他的神圣旨意。斯蒂芬，让你向你的神圣守护神、第一位殉道者写一个九日敬礼，他对上帝非常有能力，以便上帝启发你的思想。但你必须非常确定，斯蒂芬，你有一个职业，因为如果你事后发现你没有职业，那将是可怕的。一日为牧师，终生为牧师，记住。您的教理问答告诉您，圣职圣事是只能领受一次的圣事之一，因为它在灵魂上留下了不可磨灭的精神印记，永远无法抹去。必须在之前称好体重，而不是之后。这是一个严肃的问题，斯蒂芬，因为它可能取决于你永恒灵魂的救赎。但我们会一起向上帝祈祷。

He held open the heavy hall door and gave his hand as if already to a companion in the spiritual life. Stephen passed out on to the wide platform above the steps and was conscious of the caress of mild evening air. Towards Findlater’s church a quartet of young men were striding along with linked arms, swaying their heads and stepping to the agile melody of their leader’s concertina. The music passed in an instant, as the first bars of sudden music always did, over the fantastic fabrics of his mind, dissolving them painlessly and noiselessly as a sudden wave dissolves the sand-built turrets of children. Smiling at the trivial air he raised his eyes to the priest’s face and, seeing in it a mirthless reflection of the sunken day, detached his hand slowly which had acquiesced faintly in the companionship.
他打开沉重的门厅，伸出手来，仿佛已经向一位精神生活中的同伴伸出了手。史蒂芬昏倒在台阶上方的宽阔平台上，感觉到傍晚温和的空气的爱抚。一群年轻人手挽着手，摇着头，随着领袖​​手风琴的敏捷旋律，大步走向芬德莱特的教堂。音乐在一瞬间就过去了，就像突然出现的音乐的第一小节总是那样，在他脑海中奇妙的结构上，无痛无声地溶解它们，就像突然的波浪溶解了孩子们用沙子建造的塔楼一样。他微笑着看着这微不足道的空气，抬起眼睛看着神父的脸，看到他脸上倒影着落日的悲惨景象，他慢慢地松开了已经隐约默许了陪伴的手。

As he descended the steps the impression which effaced his troubled self-communion was that of a mirthless mask reflecting a sunken day from the threshold of the college. The shadow, then, of the life of the college passed gravely over his consciousness. It was a grave and ordered and passionless life that awaited him, a life without material cares. He wondered how he would pass the first night in the novitiate and with what dismay he would wake the first morning in the dormitory. The troubling odour of the long corridors of Clongowes came back to him and he heard the discreet murmur of the burning gasflames. At once from every part of his being unrest began to irradiate. A feverish quickening of his pulses followed, and a din of meaningless words drove his reasoned thoughts hither and thither confusedly. His lungs dilated and sank as if he were inhaling a warm moist unsustaining air and he smelt again the moist warm air which hung in the bath in Clongowes above the sluggish turf-coloured water.
当他走下台阶时，他的印象是一张阴郁的面具，映照着学院门口的阴沉的一天，这抹去了他烦恼的自我交流。于是，大学生活的阴影严重笼罩了他的意识。等待着他的是一种严肃、有序、无激情的生活，一种没有物质忧虑的生活。他想知道他将如何度过见习期的第一个晚上，以及在宿舍的第一个早晨他会带着怎样的沮丧醒来。克朗戈斯长长的走廊里令人不安的气味又回到了他的耳中，他听到了燃烧的煤气发出的谨慎的低语声。立刻，不安从他全身的各个部分开始散发出来。他的脉搏随之狂热地加快，毫无意义的话语喧嚣驱使着他理性的思绪混乱地到处乱窜。他的肺部扩张、下沉，仿佛吸入了一股温暖、湿润、难以维持的空气，他再次闻到了悬挂在克朗戈斯浴缸里、缓慢的草皮色水面之上的湿润温暖空气的味道。

Some instinct, waking at these memories, stronger than education or piety, quickened within him at every near approach to that life, an instinct subtle and hostile, and armed him against acquiescence. The chill and order of the life repelled him. He saw himself rising in the cold of the morning and filing down with the others to early mass and trying vainly to struggle with his prayers against the fainting sickness of his stomach. He saw himself sitting at dinner with the community of a college. What, then, had become of that deep-rooted shyness of his which had made him loth to eat or drink under a strange roof? What had come of the pride of his spirit which had always made him conceive himself as a being apart in every order?
在这些记忆中醒来的某种本能，比教育或虔诚更强大，在他每一次接近那种生活时都会加速，一种微妙而敌对的本能，武装他反对默许。生活的寒冷和秩序让他感到厌恶。他看到自己在寒冷的早晨起床，和其他人一起下楼去参加早期的弥撒，徒劳地试图用祈祷来对抗胃部的晕厥。他看到自己和一所大学的社区成员一起吃晚饭。那么，他那根深蒂固的害羞，让他在陌生的屋檐下不愿吃喝，到底是怎么回事呢？他精神上的骄傲总是让他认为自己在各个阶层中都是与众不同的，现在他的骄傲到了什么程度呢？

The Reverend Stephen Dedalus, S.J.
斯蒂芬·迪达勒斯牧师 (S.J.

His name in that new life leaped into characters before his eyes and to it there followed a mental sensation of an undefined face or colour of a face. The colour faded and became strong like a changing glow of pallid brick red. Was it the raw reddish glow he had so often seen on wintry mornings on the shaven gills of the priests? The face was eyeless and sour-favoured and devout, shot with pink tinges of suffocated anger. Was it not a mental spectre of the face of one of the jesuits whom some of the boys called Lantern Jaws and others Foxy Campbell?
在新的生活中，他的名字在他眼前跃入文字，随之而来的是一种无法定义的面孔或面孔颜色的精神感觉。颜色渐渐褪去，变得浓烈起来，就像苍白的砖红色的光芒不断变化。这是他在寒冷的早晨经常看到的祭司剃光的鳃上发出的原始的红色光芒吗？那张脸没有眼睛，表情阴郁而虔诚，带着窒息的愤怒的粉红色调。这难道不是一位耶稣会士脸上的幽灵吗？有些男孩称他为“灯笼大白鲨”，其他人则称他为“福克西·坎贝尔”？

He was passing at that moment before the jesuit house in Gardiner Street and wondered vaguely which window would be his if he ever joined the order. Then he wondered at the vagueness of his wonder, at the remoteness of his own soul from what he had hitherto imagined her sanctuary, at the frail hold which so many years of order and obedience had of him when once a definite and irrevocable act of his threatened to end for ever, in time and in eternity, his freedom. The voice of the director urging upon him the proud claims of the church and the mystery and power of the priestly office repeated itself idly in his memory. His soul was not there to hear and greet it and he knew now that the exhortation he had listened to had already fallen into an idle formal tale. He would never swing the thurible before the tabernacle as priest. His destiny was to be elusive of social or religious orders. The wisdom of the priest’s appeal did not touch him to the quick. He was destined to learn his own wisdom apart from others or to learn the wisdom of others himself wandering among the snares of the world.
此刻，他正经过加德纳街耶稣会士的房子前，模糊地想知道如果他加入了耶稣会，哪扇窗户会是他的。然后他惊讶于他的惊奇的模糊性，惊讶于他自己的灵魂与他迄今为止所想象的她的庇护所的遥远，惊讶于多年来的秩序和服从对他的脆弱的控制，而曾经是他的明确和不可撤销的行为。他的自由受到威胁，无论是在时间上还是在永恒中，都将永远终止。主任的声音在他的记忆中漫不经心地重复着教会的骄傲主张以及神职人员的神秘和权力。他的灵魂不在那里聆听和迎接它，他现在知道他所听到的劝告已经变成了一个无聊的正式故事。作为祭司，他绝不会在会幕前挥舞坩埚。他的命运是难以摆脱社会或宗教秩序。神父明智的呼吁并没有触动他的痛处。他注定要在远离他人的地方学习自己的智慧，或者在世界的陷阱中学习别人的智慧。

The snares of the world were its ways of sin. He would fall. He had not yet fallen but he would fall silently, in an instant. Not to fall was too hard, too hard; and he felt the silent lapse of his soul, as it would be at some instant to come, falling, falling, but not yet fallen, still unfallen, but about to fall.
世界的网罗是它的罪恶之路。他会跌倒的。他还没有倒下，但他很快就会无声无息地倒下。不摔倒太难了，太难了；他感到自己的灵魂悄无声息地消失了，就像在即将到来的某个瞬间，坠落，坠落，但尚未坠落，仍未坠落，但即将坠落。

He crossed the bridge over the stream of the Tolka and turned his eyes coldly for an instant towards the faded blue shrine of the Blessed Virgin which stood fowl-wise on a pole in the middle of a ham-shaped encampment of poor cottages. Then, bending to the left, he followed the lane which led up to his house. The faint Sour stink of rotted cabbages came towards him from the kitchen gardens on the rising ground above the river. He smiled to think that it was this disorder, the misrule and confusion of his father’s house and the stagnation of vegetable life, which was to win the day in his soul. Then a short laugh broke from his lips as he thought of that solitary farmhand in the kitchen gardens behind their house whom they had nicknamed the man with the hat. A second laugh, taking rise from the first after a pause, broke from him involuntarily as he thought of how the man with the hat worked, considering in turn the four points of the sky and then regretfully plunging his spade in the earth.
他跨过托尔卡河上的桥，目光冰冷地转向那座褪色的蓝色圣母神殿，它像鸟一样立在火腿形的简陋小屋中间的一根柱子上。然后，他向左弯腰，沿着通向他家的小巷走去。腐烂的卷心菜的淡淡酸臭味从河边高地上的菜园里向他袭来。他微笑着想，正是这种混乱，他父亲家里的混乱和混乱，以及植物生命的停滞，才在他的灵魂中赢得了胜利。然后，当他想到他们房子后面菜园里那个孤独的农场工人时，他的嘴里发出一阵短促的笑声，他们给他起了个绰号叫“戴帽子的人”。当他想到戴帽子的人是如何工作的，轮流考虑天空的四个点，然后遗憾地将铁锹插入土里时，他在停顿之后不由自主地爆发出第二次笑声。

He pushed open the latchless door of the porch and passed through the naked hallway into the kitchen. A group of his brothers and sisters was sitting round the table. Tea was nearly over and only the last of the second watered tea remained in the bottoms of the small glass jars and jampots which did service for teacups. Discarded crusts and lumps of sugared bread, turned brown by the tea which had been poured over them, lay scattered on the table. Little wells of tea lay here and there on the board, and a knife with a broken ivory handle was stuck through the pith of a ravaged turnover.
他推开门廊上没有插销的门，穿过空荡荡的走廊，走进厨房。他的一群兄弟姐妹围坐在桌子旁。茶快喝完了，小玻璃罐和茶壶的底部只剩下最后一杯水了，这些茶壶是用来盛茶杯的。桌上散落着废弃的面包皮和糖面包块，它们被倒在上面的茶变成了棕色。桌上到处都是小井的茶水，一把象牙柄已破损的小刀插进了被毁坏的翻转的髓部。

The sad quiet grey-blue glow of the dying day came through the window and the open door, covering over and allaying quietly a sudden instinct of remorse in Stephen’s heart. All that had been denied them had been freely given to him, the eldest; but the quiet glow of evening showed him in their faces no sign of rancour.
即将逝去的一天，悲伤而安静的灰蓝色光芒透过窗户和敞开的门射进来，悄悄地掩盖和缓解了斯蒂芬心中突然出现的悔恨本能。他们所拒绝的一切都被白白地赐给了他，这个长子。但夜色静谧，在他们的脸上看不出他有任何怨恨的迹象。

He sat near them at the table and asked where his father and mother were. One answered:
他坐在桌旁靠近他们的位置，询问他的父母在哪里。一位回答说：

—Goneboro toboro lookboro atboro aboro houseboro.
—Goneboro toboro Lookboro atboro aboro houseboro。

Still another removal! A boy named Fallon in Belvedere had often asked him with a silly laugh why they moved so often. A frown of scorn darkened quickly his forehead as he heard again the silly laugh of the questioner.
又一个删除！贝尔韦代雷的一个名叫法伦的男孩经常傻笑地问他为什么他们这么频繁地搬家。当他再次听到发问者愚蠢的笑声时，他的额头很快就皱起了眉头。

He asked:
他问：

—Why are we on the move again if it’s a fair question?
——如果这是一个公平的问题，我们为什么还要再次搬家？

—Becauseboro theboro landboro lordboro willboro putboro usboro outboro.
——因为boro theboro landboro lordboro willboro putboro usboro outboro。

The voice of his youngest brother from the farther side of the fireplace began to sing the air OFT IN THE STILLY NIGHT. One by one the others took up the air until a full choir of voices was singing. They would sing so for hours, melody after melody, glee after glee, till the last pale light died down on the horizon, till the first dark night clouds came forth and night fell.
他最小的弟弟的声音从壁炉的另一边开始在寂静的夜晚在空气中歌唱。其他人一一占据空中，直到合唱团齐声歌唱。他们会这样唱几个小时，旋律接着旋律，欢乐又欢乐，直到最后一道苍白的光芒在地平线上消失，直到第一片乌云出现，夜幕降临。

He waited for some moments, listening, before he too took up the air with them. He was listening with pain of spirit to the overtone of weariness behind their frail fresh innocent voices. Even before they set out on life’s journey they seemed weary already of the way.
他等了一会儿，听着，然后也和他们一起进行了交谈。他带着精神上的痛苦聆听着他们脆弱而清新的声音背后隐含着的疲倦。甚至在他们踏上人生旅程之前，他们似乎就已经厌倦了。

He heard the choir of voices in the kitchen echoed and multiplied through an endless reverberation of the choirs of endless generations of children and heard in all the echoes an echo also of the recurring note of weariness and pain. All seemed weary of life even before entering upon it. And he remembered that Newman had heard this note also in the broken lines of Virgil, GIVING UTTERANCE, LIKE THE VOICE OF NATURE HERSELF, TO THAT PAIN AND WEARINESS YET HOPE OF BETTER THINGS WHICH HAS BEEN THE EXPERIENCE OF HER CHILDREN IN EVERY TIME.
他听到厨房里的合唱团的声音在无数代孩子们的合唱团的无尽回响中回响并倍增，在所有的回声中也听到了疲倦和痛苦的反复出现的回声。甚至在开始生活之前，所有人似乎都已经厌倦了生活。他记得纽曼也在维吉尔的断断续续的诗句中听到了这个音符，就像大自然本身的声音一样，表达了她的孩子们每次经历的痛苦和疲倦，但又希望有更好的事情。

*****

He could wait no longer.
他不能再等了。

From the door of Byron’s public-house to the gate of Clontarf Chapel, from the gate of Clontail Chapel to the door of Byron’s public-house and then back again to the chapel and then back again to the publichouse he had paced slowly at first, planting his steps scrupulously in the spaces of the patchwork of the footpath, then timing their fall to the fall of verses. A full hour had passed since his father had gone in with Dan Crosby, the tutor, to find out for him something about the university. For a full hour he had paced up and down, waiting: but he could wait no longer.
从拜伦酒馆门口到克朗塔夫礼拜堂门口，从克朗泰尔礼拜堂门口到拜伦酒馆门口，然后又回到礼拜堂，再回到他一开始缓慢踱步的酒馆，他小心翼翼地把脚步踩在小路拼凑而成的空间里，然后根据诗句的落下来计时。自从他父亲和导师丹·克罗斯比一起去帮他了解大学的情况以来，已经过去了整整一个小时。整整一个小时，他来回踱步，等待着：但他不能再等了。

He set off abruptly for the Bull, walking rapidly lest his father’s shrill whistle might call him back; and in a few moments he had rounded the curve at the police barrack and was safe.
他突然向公牛出发，走得很快，生怕父亲尖利的口哨把他叫回来。不一会儿，他就绕过了警察局的拐角，安全了。

Yes, his mother was hostile to the idea, as he had read from her listless silence. Yet her mistrust pricked him more keenly than his father’s pride and he thought coldly how he had watched the faith which was fading down in his soul ageing and strengthening in her eyes. A dim antagonism gathered force within him and darkened his mind as a cloud against her disloyalty and when it passed, cloud-like, leaving his mind serene and dutiful towards her again, he was made aware dimly and without regret of a first noiseless sundering of their lives.
是的，他的母亲对这个想法持敌意，正如他从她无精打采的沉默中看出的那样。然而，她的不信任比他父亲的骄傲更刺痛他，他冷冷地想，他是如何看着自己灵魂中的信仰日渐衰落，却在她眼中变得更加坚强。一种隐约的敌意在他内心聚集起来，使他的心灵变得黑暗，就像一片乌云，反对她的不忠，当它像乌云一样过去，让他的心灵再次平静，对她尽职尽责，他隐约地、毫无遗憾地意识到，与她的第一次无声的分离。他们的生活。

The university! So he had passed beyond the challenge of the sentries who had stood as guardians of his boyhood and had sought to keep him among them that he might be subject to them and serve their ends. Pride after satisfaction uplifted him like long slow waves. The end he had been born to serve yet did not see had led him to escape by an unseen path and now it beckoned to him once more and a new adventure was about to be opened to him. It seemed to him that he heard notes of fitful music leaping upwards a tone and downwards a diminished fourth, upwards a tone and downwards a major third, like triple-branching flames leaping fitfully, flame after flame, out of a midnight wood. It was an elfin prelude, endless and formless; and, as it grew wilder and faster, the flames leaping out of time, he seemed to hear from under the boughs and grasses wild creatures racing, their feet pattering like rain upon the leaves. Their feet passed in pattering tumult over his mind, the feet of hares and rabbits, the feet of harts and hinds and antelopes, until he heard them no more and remembered only a proud cadence from Newman:
大学！因此，他超越了哨兵的挑战，这些哨兵曾是他童年的守护者，并试图将他留在他们中间，以便他可以服从他们并为他们服务。满足之后的骄傲像长长的缓慢波浪一样使他振奋。生来侍奉却未曾预见的结局，让他走上了一条看不见的路，而现在，它再次向他招手，新的冒险即将向他开启。在他看来，他听到断断续续的音乐音符，向上跳动一个音调，向下跳动减四度，向上跳动一个音调，向下跳动大三度，就像午夜树林中断断续续地跳动的三枝火焰，一团又一团火焰。这是一首精灵般的前奏，无尽而无形。随着它变得越来越狂野、越来越快，火焰从时间中跃出，他似乎听到树枝和草丛下有野生动物在奔跑，它们的脚步像雨打在树叶上一样啪嗒啪嗒。它们的脚步声在他的脑海中敲打着，野兔和家兔的脚步声，雄鹿、母鹿和羚羊的脚步声，直到他再也听不到它们的声音，只记得纽曼骄傲的节奏：

—Whose feet are as the feet of harts and underneath the everlasting arms.
——他们的脚如同雄鹿的脚，在永恒的臂膀之下。

The pride of that dim image brought back to his mind the dignity of the office he had refused. All through his boyhood he had mused upon that which he had so often thought to be his destiny and when the moment had come for him to obey the call he had turned aside, obeying a wayward instinct. Now time lay between: the oils of ordination would never anoint his body. He had refused. Why?
那个模糊的形象所带来的自豪感让他回想起他曾拒绝的职位的尊严。在他的整个童年时期，他一直在沉思他经常认为是他的命运的事情，当他听从召唤的时刻到来时，他转过身去，服从一种任性的本能。现在时间已经过去了：授圣之油永远不会涂在他的身上。他拒绝了。为什么？

He turned seaward from the road at Dollymount and as he passed on to the thin wooden bridge he felt the planks shaking with the tramp of heavily shod feet. A squad of christian brothers was on its way back from the Bull and had begun to pass, two by two, across the bridge. Soon the whole bridge was trembling and resounding. The uncouth faces passed him two by two, stained yellow or red or livid by the sea, and, as he strove to look at them with ease and indifference, a faint stain of personal shame and commiseration rose to his own face. Angry with himself he tried to hide his face from their eyes by gazing down sideways into the shallow swirling water under the bridge but he still saw a reflection therein of their top-heavy silk hats and humble tape-like collars and loosely-hanging clerical clothes.
他从多利山的公路转向大海，当他走向那座薄木桥时，他感觉到木板随着沉重的脚步声而颤抖。一队基督教兄弟正在从公牛回来的路上，开始两个两个地过桥。很快，整座桥都颤抖起来，发出响亮的声音。那些粗鲁的面孔两两从他身边走过，被海水染成黄色、红色或青色，当他努力轻松而冷漠地看着他们时，他自己的脸上浮现出一丝个人羞耻和同情的痕迹。他对自己很生气，试图通过侧身凝视桥下浅浅的漩涡水域来隐藏自己的脸，但他仍然看到他们头重脚轻的丝质帽子和简陋的带子领子和松散悬挂的牧师衣服。

—Brother Hickey.
——希基弟兄。

Brother Quaid.
奎德兄弟。

Brother MacArdle.
麦克阿德尔弟兄。

Brother Keogh.—
基奥弟兄。——

Their piety would be like their names, like their faces, like their clothes, and it was idle for him to tell himself that their humble and contrite hearts, it might be, paid a far richer tribute of devotion than his had ever been, a gift tenfold more acceptable than his elaborate adoration. It was idle for him to move himself to be generous towards them, to tell himself that if he ever came to their gates, stripped of his pride, beaten and in beggar’s weeds, that they would be generous towards him, loving him as themselves. Idle and embittering, finally, to argue, against his own dispassionate certitude, that the commandment of love bade us not to love our neighbour as ourselves with the same amount and intensity of love but to love him as ourselves with the same kind of love.
他们的虔诚就像他们的名字，像他们的脸，像他们的衣服，他告诉自己，他们谦卑和悔悟的心可能比他以前付出了更丰富的奉献，这对他来说是徒劳的。这份礼物比他精心的崇拜更容易接受十倍。对他来说，主动对他们慷慨，告诉自己，如果他来到他们的门口，被剥夺了骄傲，被殴打，在乞丐的草丛中，他们会对他慷慨，爱他就像爱自己一样，这是毫无意义的。最后，他闲散而痛苦地反驳了他自己冷静的确信，即爱的诫命要求我们不要以同样数量和强度的爱来爱我们的邻居，而是要以同样的爱来爱他如我们自己。

He drew forth a phrase from his treasure and spoke it softly to himself:
他从宝物中取出一句话，轻声自言自语道：

—A day of dappled seaborne clouds.
——海上云朵斑驳的一天。

The phrase and the day and the scene harmonized in a chord. Words. Was it their colours? He allowed them to glow and fade, hue after hue: sunrise gold, the russet and green of apple orchards, azure of waves, the grey-fringed fleece of clouds. No, it was not their colours: it was the poise and balance of the period itself. Did he then love the rhythmic rise and fall of words better than their associations of legend and colour? Or was it that, being as weak of sight as he was shy of mind, he drew less pleasure from the reflection of the glowing sensible world through the prism of a language many-coloured and richly storied than from the contemplation of an inner world of individual emotions mirrored perfectly in a lucid supple periodic prose?
这句话、那一天、那场景，和谐地融为一体。字。这是他们的颜色吗？他让它们发光或褪色，呈现出一种又一种的色调：日出时的金色、苹果园的赤褐色和绿色、蔚蓝的波浪、灰色流苏的云朵。不，这不是他们的肤色：而是这个时期本身的平静和平衡。那么，他是否更喜欢文字有节奏的升降，而不是文字与传说和色彩的关联？或者说，由于他视力不好，头脑也害羞，所以他从通过色彩斑斓、故事丰富的语言棱镜反射出的光辉的感性世界中获得的乐趣，不如从对内心世界的沉思中获得的乐趣。个人情感完美地反映在清晰柔和的周期性散文中？

He passed from the trembling bridge on to firm land again. At that instant, as it seemed to him, the air was chilled and, looking askance towards the water, he saw a flying squall darkening and crisping suddenly the tide. A faint click at his heart, a faint throb in his throat told him once more of how his flesh dreaded the cold infrahuman odour of the sea; yet he did not strike across the downs on his left but held straight on along the spine of rocks that pointed against the river’s mouth.
他从颤抖的桥上再次踏上坚实的土地。就在那一瞬间，他觉得空气变冷了，他斜眼看向水面，看到一场狂风骤然使潮水变暗、变脆。他的心脏发出微弱的喀哒声，喉咙里有微弱的抽动，再次告诉他，他的肉体是多么害怕大海那冰冷的、非人类的气味；但他并没有越过左边的丘陵，而是沿着指向河口的岩石脊直走。

A veiled sunlight lit up faintly the grey sheet of water where the river was embayed. In the distance along the course of the slow-flowing Liffey slender masts flecked the sky and, more distant still, the dim fabric of the city lay prone in haze. Like a scene on some vague arras, old as man’s weariness, the image of the seventh city of christendom was visible to him across the timeless air, no older nor more weary nor less patient of subjection than in the days of the thingmote.
朦胧的阳光隐隐约约地照亮了河流所在的灰色水面。远处，沿着利菲河缓慢流动的河道，细长的桅杆点缀着天空，更远的地方，城市的昏暗结构躺在薄雾中。就像一些模糊的阿拉斯上的场景一样，古老如人类的疲倦，基督教第七城的形象在永恒的空气中对他可见，与事物的时代相比，它并不古老，更疲倦，也没有更缺乏屈服的耐心。

Disheartened, he raised his eyes towards the slow-drifting clouds, dappled and seaborne. They were voyaging across the deserts of the sky, a host of nomads on the march, voyaging high over Ireland, westward bound. The Europe they had come from lay out there beyond the Irish Sea, Europe of strange tongues and valleyed and woodbegirt and citadelled and of entrenched and marshalled races. He heard a confused music within him as of memories and names which he was almost conscious of but could not capture even for an instant; then the music seemed to recede, to recede, to recede, and from each receding trail of nebulous music there fell always one longdrawn calling note, piercing like a star the dusk of silence. Again! Again! Again! A voice from beyond the world was calling.
他沮丧地抬起眼睛，看向缓缓飘动的斑驳云彩。他们航行在天空的沙漠中，一群游牧民族在行军，航行在爱尔兰的高空，向西行进。他们来自的欧洲就在爱尔兰海的彼岸，有着陌生的语言、山谷、森林和城堡的欧洲，以及根深蒂固和集结的种族的欧洲。他听到自己内心有一种混乱的音乐，仿佛是关于记忆和名字的音乐，他几乎意识到了这些，但一瞬间却无法捕捉到。然后音乐似乎渐渐退去，退去，退去，从每一条模糊的音乐的退去轨迹中，总会落下一个漫长的呼唤声，像一颗星星一样刺穿寂静的黄昏。再次！再次！再次！一个来自世界之外的声音在呼唤。

—Hello, Stephanos!
——你好，斯蒂芬诺斯！

—Here comes The Dedalus!
——迪达勒斯来了！

—Ao!... Eh, give it over, Dwyer, I’m telling you, or I’ll give you a stuff in the kisser for yourself... Ao!
——啊！……呃，把它交出来，德怀尔，我告诉你，否则我就给你一个接吻器里的东西……啊！

—Good man, Towser! Duck him!
——好人，托瑟！闪开他！

—Come along, Dedalus! Bous Stephanoumenos! Bous Stephaneforos!
——来吧，迪达勒斯！布斯·斯蒂芬诺梅诺斯！布斯·史蒂芬福罗斯！

—Duck him! Guzzle him now, Towser!
——闪开他！现在就让他狂饮吧，托瑟！

—Help! Help!... Ao!
-帮助！救命啊！...噢！

He recognized their speech collectively before he distinguished their faces. The mere sight of that medley of wet nakedness chilled him to the bone. Their bodies, corpse-white or suffused with a pallid golden light or rawly tanned by the sun, gleamed with the wet of the sea. Their diving-stone, poised on its rude supports and rocking under their plunges, and the rough-hewn stones of the sloping breakwater over which they scrambled in their horseplay gleamed with cold wet lustre. The towels with which they smacked their bodies were heavy with cold seawater; and drenched with cold brine was their matted hair.
他先认出了他们的言语，然后才辨别出他们的面孔。光是看到那混杂的湿漉漉的裸体就让他感到彻骨的寒冷。他们的身体或尸白，或泛着苍白的金光，或被太阳晒得黝黑，在海水的湿润下闪闪发光。他们的跳水石在简陋的支撑物上保持着平衡，在他们的跳水下摇晃着，而他们在嬉戏中攀爬的倾斜防波堤上的粗糙石头闪烁着寒冷潮湿的光泽。他们拍打身体的毛巾沾满了冰冷的海水。他们乱七八糟的头发都被冷盐水浸湿了。

He stood still in deference to their calls and parried their banter with easy words. How characterless they looked: Shuley without his deep unbuttoned collar, Ennis without his scarlet belt with the snaky clasp, and Connolly without his Norfolk coat with the flapless side-pockets! It was a pain to see them, and a sword-like pain to see the signs of adolescence that made repellent their pitiable nakedness. Perhaps they had taken refuge in number and noise from the secret dread in their souls. But he, apart from them and in silence, remembered in what dread he stood of the mystery of his own body.
他一动不动地站着，听从他们的呼唤，并用轻松的话语来回避他们的玩笑。他们看起来多么没有特色：舒利没有敞开的深领子，恩尼斯没有带蛇形扣的猩红色腰带，康诺利没有带无翻边口袋的诺福克外套！看到他们是一种痛苦，看到青春期的迹象是一种剑般的痛苦，他们厌恶他们可怜的赤身裸体。也许他们在人数和噪音中寻求庇护，以逃避灵魂中秘密的恐惧。但他在远离他们的地方，默默地想起了自己对自己身体之谜的恐惧。

—Stephanos Dedalos! Bous Stephanoumenos! Bous Stephaneforos!
——斯蒂芬诺斯·德达洛斯！布斯·斯蒂芬诺梅诺斯！布斯·史蒂芬福罗斯！

Their banter was not new to him and now it flattered his mild proud sovereignty. Now, as never before, his strange name seemed to him a prophecy. So timeless seemed the grey warm air, so fluid and impersonal his own mood, that all ages were as one to him. A moment before the ghost of the ancient kingdom of the Danes had looked forth through the vesture of the hazewrapped City. Now, at the name of the fabulous artificer, he seemed to hear the noise of dim waves and to see a winged form flying above the waves and slowly climbing the air. What did it mean? Was it a quaint device opening a page of some medieval book of prophecies and symbols, a hawk-like man flying sunward above the sea, a prophecy of the end he had been born to serve and had been following through the mists of childhood and boyhood, a symbol of the artist forging anew in his workshop out of the sluggish matter of the earth a new soaring impalpable imperishable being?
他们的玩笑对他来说并不新鲜，现在这让他温和而自豪的主权得到了奉承。现在，前所未有地，他奇怪的名字对他来说就像是一个预言。灰色温暖的空气显得如此永恒，他自己的情绪如此流动和客观，所有年龄段的人对他来说都是一体的。片刻之前，古老丹麦王国的幽灵透过薄雾笼罩的城市外衣向外张望。现在，在这位神话般的技师的名字下，他似乎听到了暗淡海浪的声音，并看到了一个长着翅膀的身影在海浪之上飞翔，慢慢地攀爬在空中。这意味着什么？这是一个古雅的装置，打开了一本中世纪预言和符号书的一页，一个像鹰一样的人在海上向太阳飞翔，一个关于他生来服务并一直在童年和少年时代的迷雾中遵循的终结的预言，象征着艺术家在他的工作室中从地球上缓慢的物质中重新锻造出一个新的飞翔的、不可触摸的、不朽的存在？

His heart trembled; his breath came faster and a wild spirit passed over his limbs as though he was soaring sunward. His heart trembled in an ecstasy of fear and his soul was in flight. His soul was soaring in an air beyond the world and the body he knew was purified in a breath and delivered of incertitude and made radiant and commingled with the element of the spirit. An ecstasy of flight made radiant his eyes and wild his breath and tremulous and wild and radiant his windswept limbs.
他的心颤抖着；他的呼吸变得急促起来，一股狂野的气息掠过他的四肢，仿佛他正在向太阳翱翔。他的心在恐惧的狂喜中颤抖，他的灵魂在飞翔。他的灵魂在超越世界的空气中翱翔，他所知道的身体在呼吸中得到净化，摆脱了不确定性，变得容光焕发，与精神元素混合在一起。飞行的狂喜使他的眼睛容光焕发，呼吸狂野，他被风吹过的四肢颤抖、狂野、容光焕发。

—One! Two!... Look out!
-一！两个！...小心！

—Oh, Cripes, I’m drownded!
——哦，克里普斯，我淹死了！

—One! Two! Three and away!
-一！二！三又走了！

—The next! The next!
-下一个！下一个！

—One!... UK!
——一个！……英国！

—Stephaneforos!
——史蒂芬福罗斯！

His throat ached with a desire to cry aloud, the cry of a hawk or eagle on high, to cry piercingly of his deliverance to the winds. This was the call of life to his soul not the dull gross voice of the world of duties and despair, not the inhuman voice that had called him to the pale service of the altar. An instant of wild flight had delivered him and the cry of triumph which his lips withheld cleft his brain.
他的喉咙很痛，很想放声大哭，就像鹰在高处发出的叫声，为自己被风吹走而撕心裂肺地哭喊。这是生命对他灵魂的召唤，不是责任和绝望世界中沉闷粗俗的声音，也不是召唤他在祭坛上做苍白服务的非人声音。一阵疯狂的逃跑把他救了出来，他的嘴唇忍住了，胜利的呼喊撕裂了他的大脑。

—Stephaneforos!
——史蒂芬福罗斯！

What were they now but cerements shaken from the body of death—the fear he had walked in night and day, the incertitude that had ringed him round, the shame that had abased him within and without— cerements, the linens of the grave?
现在，它们不过是从死亡的尸体上摇下来的骨灰——他日日夜夜行走的恐惧，环绕着他的不确定性，让他内外都感到羞耻的骨灰——骨灰，坟墓的亚麻布？

His soul had arisen from the grave of boyhood, spurning her grave-clothes. Yes! Yes! Yes! He would create proudly out of the freedom and power of his soul, as the great artificer whose name he bore, a living thing, new and soaring and beautiful, impalpable, imperishable.
他的灵魂已经从童年的坟墓中升起，抛弃了她的裹尸布。是的！是的！是的！作为一位以他的名字命名的伟大工匠，他将自豪地从自己灵魂的自由和力量中创造出一种有生命的东西，新颖、翱翔、美丽、不可触摸、不朽。

He started up nervously from the stone-block for he could no longer quench the flame in his blood. He felt his cheeks aflame and his throat throbbing with song. There was a lust of wandering in his feet that burned to set out for the ends of the earth. On! On! his heart seemed to cry. Evening would deepen above the sea, night fall upon the plains, dawn glimmer before the wanderer and show him strange fields and hills and faces. Where?
他紧张地从石块上站起来，因为他再也无法熄灭血液中的火焰。他感到自己的脸颊在燃烧，喉咙因歌声而颤动。他的双脚充满了流浪的欲望，渴望出发去天涯海角。在！在！他的心似乎在哭泣。海面上的夜色会加深，夜幕降临在平原上，黎明在流浪者面前闪烁，向他展示陌生的田野、山丘和面孔。在哪里？

He looked northward towards Howth. The sea had fallen below the line of seawrack on the shallow side of the breakwater and already the tide was running out fast along the foreshore. Already one long oval bank of sand lay warm and dry amid the wavelets. Here and there warm isles of sand gleamed above the shallow tide and about the isles and around the long bank and amid the shallow currents of the beach were lightclad figures, wading and delving.
他向北看向霍斯。海水已经落到防波堤浅边的海残线以下，潮水已经沿着前滩快速退去。一片长长的椭圆形沙岸已经温暖干燥地躺在波浪之中。到处都是温暖的沙岛，在浅潮之上闪闪发光，在岛屿周围，在长长的河岸周围，在海滩的浅水流中，都有穿着轻薄衣服的人影，在涉水和探索。

In a few moments he was barefoot, his stockings folded in his pockets and his canvas shoes dangling by their knotted laces over his shoulders and, picking a pointed salt-eaten stick out of the jetsam among the rocks, he clambered down the slope of the breakwater.
过了一会儿，他就赤着脚了，袜子折在口袋里，帆布鞋打结的鞋带挂在肩上，从岩石间的废墟中捡起一根尖尖的、吃过盐的棍子，爬下山坡。防波堤。

There was a long rivulet in the strand and, as he waded slowly up its course, he wondered at the endless drift of seaweed. Emerald and black and russet and olive, it moved beneath the current, swaying and turning. The water of the rivulet was dark with endless drift and mirrored the high-drifting clouds. The clouds were drifting above him silently and silently the seatangle was drifting below him and the grey warm air was still and a new wild life was singing in his veins.
河滩上有一条长长的小溪，当他慢慢地涉水而上时，他对无尽的海藻感到好奇。它呈翡翠色、黑色、赤褐色和橄榄色，在水流下移动，摇摆和旋转。小溪的水色漆黑，无尽的漂流，倒映着高高飘浮的云彩。云朵静静地飘过他的头顶，座角静静地飘过他的下面，灰色温暖的空气静止不动，一种新的野生生命在他的血管里歌唱。

Where was his boyhood now? Where was the soul that had hung back from her destiny, to brood alone upon the shame of her wounds and in her house of squalor and subterfuge to queen it in faded cerements and in wreaths that withered at the touch? Or where was he?
他的童年现在在哪里？那个从她的命运中退缩的灵魂在哪里，独自沉思着她受伤的耻辱，在她肮脏和诡计的房子里，用褪色的水泥和一碰就枯萎的花环来统治它？或者他在哪里？

He was alone. He was unheeded, happy and near to the wild heart of life. He was alone and young and wilful and wildhearted, alone amid a waste of wild air and brackish waters and the sea-harvest of shells and tangle and veiled grey sunlight and gayclad lightclad figures of children and girls and voices childish and girlish in the air.
他独自一人。他不被人注意，快乐，接近生活的狂野之心。他独自一人，年轻，任性，狂野，独自一人置身于狂野的空气、微咸的海水、海里收获的贝壳和纠结的荒野、灰色的阳光、穿着华丽的儿童和女孩的身影以及空气中幼稚和少女般的声音之中。

A girl stood before him in midstream, alone and still, gazing out to sea. She seemed like one whom magic had changed into the likeness of a strange and beautiful seabird. Her long slender bare legs were delicate as a crane’s and pure save where an emerald trail of seaweed had fashioned itself as a sign upon the flesh. Her thighs, fuller and soft-hued as ivory, were bared almost to the hips, where the white fringes of her drawers were like feathering of soft white down. Her slate-blue skirts were kilted boldly about her waist and dovetailed behind her. Her bosom was as a bird’s, soft and slight, slight and soft as the breast of some dark-plumaged dove. But her long fair hair was girlish: and girlish, and touched with the wonder of mortal beauty, her face.
一个女孩站在他面前的河中央，孤独而安静，凝视着大海。她就像是被魔法变成了一只奇异而美丽的海鸟。她那双修长的裸露双腿像鹤的双腿一样纤细而纯粹，除了一条翠绿色的海藻痕迹在肉体上形成了一个标志。她的大腿像象牙一样丰满、颜色柔和，几乎裸露在臀部，抽屉的白色边缘就像柔软的白色羽绒。她的石蓝色裙子大胆地围在腰间，并与身后相吻合。她的胸膛像鸟儿的胸膛，柔软而纤细，纤细而柔软，就像一只深色羽毛的鸽子的胸脯。但她金色的长发却充满了少女般的气质：她的脸庞充满了凡人般美丽的奇迹。

She was alone and still, gazing out to sea; and when she felt his presence and the worship of his eyes her eyes turned to him in quiet sufferance of his gaze, without shame or wantonness. Long, long she suffered his gaze and then quietly withdrew her eyes from his and bent them towards the stream, gently stirring the water with her foot hither and thither. The first faint noise of gently moving water broke the silence, low and faint and whispering, faint as the bells of sleep; hither and thither, hither and thither; and a faint flame trembled on her cheek.
她独自一人，一动不动，凝视着大海。当她感觉到他的存在和他目光的崇拜时，她的眼睛转向他，安静地忍受着他的目光，没有羞耻或肆意。她忍受了他的注视良久，然后悄悄地把目光从他身上移开，将目光转向溪流，用脚轻轻地搅动着溪水。水流轻轻流动的第一声微弱声音打破了寂静，低沉、微弱、低语，微弱得像睡眠的钟声。这里和那里，这里和那里；她的脸颊上闪烁着微弱的火焰。

—Heavenly God! cried Stephen’s soul, in an outburst of profane joy.
——天上的神啊！斯蒂芬的灵魂在亵渎的喜悦中喊道。

He turned away from her suddenly and set off across the strand. His cheeks were aflame; his body was aglow; his limbs were trembling. On and on and on and on he strode, far out over the sands, singing wildly to the sea, crying to greet the advent of the life that had cried to him.
他突然转身离开她，跨过海滩。他的脸颊像火烧一样；他的身体闪闪发光；他的四肢在颤抖。他不停地大步走着，越过沙滩，对着大海疯狂地歌唱，哭泣着迎接向他哭泣的生命的到来。

Her image had passed into his soul for ever and no word had broken the holy silence of his ecstasy. Her eyes had called him and his soul had leaped at the call. To live, to err, to fall, to triumph, to recreate life out of life! A wild angel had appeared to him, the angel of mortal youth and beauty, an envoy from the fair courts of life, to throw open before him in an instant of ecstasy the gates of all the ways of error and glory. On and on and on and on!
她的形象永远地融入了他的灵魂，任何言语都无法打破他狂喜的神圣沉默。她的眼睛呼唤着他，他的灵魂也随着呼唤而跳跃。生活，犯错，跌倒，胜利，从生活中重新创造生活！一位狂野的天使出现在他面前，一位青春美丽的凡人天使，一位来自生命公平宫廷的使者，在狂喜的一瞬间，在他面前打开了所有错误和荣耀之路的大门。不断，不断，不断！

He halted suddenly and heard his heart in the silence. How far had he walked? What hour was it?
他突然停了下来，在寂静中听到了自己的心跳声。他走了多远？当时是几点钟？

There was no human figure near him nor any sound borne to him over the air. But the tide was near the turn and already the day was on the wane. He turned landward and ran towards the shore and, running up the sloping beach, reckless of the sharp shingle, found a sandy nook amid a ring of tufted sandknolls and lay down there that the peace and silence of the evening might still the riot of his blood.
他附近没有人影，空气中也没有传来任何声音。但潮水即将转向，天色已经开始落下。他转向陆地，跑向海岸，不顾锋利的鹅卵石，跑上倾斜的海滩，在一圈丛生的沙丘中找到了一个沙角，躺在那里，以便晚上的和平与寂静可以平息他的骚乱。血。

He felt above him the vast indifferent dome and the calm processes of the heavenly bodies; and the earth beneath him, the earth that had borne him, had taken him to her breast.
他感到头顶上是巨大的、冷漠的穹顶和平静的天体运行。他脚下的大地，这片曾经孕育过他的大地，把他抱进了她的怀里。

He closed his eyes in the languor of sleep. His eyelids trembled as if they felt the vast cyclic movement of the earth and her watchers, trembled as if they felt the strange light of some new world. His soul was swooning into some new world, fantastic, dim, uncertain as under sea, traversed by cloudy shapes and beings. A world, a glimmer or a flower? Glimmering and trembling, trembling and unfolding, a breaking light, an opening flower, it spread in endless succession to itself, breaking in full crimson and unfolding and fading to palest rose, leaf by leaf and wave of light by wave of light, flooding all the heavens with its soft flushes, every flush deeper than the other.
他在昏昏欲睡中闭上了眼睛。他的眼睑颤抖着，仿佛感受到了大地和她的观察者巨大的循环运动，颤抖着，仿佛感受到了某个新世界的奇异光芒。他的灵魂正迷失在某个新的世界里，这个世界奇幻、昏暗、不确定，就像海底一样，被云雾缭绕的形状和生物所穿越。一个世界、一丝微光还是一朵花？闪烁而颤抖，颤抖而展开，一道破碎的光芒，一朵开放的花朵，它以无尽的连续性向自身蔓延，破裂为深红色，展开并褪色为苍白的玫瑰色，一叶又一叶，一波又一波的光波，淹没了一切天空泛着柔和的红晕，每一次的红晕都比另一次更深。

Evening had fallen when he woke and the sand and arid grasses of his bed glowed no longer. He rose slowly and, recalling the rapture of his sleep, sighed at its joy.
当他醒来时，夜幕已经降临，床上的沙子和干草不再发光。他慢慢地站起来，回想起睡梦中的狂喜，为其中的喜悦叹了口气。

He climbed to the crest of the sandhill and gazed about him. Evening had fallen. A rim of the young moon cleft the pale waste of skyline, the rim of a silver hoop embedded in grey sand; and the tide was flowing in fast to the land with a low whisper of her waves, islanding a few last figures in distant pools.
他爬上沙丘顶，环顾四周。夜幕降临了。一轮新月的边缘划破了苍白荒凉的天际线，银箍的边缘嵌在灰色的沙子里；潮水正快速地涌向陆地，波浪发出低沉的低语，在远处的水池中留下了最后几个人影。

Chapter 5
第5章

He drained his third cup of watery tea to the dregs and set to chewing the crusts of fried bread that were scattered near him, staring into the dark pool of the jar. The yellow dripping had been scooped out like a boghole and the pool under it brought back to his memory the dark turf-coloured water of the bath in Clongowes. The box of pawn tickets at his elbow had just been rifled and he took up idly one after another in his greasy fingers the blue and white dockets, scrawled and sanded and creased and bearing the name of the pledger as Daly or MacEvoy.
他把第三杯水茶喝干，然后开始咀嚼散落在他身边的炸面包皮，眼睛盯着罐子里漆黑的水池。黄色的水滴像一个沼泽地一样被舀了出来，下面的水池让他想起了克朗戈斯浴室里深草绿色的水。他手肘边的那盒当票刚刚被翻开，他用油腻的手指懒洋洋地拿起一张又一张蓝色和白色的票据，上面潦草地写着，用砂纸打磨过，有折痕，上面写着质押者的名字：达利或麦克沃伊。

1 Pair Buskins.
1 双布斯金斯。

1 D. Coat.
1 D.外套。

3 Articles and White.
3 条和白。

1 Man’s Pants.
1 条男裤。

Then he put them aside and gazed thoughtfully at the lid of the box, speckled with louse marks, and asked vaguely:
然后他将它们放在一边，若有所思地看着布满虱子痕迹的盒子盖子，含糊地问道：

—How much is the clock fast now?
——现在时钟快了多少？

His mother straightened the battered alarm clock that was lying on its side in the middle of the mantelpiece until its dial showed a quarter to twelve and then laid it once more on its side.
他母亲把壁炉架中央那只侧躺着的破旧闹钟扶正，直到表盘显示十二点一刻，然后又把它侧躺起来。

—An hour and twenty-five minutes, she said. The right time now is twenty past ten. The dear knows you might try to be in time for your lectures.
——一小时二十五分钟，她说。现在正确的时间是十点二十分。亲爱的知道你可能会尽力准时参加讲座。

—Fill out the place for me to wash, said Stephen.
——填好我洗澡的地方，史蒂芬说。

—Katey, fill out the place for Stephen to wash.
——凯蒂，填好斯蒂芬洗澡的地方。

—Boody, fill out the place for Stephen to wash.
——布迪，填好斯蒂芬洗澡的地方。

—I can’t, I’m going for blue. Fill it out, you, Maggy.
——我不能，我要蓝色。填写它，你，玛吉。

When the enamelled basin had been fitted into the well of the sink and the old washing glove flung on the side of it he allowed his mother to scrub his neck and root into the folds of his ears and into the interstices at the wings of his nose.
当搪瓷盆装进水池的井里，旧的洗衣手套扔到旁边时，他让母亲擦洗他的脖子和根部，深入耳朵的褶皱和鼻翼的缝隙。 。

—Well, it’s a poor case, she said, when a university student is so dirty that his mother has to wash him.
——嗯，这是一个很糟糕的例子，她说，一个大学生太脏了，他的妈妈不得不给他洗澡。

—But it gives you pleasure, said Stephen calmly.
——但这会给你带来快乐，斯蒂芬平静地说。

An ear-splitting whistle was heard from upstairs and his mother thrust a damp overall into his hands, saying:
楼上传来一阵震耳欲聋的口哨声，他母亲把一件湿漉漉的工作服塞到他手里，说道：

—Dry yourself and hurry out for the love of goodness.
——擦干身体，为了善良的爱赶快出去。

A second shrill whistle, prolonged angrily, brought one of the girls to the foot of the staircase.
第二声尖锐的口哨声，愤怒地拉长了声音，把其中一个女孩带到了楼梯脚下。

—Yes, father?
——是吗，父亲？

—Is your lazy bitch of a brother gone out yet?
——你那个懒惰的弟弟出去了吗？

—Yes, father.
——是的，父亲。

—Sure?
-当然？

—Yes, father.
——是的，父亲。

—Hm!
——嗯！

The girl came back, making signs to him to be quick and go out quietly by the back. Stephen laughed and said:
女孩回来了，示意他快点，从后面悄悄出去。斯蒂芬笑道：

—He has a curious idea of genders if he thinks a bitch is masculine.
——如果他认为一个母狗是男性的话，他对性别就有一种奇怪的想法。

—Ah, it’s a scandalous shame for you, Stephen, said his mother, and you’ll live to rue the day you set your foot in that place. I know how it has changed you.
——啊，史蒂芬，这对你来说是一种耻辱，他的母亲说，当你踏入那个地方的那一天，你会后悔的。我知道它如何改变了你。

—Good morning, everybody, said Stephen, smiling and kissing the tips of his fingers in adieu.
——大家早上好，斯蒂芬说，微笑着亲吻他的指尖告别。

The lane behind the terrace was waterlogged and as he went down it slowly, choosing his steps amid heaps of wet rubbish, he heard a mad nun screeching in the nuns’ madhouse beyond the wall.
露台后面的小巷被水淹了，当他在潮湿的垃圾堆中选择脚步缓慢地走下去时，他听到墙外的修女疯人院里有一个疯狂的修女在尖叫。

—Jesus! O Jesus! Jesus!
-耶稣！耶稣啊！耶稣！

He shook the sound out of his ears by an angry toss of his head and hurried on, stumbling through the mouldering offal, his heart already bitten by an ache of loathing and bitterness. His father’s whistle, his mother’s mutterings, the screech of an unseen maniac were to him now so many voices offending and threatening to humble the pride of his youth. He drove their echoes even out of his heart with an execration; but, as he walked down the avenue and felt the grey morning light falling about him through the dripping trees and smelt the strange wild smell of the wet leaves and bark, his soul was loosed of her miseries.
他愤怒地一甩头，把声音从耳边摇了出来，然后匆匆赶路，跌跌撞撞地穿过腐烂的内脏，他的心已经被厌恶和苦涩的疼痛所刺痛。他父亲的口哨声、母亲的嘀咕声、一个看不见的疯子的尖叫声，现在对他来说，都是冒犯和威胁他年轻时的骄傲的声音。他咒骂着，甚至把它们的回声从心里驱逐出去。但是，当他沿着林荫大道走下去，感觉到灰色的晨光透过滴着水的树木洒在他身上，闻到潮湿的树叶和树皮散发出的奇怪的野味时，他的灵魂就摆脱了她的痛苦。

The rain-laden trees of the avenue evoked in him, as always, memories of the girls and women in the plays of Gerhart Hauptmann; and the memory of their pale sorrows and the fragrance falling from the wet branches mingled in a mood of quiet joy. His morning walk across the city had begun, and he foreknew that as he passed the sloblands of Fairview he would think of the cloistral silver-veined prose of Newman; that as he walked along the North Strand Road, glancing idly at the windows of the provision shops, he would recall the dark humour of Guido Cavalcanti and smile; that as he went by Baird’s stonecutting works in Talbot Place the spirit of Ibsen would blow through him like a keen wind, a spirit of wayward boyish beauty; and that passing a grimy marine dealer’s shop beyond the Liffey he would repeat the song by Ben Jonson which begins:
大道上满是雨水的树木一如既往地唤起了他对格哈特·豪普特曼戏剧中女孩和女人的回忆；他们苍白的悲伤的记忆和从潮湿的树枝上飘落的芬芳混合在一种安静的欢乐气氛中。他早上开始步行穿过城市，他预知当他经过费尔维尤的邋遢之地时，他会想起纽曼的隐世银脉散文；当他沿着北岸路漫步时，懒洋洋地瞥一眼杂货店的橱窗，他会想起吉多·卡瓦尔康蒂的黑色幽默，并微笑；当他经过贝尔德在塔尔博特广场的石刻工场时，易卜生的精神会像一阵凛冽的风一样吹过他，一种任性的孩子气的美感；当经过利菲河对岸一家肮脏的海事经销商商店时，他会重复本·琼森的歌曲，开头是：

I was not wearier where I lay.
我躺在那里并没有感到疲倦。

His mind when wearied of its search for the essence of beauty amid the spectral words of Aristotle or Aquinas turned often for its pleasure to the dainty songs of the Elizabethans. His mind, in the vesture of a doubting monk, stood often in shadow under the windows of that age, to hear the grave and mocking music of the lutenists or the frank laughter of waist-coateers until a laugh too low, a phrase, tarnished by time, of chambering and false honour stung his monkish pride and drove him on from his lurking-place.
当他厌倦了在亚里士多德或阿奎那的幽灵般的话语中寻找美的本质时，他的心灵常常转向伊丽莎白时代的优美歌曲来寻求乐趣。他的思想，穿着怀疑僧侣的外衣，经常站在那个时代的窗户下的阴影里，听鲁特琴手的严肃和嘲弄的音乐或穿马甲的坦率的笑声，直到笑声太低，一个短语，失去了光泽。随着时间的推移，内室和虚伪的荣誉刺痛了他僧侣般的自尊心，驱使他离开了潜伏的地方。

The lore which he was believed to pass his days brooding upon so that it had rapt him from the companionship of youth was only a garner of slender sentences from Aristotle’s poetics and psychology and a SYNOPSIS PHILOSOPHIAE SCHOLASTICAE AD MENTEM DIVI THOMAE. His thinking was a dusk of doubt and self-mistrust, lit up at moments by the lightnings of intuition, but lightnings of so clear a splendour that in those moments the world perished about his feet as if it had been fire-consumed; and thereafter his tongue grew heavy and he met the eyes of others with unanswering eyes, for he felt that the spirit of beauty had folded him round like a mantle and that in revery at least he had been acquainted with nobility. But when this brief pride of silence upheld him no longer he was glad to find himself still in the midst of common lives, passing on his way amid the squalor and noise and sloth of the city fearlessly and with a light heart.
据信，他终日沉思的传说，使他从青年时期的陪伴中脱身，只不过是亚里士多德诗学和心理学中的简短句子以及《托马斯的哲学概要》的集合。他的思想是怀疑和自我不信任的黄昏，有时被直觉的闪电照亮，但闪电是如此清晰辉煌，以至于在那些时刻，世界在他脚下毁灭，仿佛被火烧毁了；此后，他的舌头变得沉重，他用不回应的目光迎接别人的目光，因为他觉得美的精神像斗篷一样将他包裹起来，至少在沉思中他认识了高贵。但是，当这种短暂的沉默的骄傲不再支撑他时，他很高兴发现自己仍然处于平凡的生活之中，无畏地、轻松地在城市的肮脏、喧闹和懒惰中行走。

Near the hoardings on the canal he met the consumptive man with the doll’s face and the brimless hat coming towards him down the slope of the bridge with little steps, tightly buttoned into his chocolate overcoat, and holding his furled umbrella a span or two from him like a divining rod. It must be eleven, he thought, and peered into a dairy to see the time. The clock in the dairy told him that it was five minutes to five but, as he turned away, he heard a clock somewhere near him, but unseen, beating eleven strokes in swift precision. He laughed as he heard it for it made him think of McCann, and he saw him a squat figure in a shooting jacket and breeches and with a fair goatee, standing in the wind at Hopkins’ corner, and heard him say:
在运河的围板附近，他遇到了那个长着娃娃脸、戴着无边帽的肺痨男子，他沿着桥的斜坡，迈着小步向他走来，他的巧克力大衣扣子紧紧地扣着，手里拿着卷起的雨伞，离他一两跨。就像占卜棒一样。一定是十一点了，他想，然后往乳品店里看了看时间。牛奶店里的时钟告诉他，差五分钟就到了五点，但当他转身离开时，他听到附近有一个时钟，但看不见，正在快速精确地敲击十一下。他一听就笑了，因为这让他想起了麦肯，他看到麦肯身材矮胖，穿着射击夹克和马裤，留着漂亮的山羊胡子，站在霍普金斯街角的风中，听到他说：

—Dedalus, you’re an antisocial being, wrapped up in yourself. I’m not. I’m a democrat and I’ll work and act for social liberty and equality among all classes and sexes in the United States of the Europe of the future.
——德达勒斯，你是一个反社会的人，只顾自己。我不是。我是一名民主党人，我将为未来美国和欧洲各阶层和性别的社会自由和平等而努力和行动。

Eleven! Then he was late for that lecture too. What day of the week was it? He stopped at a newsagent’s to read the headline of a placard. Thursday. Ten to eleven, English; eleven to twelve, French; twelve to one, physics. He fancied to himself the English lecture and felt, even at that distance, restless and helpless. He saw the heads of his classmates meekly bent as they wrote in their notebooks the points they were bidden to note, nominal definitions, essential definitions and examples or dates of birth or death, chief works, a favourable and an unfavourable criticism side by side. His own head was unbent for his thoughts wandered abroad and whether he looked around the little class of students or out of the window across the desolate gardens of the green an odour assailed him of cheerless cellar-damp and decay. Another head than his, right before him in the first benches, was poised squarely above its bending fellows like the head of a priest appealing without humility to the tabernacle for the humble worshippers about him. Why was it that when he thought of Cranly he could never raise before his mind the entire image of his body but only the image of the head and face? Even now against the grey curtain of the morning he saw it before him like the phantom of a dream, the face of a severed head or death-mask, crowned on the brows by its stiff black upright hair as by an iron crown. It was a priest-like face, priest-like in its palor, in the wide winged nose, in the shadowings below the eyes and along the jaws, priest-like in the lips that were long and bloodless and faintly smiling; and Stephen, remembering swiftly how he had told Cranly of all the tumults and unrest and longings in his soul, day after day and night by night, only to be answered by his friend’s listening silence, would have told himself that it was the face of a guilty priest who heard confessions of those whom he had not power to absolve but that he felt again in memory the gaze of its dark womanish eyes.
十一！然后他那场讲座也迟到了。那是一周中的哪一天？他在一家报刊亭停下来读标语牌的标题。周四。十点到十一点，英语；十一点到十二点，法语；十二比一，物理。他心里想象着英语讲座，即使距离那么远，他也感到不安和无助。他看到同学们温顺地低着头，在笔记本上写着要求他们注意的要点，名义定义，基本定义和例子或出生或死亡日期，主要著作，并排写着有利和不利的批评。他自己的头没有低下，因为他的思绪在国外徘徊，无论他环顾一小群学生，还是望向窗外荒凉的绿色花园，一股令人不快的地窖潮湿和腐烂的气味向他袭来。另一个比他的头，就在他前面的第一排长凳上，正好摆在其他弯曲的人的上方，就像一个牧师的头，毫不谦卑地向他周围谦卑的崇拜者祈求圣体。为什么当他想到克兰利时，他的脑海中永远无法浮现出他身体的整个形象，而只能浮现出头部和脸部的形象？即使现在，在清晨的灰色窗帘下，他仍能看到它就在他面前，就像梦中的幻影一样，一张被砍下的头颅或死亡面具的脸，眉毛上覆盖着坚硬的黑色直立头发，就像戴着一顶铁王冠。 那是一张牧师般的脸，苍白的脸色、宽大的带翅膀的鼻子、眼睛下方和下巴的阴影都像牧师，嘴唇又长又毫无血色，带着淡淡的微笑，像牧师一样。史蒂芬很快想起他如何日复一日、夜复一夜地向克兰利讲述他灵魂中的所有骚动、不安和渴望，但得到的回应却是他朋友的沉默倾听，他会告诉自己，那是一张脸。一位有罪的牧师，听到了那些他无权赦免的人的忏悔，但他在记忆中再次感受到了那双黑女人般的眼睛的凝视。

Through this image he had a glimpse of a strange dark cavern of speculation but at once turned away from it, feeling that it was not yet the hour to enter it. But the nightshade of his friend’s listlessness seemed to be diffusing in the air around him a tenuous and deadly exhalation and He found himself glancing from one casual word to another on his right or left in stolid wonder that they had been so silently emptied of instantaneous sense until every mean shop legend bound his mind like the words of a spell and his soul shrivelled up sighing with age as he walked on in a lane among heaps of dead language. His own consciousness of language was ebbing from his brain and trickling into the very words themselves which set to band and disband themselves in wayward rhythms:
透过这个影像，他瞥见了一个奇怪的、黑暗的投机洞穴，但他立刻转过身去，觉得现在还不是进入的时候。但他朋友无精打采的茄属植物似乎在他周围的空气中弥漫着一种微弱而致命的气息，他发现自己冷漠地从一个不经意的词扫到左右两侧的另一个词，惊讶地发现它们已经悄无声息地失去了瞬间的感觉。直到每一个卑鄙的商店传说都像咒语一样束缚着他的心灵，当他走在死语言堆中的小巷时，他的灵魂随着年龄的增长而枯萎叹息。他自己的语言意识正在从他的大脑中消失，并渗入单词本身，这些单词以任性的节奏自行组合和解散：

The ivy whines upon the wall,
常春藤在墙上哀鸣，

And whines and twines upon the wall,
并在墙上发出哀鸣和缠绕，

The yellow ivy upon the wall,
墙上的黄色常春藤，

Ivy, ivy up the wall.
常春藤，墙上的常春藤。

Did anyone ever hear such drivel? Lord Almighty! Who ever heard of ivy whining on a wall? Yellow ivy; that was all right. Yellow ivory also. And what about ivory ivy?
有人听过这样的胡言乱语吗？万能的主啊！谁听说过常春藤在墙上哀鸣？黄色常春藤；没关系。黄象牙也。那么象牙常春藤呢？

The word now shone in his brain, clearer and brighter than any ivory sawn from the mottled tusks of elephants. IVORY, IVOIRE, AVORIO, EBUR. One of the first examples that he had learnt in Latin had run: INDIA MITTIT EBUR; and he recalled the shrewd northern face of the rector who had taught him to construe the Metamorphoses of Ovid in a courtly English, made whimsical by the mention of porkers and potsherds and chines of bacon. He had learnt what little he knew of the laws of Latin verse from a ragged book written by a Portuguese priest.
这个词现在在他的大脑中闪闪发光，比从斑驳的象牙上锯下来的任何象牙都更清晰、更明亮。象牙色、象牙色、AVORIO、EBUR。他用拉丁语学到的第一个例子是：INDIA MITTIT EBUR；他想起了教区长那张精明的北面面孔，教他用一种宫廷英语解释《奥维德变形记》，书中提到的猪肉、陶片和培根，让他变得异想天开。他从一位葡萄牙牧师写的一本破烂的书中学到了他对拉丁诗律的所知甚少。

Contrahit orator, variant in carmine vates.
Contrahit 演说家，胭脂红 vates 的变体。

The crises and victories and secessions in Roman history were handed on to him in the trite words IN TANTO DISCRIMINE and he had tried to peer into the social life of the city of cities through the words IMPLERE OLLAM DENARIORUM which the rector had rendered sonorously as the filling of a pot with denaries. The pages of his time-worn Horace never felt cold to the touch even when his own fingers were cold; they were human pages and fifty years before they had been turned by the human fingers of John Duncan Inverarity and by his brother, William Malcolm Inverarity. Yes, those were noble names on the dusky flyleaf and, even for so poor a Latinist as he, the dusky verses were as fragrant as though they had lain all those years in myrtle and lavender and vervain; but yet it wounded him to think that he would never be but a shy guest at the feast of the world’s culture and that the monkish learning, in terms of which he was striving to forge out an esthetic philosophy, was held no higher by the age he lived in than the subtle and curious jargons of heraldry and falconry.
罗马历史上的危机、胜利和分裂都是用“IN TANTO DISCRIMINE”这些陈词滥调的词语传递给他的，他试图通过“IMPLERE OLLAM DENARIORUM”这几个词来窥视城市之城的社会生活，校长将这句话铿锵有力地翻译为“城市之城”。罐子里装满了小东西。即使他自己的手指是冷的，他那经久不衰的贺拉斯的书页摸起来也从未感到冰冷。它们是人类的书页，五十年前，约翰·邓肯·因弗拉里蒂（John Duncan Inverarity）和他的兄弟威廉·马尔科姆·因弗拉里蒂（William Malcolm Inverarity）亲手翻阅了它们。是的，这些都是暗色蝇叶上高贵的名字，即使对于像他这样贫穷的拉丁学家来说，这些暗色诗句也同样芬芳，仿佛这些年来它们一直躺在香桃木、薰衣草和马鞭草中；但这些诗句仍然散发着芬芳的香气。然而，一想到自己永远只是世界文化盛宴上害羞的客人，而他努力打造审美哲学的僧侣学问，在这个时代并没有得到更高的地位，这让他很受伤。他生活在纹章学和猎鹰术的微妙而好奇的行话中。

The grey block of Trinity on his left, set heavily in the city’s ignorance like a dull stone set in a cumbrous ring, pulled his mind downward and while he was striving this way and that to free his feet from the fetters of the reformed conscience he came upon the droll statue of the national poet of Ireland.
他左边的三位一体的灰色街区，沉重地镶嵌在这座城市的无知之中，就像一块沉闷的石头镶嵌在一个笨重的环中，将他的思想向下拉，当他这样那样努力地使自己的脚摆脱改革良心的束缚时，他来到了爱尔兰民族诗人的滑稽雕像前。

He looked at it without anger; for, though sloth of the body and of the soul crept over it like unseen vermin, over the shuffling feet and up the folds of the cloak and around the servile head, it seemed humbly conscious of its indignity. It was a Firbolg in the borrowed cloak of a Milesian; and he thought of his friend Davin, the peasant student. It was a jesting name between them, but the young peasant bore with it lightly:
他看着它，没有生气；因为，虽然身体和灵魂的懒惰像看不见的害虫一样爬过它，爬过拖着脚的脚，爬上斗篷的褶皱，爬到奴性的头上，但它似乎谦卑地意识到自己的侮辱。这是一个披着借来的米利都斗篷的菲尔博格人。他想起了他的朋友达文，那个农民学生。这是他们之间的一个玩笑，但年轻的农民却淡淡地接受了：

—Go on, Stevie, I have a hard head, you tell me. Call me what you will.
——继续吧，史蒂维，你告诉我，我脑子很硬。你想怎么称呼我就怎么称呼我。

The homely version of his christian name on the lips of his friend had touched Stephen pleasantly when first heard for he was as formal in speech with others as they were with him. Often, as he sat in Davin’s rooms in Grantham Street, wondering at his friend’s well-made boots that flanked the wall pair by pair and repeating for his friend’s simple ear the verses and cadences of others which were the veils of his own longing and dejection, the rude Firbolg mind of his listener had drawn his mind towards it and flung it back again, drawing it by a quiet inbred courtesy of attention or by a quaint turn of old English speech or by the force of its delight in rude bodily skill—for Davin had sat at the feet of Michael Cusack, the Gael—repelling swiftly and suddenly by a grossness of intelligence or by a bluntness of feeling or by a dull stare of terror in the eyes, the terror of soul of a starving Irish village in which the curfew was still a nightly fear.
当史蒂芬第一次听到朋友口中说出的他的基督教名字的朴素版本时，他感到很愉快，因为他与别人交谈时就像他们与他交谈一样正式。他常常坐在格兰瑟姆街达文的房间里，好奇地看着他朋友那双一双双贴在墙上的做工精良的靴子，并在他朋友单纯的耳朵里重复别人的诗句和节奏，而这些诗句和节奏却是他自己的渴望和沮丧的面纱。 ，他的听者粗鲁的菲尔博格思想把他的思想拉向它，然后又把它扔回来，通过一种安静的近亲礼貌的关注或通过古英语演讲的古雅转折或通过它对粗鲁的身体技能的喜悦的力量来吸引它——因为达文曾坐在盖尔人迈克尔·库萨克的脚下——由于智力的粗俗、感情的迟钝或眼神中恐惧的呆滞凝视，迅速而突然地排斥，这是一个饥饿的爱尔兰村庄的灵魂的恐惧。宵禁仍然是每晚的恐惧。

Side by side with his memory of the deeds of prowess of his uncle Mat Davin, the athlete, the young peasant worshipped the sorrowful legend of Ireland. The gossip of his fellow-students which strove to render the flat life of the college significant at any cost loved to think of him as a young fenian. His nurse had taught him Irish and shaped his rude imagination by the broken lights of Irish myth. He stood towards the myth upon which no individual mind had ever drawn out a line of beauty and to its unwieldy tales that divided against themselves as they moved down the cycles in the same attitude as towards the Roman catholic religion, the attitude of a dull-witted loyal serf. Whatsoever of thought or of feeling came to him from England or by way of English culture his mind stood armed against in obedience to a password; and of the world that lay beyond England he knew only the foreign legion of France in which he spoke of serving.
这位年轻的农民除了对他的运动员叔叔马特·达文的英勇事迹记忆犹新之外，还崇拜爱尔兰的悲伤传说。他的同学不惜一切代价努力使学院的平淡生活变得有意义，他们的闲言碎语喜欢把他视为一个年轻的芬尼安人。他的护士教了他爱尔兰语，并通过爱尔兰神话的残破光芒塑造了他粗鲁的想象力。他站在神话的立场上，没有任何个人的思想能够在其上画出一条美丽的线，也站在那些笨拙的故事上，这些故事在循环中以与罗马天主教相同的态度，一种迟钝的态度，在循环中分裂自己。机智忠诚的农奴。无论什么思想或感情来自英国或通过英国文化，他的思想都武装起来，服从密码；对于英格兰以外的世界，他只知道他所说的服役的法国外籍军团。

Coupling this ambition with the young man’s humour Stephen had often called him one of the tame geese and there was even a point of irritation in the name pointed against that very reluctance of speech and deed in his friend which seemed so often to stand between Stephen’s mind, eager of speculation, and the hidden ways of Irish life.
将这种野心与年轻人的幽默结合起来，斯蒂芬经常称他为一只驯服的鹅，这个名字甚至有一点令人恼火的地方，这与他的朋友在言语和行为上的不情愿相反，这似乎经常阻碍斯蒂芬的思想。 、热衷于猜测以及爱尔兰生活方式的隐秘方式。

One night the young peasant, his spirit stung by the violent or luxurious language in which Stephen escaped from the cold silence of intellectual revolt, had called up before Stephen’s mind a strange vision. The two were walking slowly towards Davin’s rooms through the dark narrow streets of the poorer jews.
一天晚上，这位年轻的农民的精神被斯蒂芬逃离知识分子反抗的冷漠沉默的暴力或奢华的语言所刺痛，在斯蒂芬的脑海中唤起了一个奇怪的景象。两人穿过贫穷犹太人的黑暗狭窄街道，慢慢朝达文的房间走去。

—A thing happened to myself, Stevie, last autumn, coming on winter, and I never told it to a living soul and you are the first person now I ever told it to. I disremember if it was October or November. It was October because it was before I came up here to join the matriculation class.
——史蒂维，去年秋天，冬天来临，我自己发生了一件事情，我从来没有告诉过一个活着的灵魂，而你是我现在告诉过的第一个人。我记不清是十月还是十一月了。那是十月，因为那是在我来这里参加预科班之前。

Stephen had turned his smiling eyes towards his friend’s face, flattered by his confidence and won over to sympathy by the speaker’s simple accent.
史蒂芬微笑着看着朋友的脸，他的自信让他受宠若惊，说话者简单的口音赢得了同情。

—I was away all that day from my own place over in Buttevant.
——那天我离开了巴特万特的住所。

—I don’t know if you know where that is—at a hurling match between the Croke’s Own Boys and the Fearless Thurles and by God, Stevie, that was the hard fight. My first cousin, Fonsy Davin, was stripped to his buff that day minding cool for the Limericks but he was up with the forwards half the time and shouting like mad. I never will forget that day. One of the Crokes made a woeful wipe at him one time with his caman and I declare to God he was within an aim’s ace of getting it at the side of his temple. Oh, honest to God, if the crook of it caught him that time he was done for.
——我不知道你是否知道那是在哪里——在克罗克自己的男孩队和无畏瑟勒斯队之间的一场投掷比赛中，天哪，史蒂夫，那是一场艰苦的战斗。我的表弟冯西·达文（Fonsy Davin）那天被脱光了，为利默里克队保持着冷静，但他有一半时间都在前锋身边，疯狂地大喊大叫。我永远不会忘记那一天。有一次，克罗克斯一家人用他的卡曼对他进行了一次可悲的擦拭，我向上帝宣告，他差一点就能把它擦到他的太阳穴一侧。哦，对上帝说实话，如果那一次他被骗子抓住了，他就完蛋了。

—I am glad he escaped, Stephen had said with a laugh, but surely that’s not the strange thing that happened you?
——我很高兴他逃脱了，史蒂芬笑着说，但这肯定不是发生在你身上的奇怪的事情吧？

—Well, I suppose that doesn’t interest you, but leastways there was such noise after the match that I missed the train home and I couldn’t get any kind of a yoke to give me a lift for, as luck would have it, there was a mass meeting that same day over in Castletownroche and all the cars in the country were there. So there was nothing for it only to stay the night or to foot it out. Well, I started to walk and on I went and it was coming on night when I got into the Ballyhoura hills, that’s better than ten miles from Kilmallock and there’s a long lonely road after that. You wouldn’t see the sign of a christian house along the road or hear a sound. It was pitch dark almost. Once or twice I stopped by the way under a bush to redden my pipe and only for the dew was thick I’d have stretched out there and slept. At last, after a bend of the road, I spied a little cottage with a light in the window. I went up and knocked at the door. A voice asked who was there and I answered I was over at the match in Buttevant and was walking back and that I’d be thankful for a glass of water. After a while a young woman opened the door and brought me out a big mug of milk. She was half undressed as if she was going to bed when I knocked and she had her hair hanging and I thought by her figure and by something in the look of her eyes that she must be carrying a child. She kept me in talk a long while at the door, and I thought it strange because her breast and her shoulders were bare. She asked me was I tired and would I like to stop the night there. She said she was all alone in the house and that her husband had gone that morning to Queenstown with his sister to see her off. And all the time she was talking, Stevie, she had her eyes fixed on my face and she stood so close to me I could hear her breathing. When I handed her back the mug at last she took my hand to draw me in over the threshold and said: ‘COME IN AND STAY THE NIGHT HERE. YOU’VE NO CALL TO BE FRIGHTENED. THERE’S NO ONE IN IT BUT OURSELVES...’ I didn’t go in, Stevie. I thanked her and went on my way again, all in a fever. At the first bend of the road I looked back and she was standing at the door.
——好吧，我想你对此不感兴趣，但至少比赛结束后噪音太大，我错过了回家的火车，而且我找不到任何可以搭我的车，幸运的是，当天在卡斯尔敦罗什举行了一场群众集会，全国所有的汽车都在那里。所以它没有什么办法只能过夜或徒步出去。好吧，我开始走路，继续前行，当我进入巴利胡拉山时，夜幕降临了，那里距离基尔马洛克有十英里多，之后还有一条漫长而孤独的路。你不会看到路边基督教房屋的标志，也听不到任何声音。天几乎漆黑一片了。有一两次，我在路边的灌木丛下停下来，把烟斗染红，只是因为露水很浓，我才会躺在那里睡觉。最后，经过一个弯道，我看到了一座小平房，窗子里亮着灯。我走上前去敲门。一个声音问谁在那儿，我回答说我在巴特万特的比赛结束后正在往回走，如果能给我一杯水我会很感激的。过了一会儿，一位年轻女子打开门，给我端来一大杯牛奶。当我敲门时，她半脱衣服，好像要去睡觉一样，头发垂下来，从她的身材和她的眼神中，我想她一定怀着一个孩子。她在门口让我聊了很长时间，我觉得这很奇怪，因为她的胸部和肩膀都是裸露的。她问我是否累了，是否想在那里过夜。她说，家里只有她一个人，她的丈夫那天早上和妹妹一起去了皇后镇送她。 史蒂维，她说话的时候，她的眼睛一直盯着我的脸，她站得离我很近，我能听到她的呼吸声。当我最后把杯子还给她时，她拉着我的手把我拉过门槛，说道：‘进来吧，在这里过夜。您无需害怕。除了我们自己之外，里面没有人……”我没有进去，史蒂维。我谢过她，带着发烧再次上路。在路的第一个拐角处，我回头一看，她就站在门口。

The last words of Davin’s story sang in his memory and the figure of the woman in the story stood forth reflected in other figures of the peasant women whom he had seen standing in the doorways at Clane as the college cars drove by, as a type of her race and of his own, a bat-like soul waking to the consciousness of itself in darkness and secrecy and loneliness and, through the eyes and voice and gesture of a woman without guile, calling the stranger to her bed.
达文故事的最后几句话在他的记忆中响起，故事中的女人的形象在其他农妇的形象中得到了反映，当大学汽车驶过时，他看到这些农妇站在克莱恩的门口，作为一种她的种族和他自己的种族一样，一个蝙蝠般的灵魂在黑暗、秘密和孤独中醒来，通过一个女人毫不狡诈的眼睛、声音和手势，把陌生人叫到床上。

A hand was laid on his arm and a young voice cried:
一只手搭在他的手臂上，一个年轻的声音喊道：

—Ah, gentleman, your own girl, sir! The first handsel today, gentleman. Buy that lovely bunch. Will you, gentleman?
——啊，先生，您自己的女儿，先生！今天的第一手手艺，先生。买那可爱的一堆。你愿意吗，先生？

The blue flowers which she lifted towards him and her young blue eyes seemed to him at that instant images of guilelessness, and he halted till the image had vanished and he saw only her ragged dress and damp coarse hair and hoydenish face.
那一刻，她向他举起的蓝色花朵和她那双年轻的蓝眼睛，在他看来似乎是天真无邪的形象，他停了下来，直到形象消失，他只看到她破烂的衣服、潮湿的粗发和淫荡的脸。

—Do, gentleman! Don’t forget your own girl, sir!
——做吧，先生！别忘了你自己的女儿，先生！

—I have no money, said Stephen.
——我没有钱，史蒂芬说。

—Buy them lovely ones, will you, sir? Only a penny.
——给它们买一些可爱的，好吗，先生？只要一分钱。

—Did you hear what I said? asked Stephen, bending towards her. I told you I had no money. I tell you again now.
——你听到我说的话了吗？史蒂芬朝她弯下腰问道。我告诉过你我没有钱。我现在再告诉你一次。

—Well, sure, you will some day, sir, please God, the girl answered after an instant.
——好吧，当然，有一天你会的，先生，上帝保佑，女孩过了一会儿回答道。

—Possibly, said Stephen, but I don’t think it likely.
——有可能，斯蒂芬说，但我认为不太可能。

He left her quickly, fearing that her intimacy might turn to jibing and wishing to be out of the way before she offered her ware to another, a tourist from England or a student of Trinity. Grafton Street, along which he walked, prolonged that moment of discouraged poverty. In the roadway at the head of the street a slab was set to the memory of Wolfe Tone and he remembered having been present with his father at its laying. He remembered with bitterness that scene of tawdry tribute. There were four French delegates in a brake and one, a plump smiling young man, held, wedged on a stick, a card on which were printed the words: VIVE L’IRLANDE!
他很快就离开了她，担心她的亲密行为可能会变成嘲笑，并希望在她将商品提供给另一个人（来自英国的游客或三一学院的学生）之前先走开。他所走过的格拉夫顿街延长了那段灰心丧气的贫困时期。在街道尽头的道路上，为纪念沃尔夫·托恩（Wolfe Tone）而立了一块石板，他记得在铺设这块石板时，他和父亲在场。他痛苦地回忆起那场庸俗的致敬场面。刹车里有四名法国代表，其中一名是一位胖胖的、微笑的年轻人，手里拿着一张卡片，卡在一根棍子上，上面印着：爱尔兰万岁！

But the trees in Stephen’s Green were fragrant of rain and the rain-sodden earth gave forth its mortal odour, a faint incense rising upward through the mould from many hearts. The soul of the gallant venal city which his elders had told him of had shrunk with time to a faint mortal odour rising from the earth and he knew that in a moment when he entered the sombre college he would be conscious of a corruption other than that of Buck Egan and Burnchapel Whaley.
但斯蒂芬绿地上的树木散发着雨水的芬芳，被雨水浸透的大地也散发出致命的气味，一股淡淡的焚香透过霉菌从许多人心中升腾而起。他的长辈们向他讲述的那座英勇贪婪的城市的灵魂，随着时间的推移，已经萎缩成一种从大地升起的微弱的凡人气味，他知道，在他进入这所阴暗的学院的那一刻，他会意识到除此之外的一种腐败。巴克·伊根和伯恩查佩尔·惠利。

It was too late to go upstairs to the French class. He crossed the hall and took the corridor to the left which led to the physics theatre. The corridor was dark and silent but not unwatchful. Why did he feel that it was not unwatchful? Was it because he had heard that in Buck Whaley’s time there was a secret staircase there? Or was the jesuit house extra-territorial and was he walking among aliens? The Ireland of Tone and of Parnell seemed to have receded in space.
上楼去法语课已经太晚了。他穿过大厅，走左边的走廊，通向物理剧场。走廊黑暗而安静，但并非无人监视。为什么他觉得这不是什么不注意的事情呢？是因为他听说在巴克·威利时代那里有一个秘密楼梯吗？或者耶稣会的房子是域外的，他是在外星人中间行走吗？托恩和帕内尔的爱尔兰似乎已经在太空中退去。

He opened the door of the theatre and halted in the chilly grey light that struggled through the dusty windows. A figure was crouching before the large grate and by its leanness and greyness he knew that it was the dean of studies lighting the fire. Stephen closed the door quietly and approached the fireplace.
他打开剧院的门，在从布满灰尘的窗户里透进来的寒冷的灰色光线中停了下来。一个人影蹲在大壁炉前，从它的瘦削和灰色，他知道那是院长在生火。斯蒂芬静静地关上门，走近壁炉。

—Good morning, sir! Can I help you?
-早上好先生！我可以帮你吗？

The priest looked up quickly and said:
神父连忙抬起头来说道：

—One moment now, Mr Dedalus, and you will see. There is an art in lighting a fire. We have the liberal arts and we have the useful arts. This is one of the useful arts.
——现在，迪达勒斯先生，你就会明白了。生火是一门艺术。我们有文科，也有实用科。这是有用的艺术之一。

—I will try to learn it, said Stephen.
——我会努力学习它，斯蒂芬说。

—Not too much coal, said the dean, working briskly at his task, that is one of the secrets.
——不要太多煤炭，院长一边说，一边轻快地完成他的任务，这是秘密之一。

He produced four candle-butts from the side-pockets of his soutane and placed them deftly among the coals and twisted papers. Stephen watched him in silence. Kneeling thus on the flagstone to kindle the fire and busied with the disposition of his wisps of paper and candle-butts he seemed more than ever a humble server making ready the place of sacrifice in an empty temple, a levite of the Lord. Like a levite’s robe of plain linen the faded worn soutane draped the kneeling figure of one whom the canonicals or the bell-bordered ephod would irk and trouble. His very body had waxed old in lowly service of the Lord—in tending the fire upon the altar, in bearing tidings secretly, in waiting upon worldlings, in striking swiftly when bidden—and yet had remained ungraced by aught of saintly or of prelatic beauty. Nay, his very soul had waxed old in that service without growing towards light and beauty or spreading abroad a sweet odour of her sanctity—a mortified will no more responsive to the thrill of its obedience than was to the thrill of love or combat his ageing body, spare and sinewy, greyed with a silver-pointed down.
他从苏坦尼的侧袋里拿出四个烛头，熟练地将它们放在煤炭和扭曲的纸片中。斯蒂芬默默地看着他。就这样，他跪在石板上生火，忙着处理纸片和烛头，看上去比以往任何时候都更像一个谦卑的仆人，在一座空荡荡的神庙里准备祭祀场所，是上帝的利未人。就像利未人的普通亚麻长袍一样，褪色破旧的苏坦披在跪着的人身上，教规或钟形镶边的以弗得会惹恼和困扰他。他的身体在为主的卑微服务中——在照管祭坛上的火、秘密地传递消息、等待世人、在接到命令时迅速出击——而变得衰老，但仍然没有任何圣洁或教士的美丽。 。不仅如此，他的灵魂在这种服务中已经日渐衰老，没有成长为光明和美丽，也没有向外界传播她神圣的甜蜜气味——一种屈辱的意志不会对服从的兴奋做出更多的反应，就像对爱的兴奋或与衰老作斗争一样。身体瘦削，肌肉发达，呈灰色，有银尖的绒毛。

The dean rested back on his hunkers and watched the sticks catch. Stephen, to fill the silence, said:
院长靠在椅背上，看着棍子接住。斯蒂芬为了打破沉默说道：

—I am sure I could not light a fire.
——我确信我无法生火。

—You are an artist, are you not, Mr Dedalus? said the dean, glancing up and blinking his pale eyes. The object of the artist is the creation of the beautiful. What the beautiful is is another question.
——你是一位艺术家，不是吗，迪达勒斯先生？院长抬起头，眨着苍白的眼睛说道。艺术家的目标是创造美。美丽是什么是另一个问题。

He rubbed his hands slowly and drily over the difficulty.
他慢慢地、干巴巴地搓着手，克服这个困难。

—Can you solve that question now? he asked.
——你现在能解答这个问题吗？他问。

—Aquinas, answered Stephen, says PULCRA SUNT QUAE VISA PLACENT.
——阿奎那，斯蒂芬回答说，“PULCRA SUNT QUAE VISA PLACENT”。

—This fire before us, said the dean, will be pleasing to the eye. Will it therefore be beautiful?
——我们面前的这堆火，院长说，一定会赏心悦目。那么它会变得美丽吗？

—In so far as it is apprehended by the sight, which I suppose means here esthetic intellection, it will be beautiful. But Aquinas also says BONUM EST IN QUOD TENDIT APPETITUS. In so far as it satisfies the animal craving for warmth fire is a good. In hell, however, it is an evil.
——就视觉所理解的而言，我想这里指的是审美智力，它将是美丽的。但阿奎那也说“BONUM EST IN QUOD TENDIT APPETITUS”。只要能满足动物对温暖的渴望，火就是一件好事。然而，在地狱里，这是一种邪恶。

—Quite so, said the dean, you have certainly hit the nail on the head.
——确实如此，院长说，你说得一针见血。

He rose nimbly and went towards the door, set it ajar and said:
他敏捷地站起身来，走到门口，将门半开，说道：

—A draught is said to be a help in these matters.
——据说草案对这些事情有帮助。

As he came back to the hearth, limping slightly but with a brisk step, Stephen saw the silent soul of a jesuit look out at him from the pale loveless eyes. Like Ignatius he was lame but in his eyes burned no spark of Ignatius’s enthusiasm. Even the legendary craft of the company, a craft subtler and more secret than its fabled books of secret subtle wisdom, had not fired his soul with the energy of apostleship. It seemed as if he used the shifts and lore and cunning of the world, as bidden to do, for the greater glory of God, without joy in their handling or hatred of that in them which was evil but turning them, with a firm gesture of obedience back upon themselves and for all this silent service it seemed as if he loved not at all the master and little, if at all, the ends he served. SIMILITER ATQUE SENIS BACULUS, he was, as the founder would have had him, like a staff in an old man’s hand, to be leaned on in the road at nightfall or in stress of weather, to lie with a lady’s nosegay on a garden seat, to be raised in menace.
当他回到壁炉边时，脚步稍稍一瘸一拐，但迈着轻快的步伐，斯蒂芬看到一个耶稣会士的沉默的灵魂从苍白、无情的眼睛里看着他。和伊格内修斯一样，他也是个瘸子，但他的眼里却没有燃烧起伊格内修斯的热情火花。即使是公司的传奇工艺，一种比其传说中的秘密微妙智慧书籍更微妙、更秘密的工艺，也没有用使徒的能量点燃他的灵魂。似乎他按照命令，利用了世界的变化、知识和狡猾，为了上帝更大的荣耀，对他们的处理没有任何喜悦，也没有对他们内心邪恶的仇恨，但以坚定的姿态扭转了他们服从回到自己身上，尽管他默默地服务了这一切，但他似乎根本不爱主人，也很少（如果有的话）他所服务的目的。就像创始人所希望的那样，他就像老人手中的一根拐杖，可以在夜幕降临或天气恶劣的时候靠在路上，可以与一位女士的花束一起躺在花园的座位上，在威胁中长大。

The dean returned to the hearth and began to stroke his chin.
院长回到炉边，开始抚摸下巴。

—When may we expect to have something from you on the esthetic question? he asked.
——我们什么时候可以收到你关于审美问题的消息？他问。

—From me! said Stephen in astonishment. I stumble on an idea once a fortnight if I am lucky.
-从我！史蒂芬惊讶地说。如果幸运的话，我每两周都会偶然发现一个想法。

—These questions are very profound, Mr Dedalus, said the dean. It is like looking down from the cliffs of Moher into the depths. Many go down into the depths and never come up. Only the trained diver can go down into those depths and explore them and come to the surface again.
——这些问题非常深刻，迪达勒斯先生，院长说。这就像从莫赫悬崖上往下看深处一样。许多人跌入深渊，再也没有上来。只有训练有素的潜水员才能潜入这些深处进行探索并再次浮出水面。

—If you mean speculation, sir, said Stephen, I also am sure that there is no such thing as free thinking inasmuch as all thinking must be bound by its own laws.
——如果你指的是推测，先生，斯蒂芬说，我也确信不存在自由思想这样的东西，因为所有的思想都必须受到其自身法则的约束。

—Ha!
-哈！

—For my purpose I can work on at present by the light of one or two ideas of Aristotle and Aquinas.
——为了我的目的，我目前可以根据亚里士多德和阿奎那的一两个思想来工作。

—I see. I quite see your point.
-我懂了。我非常明白你的观点。

—I need them only for my own use and guidance until I have done something for myself by their light. If the lamp smokes or smells I shall try to trim it. If it does not give light enough I shall sell it and buy another.
——我需要它们只是为了我自己的使用和指导，直到我通过它们的光芒为自己做一些事情。如果灯冒烟或发出气味，我会尝试修剪它。如果它不能发出足够的光，我就会卖掉它并购买另一个。

—Epictetus also had a lamp, said the dean, which was sold for a fancy price after his death. It was the lamp he wrote his philosophical dissertations by. You know Epictetus?
——爱比克泰德还有一盏灯，院长说，他死后这盏灯被卖了个好价钱。这是他用来写哲学论文的灯。你知道爱比克泰德吗？

—An old gentleman, said Stephen coarsely, who said that the soul is very like a bucketful of water.
——一位老绅士，斯蒂芬粗俗地说，他说灵魂就像一桶水。

—He tells us in his homely way, the dean went on, that he put an iron lamp before a statue of one of the gods and that a thief stole the lamp. What did the philosopher do? He reflected that it was in the character of a thief to steal and determined to buy an earthen lamp next day instead of the iron lamp.
——他用他家常的方式告诉我们，院长继续说道，他在一位神的雕像前放了一盏铁灯，然后一个小偷偷了这盏灯。哲学家做了什么？他反思，偷窃是小偷的本性，决定第二天买一盏土灯，不买铁灯。

A smell of molten tallow came up from the dean’s candle butts and fused itself in Stephen’s consciousness with the jingle of the words, bucket and lamp and lamp and bucket. The priest’s voice, too, had a hard jingling tone. Stephen’s mind halted by instinct, checked by the strange tone and the imagery and by the priest’s face which seemed like an unlit lamp or a reflector hung in a false focus. What lay behind it or within it? A dull torpor of the soul or the dullness of the thundercloud, charged with intellection and capable of the gloom of God?
院长的烛头里散发出一股熔化牛脂的味道，与“桶和灯、灯和桶”这几个词的叮当声融为一体，融入了斯蒂芬的意识中。神父的声音也带着刺耳的叮当声。斯蒂芬的思维本能地停止了，奇怪的语气和图像以及神父的脸检查了这一点，他的脸看起来像一盏未点燃的灯或一个挂在错误焦点上的反光镜。它的背后或里面隐藏着什么？是灵魂的迟钝麻木还是雷云的迟钝，充满了智慧并能承受上帝的阴暗？

—I meant a different kind of lamp, sir, said Stephen.
——我指的是一种不同类型的灯，先生，斯蒂芬说。

—Undoubtedly, said the dean.
——毫无疑问，院长说。

—One difficulty, said Stephen, in esthetic discussion is to know whether words are being used according to the literary tradition or according to the tradition of the marketplace. I remember a sentence of Newman’s in which he says of the Blessed Virgin that she was detained in the full company of the saints. The use of the word in the marketplace is quite different. I HOPE I AM NOT DETAINING YOU.
——斯蒂芬说，在美学讨论中，一个困难是要知道词语的使用是根据文学传统还是根据市场传统。我记得纽曼的一句话，他在谈到圣母时说，她与圣徒一起被拘留。该词在市场上的用法有很大不同。我希望我没有拘留你。

—Not in the least, said the dean politely.
——一点也不，院长礼貌地说。

—No, no, said Stephen, smiling, I mean—
——不，不，斯蒂芬微笑着说，我是说——

—Yes, yes; I see, said the dean quickly, I quite catch the point: DETAIN.
-是的是的;我明白了，院长很快说道，我很明白要点：拘留。

He thrust forward his under jaw and uttered a dry short cough.
他向前伸出下巴，发出一声短促的干咳。

—To return to the lamp, he said, the feeding of it is also a nice problem. You must choose the pure oil and you must be careful when you pour it in not to overflow it, not to pour in more than the funnel can hold.
——回到灯，他说，灯的供给也是一个很好的问题。一定要选择纯正的油，倒入的时候一定要小心，不要溢出来，也不要倒入超过漏斗所能容纳的量。

—What funnel? asked Stephen.
——什么漏斗？史蒂芬问道。

—The funnel through which you pour the oil into your lamp.
——将油倒入灯中的漏斗。

—That? said Stephen. Is that called a funnel? Is it not a tundish?
-那？斯蒂芬说。这也叫漏斗吗？这不是中间包吗？

—What is a tundish?
—什么是中间包？

—That. The... funnel.
-那。 ……漏斗。

—Is that called a tundish in Ireland? asked the dean. I never heard the word in my life.
——在爱尔兰这叫中间包吗？院长问道。我一生中从未听过这个词。

—It is called a tundish in Lower Drumcondra, said Stephen, laughing, where they speak the best English.
——在下德拉姆康德拉，这叫中间包，斯蒂芬笑着说，那里的英语说得最好。

—A tundish, said the dean reflectively. That is a most interesting word. I must look that word up. Upon my word I must.
——中间包，院长若有所思地说。这是一个最有趣的词。我必须查一下这个词。我保证，我必须这样做。

His courtesy of manner rang a little false and Stephen looked at the English convert with the same eyes as the elder brother in the parable may have turned on the prodigal. A humble follower in the wake of clamorous conversions, a poor Englishman in Ireland, he seemed to have entered on the stage of jesuit history when that strange play of intrigue and suffering and envy and struggle and indignity had been all but given through—a late-comer, a tardy spirit. From what had he set out? Perhaps he had been born and bred among serious dissenters, seeing salvation in Jesus only and abhorring the vain pomps of the establishment. Had he felt the need of an implicit faith amid the welter of sectarianism and the jargon of its turbulent schisms, six principle men, peculiar people, seed and snake baptists, supralapsarian dogmatists? Had he found the true church all of a sudden in winding up to the end like a reel of cotton some fine-spun line of reasoning upon insufflation on the imposition of hands or the procession of the Holy Ghost? Or had Lord Christ touched him and bidden him follow, like that disciple who had sat at the receipt of custom, as he sat by the door of some zinc-roofed chapel, yawning and telling over his church pence?
他的礼貌态度听起来有点虚假，斯蒂芬看着英国皈依者的眼神就像寓言中的哥哥看着浪子的眼神一样。作为喧嚣的皈依之后的一个卑微的追随者，一个在爱尔兰的贫穷的英国人，当那场充满阴谋、痛苦、嫉妒、斗争和侮辱的奇怪戏剧几乎结束时，他似乎已经进入了耶稣会历史的舞台——一个迟来的故事。 ——来者，一个迟到的人。他是从什么出发的呢？也许他是在严重持不同政见者中出生和长大的，只在耶稣里看到救赎，并憎恶当权派的虚荣浮华。在宗派主义的混乱和动荡的分裂的行话中，他是否感到需要一种隐含的信仰，六个原则人物，特殊的人，种子和蛇浸信会，超堕落的教条主义者？他是否突然发现了真正的教会，就像一卷棉花一样，在用手的施加或圣灵的游行时，将一些细纺的推理线缠绕到最后？还是主基督触碰了他，吩咐他跟随，就像那个坐在海关收据处的门徒一样，当他坐在某个锌顶教堂的门口，打哈欠并讲述他的教堂便士时？

The dean repeated the word yet again.
院长又重复了一遍这句话。

—Tundish! Well now, that is interesting!
——中间包！好吧，这很有趣！

—The question you asked me a moment ago seems to me more interesting. What is that beauty which the artist struggles to express from lumps of earth, said Stephen coldly.
——我觉得你刚才问的问题更有趣。艺术家努力从土块中表现出的美是什么？史蒂芬冷冷地说道。

The little word seemed to have turned a rapier point of his sensitiveness against this courteous and vigilant foe. He felt with a smart of dejection that the man to whom he was speaking was a countryman of Ben Jonson. He thought:
这句小小的话语似乎让他对这个彬彬有礼、警惕的敌人变得更加敏感。他感到一阵沮丧，因为他正在说话的那个人是本·琼森的同胞。他以为：

—The language in which we are speaking is his before it is mine. How different are the words HOME, CHRIST, ALE, MASTER, on his lips and on mine! I cannot speak or write these words without unrest of spirit. His language, so familiar and so foreign, will always be for me an acquired speech. I have not made or accepted its words. My voice holds them at bay. My soul frets in the shadow of his language.
——我们所用的语言首先是他的语言，然后才是我的语言。 “家”、“基督”、“麦酒”、“主人”这些词在他嘴里和我嘴里是多么不同啊！我无法在精神不平静的情况下说出或写下这些话。他的语言如此熟悉又如此陌生，对我来说永远是一种后天习得的语言。我没有做出或接受它的话。我的声音阻止了他们。我的灵魂在他语言的阴影下焦躁不安。

—And to distinguish between the beautiful and the sublime, the dean added, to distinguish between moral beauty and material beauty. And to inquire what kind of beauty is proper to each of the various arts. These are some interesting points we might take up.
——区分美丽和崇高，院长补充道，区分道德美和物质美。并询问每种艺术适合哪种美。这些是我们可能会讨论的一些有趣的观点。

Stephen, disheartened suddenly by the dean’s firm, dry tone, was silent; and through the silence a distant noise of many boots and confused voices came up the staircase.
斯蒂芬突然被院长坚定、干巴巴的语气弄得心灰意冷，沉默了。寂静中，远处传来许多靴子的声音和混乱的声音从楼梯上传来。

—In pursuing these speculations, said the dean conclusively, there is, however, the danger of perishing of inanition. First you must take your degree. Set that before you as your first aim. Then, little by little, you will see your way. I mean in every sense, your way in life and in thinking. It may be uphill pedalling at first. Take Mr Moonan. He was a long time before he got to the top. But he got there.
——然而，在进行这些推测时，院长最后说道，存在着因营养不足而灭亡的危险。首先你必须获得学位。将其作为您的首要目标。然后，一点一点地，你就会看到你的路。我的意思是在各个方面，你的生活方式和思维方式。一开始可能会踩上坡。以穆南先生为例。他花了很长时间才到达山顶。但他到了那里。

—I may not have his talent, said Stephen quietly.
——我可能没有他的天赋，斯蒂芬平静地说。

—You never know, said the dean brightly. We never can say what is in us. I most certainly should not be despondent. PER ASPERA AD ASTRA.
——你永远不知道，院长明亮地说。我们永远无法说出我们内心的想法。我当然不应该感到沮丧。 《阿斯佩拉广告阿斯特拉》。

He left the hearth quickly and went towards the landing to oversee the arrival of the first arts’ class.
他迅速离开壁炉，走向楼梯平台，监督第一堂艺术课的到来。

Leaning against the fireplace Stephen heard him greet briskly and impartially every Student of the class and could almost see the frank smiles of the coarser students. A desolating pity began to fall like dew upon his easily embittered heart for this faithful serving-man of the knightly Loyola, for this half-brother of the clergy, more venal than they in speech, more steadfast of soul than they, one whom he would never call his ghostly father; and he thought how this man and his companions had earned the name of worldlings at the hands not of the unworldly only but of the worldly also for having pleaded, during all their history, at the bar of God’s justice for the souls of the lax and the lukewarm and the prudent.
斯蒂芬靠在壁炉上，听到他轻快而公正地向班上的每一位学生打招呼，几乎可以看到粗鲁学生坦率的微笑。一种凄凉的怜悯开始像露水一样落在他容易痛苦的心上，对这位骑士罗耀拉的忠实仆人，对这位神职人员同父异母的兄弟，他在言语上比他们更加贪婪，比他们在灵魂上更加坚定，他是一个他所崇拜的人。永远不会打电话给他幽灵般的父亲；他想，这个人和他的同伴们如何不仅在超凡脱俗的人手中赢得了俗人的称号，而且还因为在他们的整个历史中，在上帝的正义面前为那些松懈和不道德的人的灵魂辩护。不冷不热和谨慎的人。

The entry of the professor was signalled by a few rounds of Kentish fire from the heavy boots of those students who sat on the highest tier of the gloomy theatre under the grey cobwebbed windows. The calling of the roll began and the responses to the names were given out in all tones until the name of Peter Byrne was reached.
坐在灰色蜘蛛网窗户下阴暗剧院最高层的学生们，用厚重的靴子发射了几轮肯特式射击，标志着教授的到来。点名开始，大家以各种声音回应名字，直到喊到彼得·伯恩的名字。

—Here!
-这里！

A deep bass note in response came from the upper tier, followed by coughs of protest along the other benches.
上层传来一声深沉的低音回应，随后其他长凳上传来抗议的咳嗽声。

The professor paused in his reading and called the next name:
教授暂停了阅读，喊出了下一个名字：

—Cranly!
——克兰利！

No answer.
没有答案。

—Mr Cranly!
——克兰利先生！

A smile flew across Stephen’s face as he thought of his friend’s studies.
当斯蒂芬想到他朋友的学习时，他的脸上浮现出微笑。

—Try Leopardstown! Said a voice from the bench behind.
—尝试一下豹镇！身后的长凳上传来一个声音。

Stephen glanced up quickly but Moynihan’s snoutish face, outlined on the grey light, was impassive. A formula was given out. Amid the rustling of the notebooks Stephen turned back again and said:
史蒂芬迅速抬起头来，但灰色灯光下勾画出的莫伊尼汉那张尖嘴脸却面无表情。给出了一个公式。在笔记本的沙沙声中，斯蒂芬再次转过身来说道：

—Give me some paper for God’s sake.
——看在上帝的份上，给我一些纸。

—Are you as bad as that? asked Moynihan with a broad grin.
——你有那么糟糕吗？莫伊尼汉咧嘴一笑问道。

He tore a sheet from his scribbler and passed it down, whispering:
他从笔记本上撕下一张纸，递给他，低声说道：

—In case of necessity any layman or woman can do it.
——如有必要，任何外行或女性都可以做到。

The formula which he wrote obediently on the sheet of paper, the coiling and uncoiling calculations of the professor, the spectre-like symbols of force and velocity fascinated and jaded Stephen’s mind. He had heard some say that the old professor was an atheist freemason. O the grey dull day! It seemed a limbo of painless patient consciousness through which souls of mathematicians might wander, projecting long slender fabrics from plane to plane of ever rarer and paler twilight, radiating swift eddies to the last verges of a universe ever vaster, farther and more impalpable.
他乖乖地写在纸上的公式，教授卷起和展开的计算，力和速度的幽灵般的符号，让史蒂芬着迷又厌倦。他听人说老教授是个无神论者共济会会员。哦，灰暗沉闷的日子！这似乎是一种无痛的病人意识的边缘地带，数学家的灵魂可以在其中徘徊，将细长的织物从一个越来越稀有、越来越苍白的暮光平面投射到另一个平面，将快速的漩涡辐射到一个更加广阔、更加遥远、更加难以捉摸的宇宙的最后边缘。

—So we must distinguish between elliptical and ellipsoidal. Perhaps some of you gentlemen may be familiar with the works of Mr W. S. Gilbert. In one of his songs he speaks of the billiard sharp who is condemned to play:
——所以我们必须区分椭圆形和椭球体。也许你们中的一些先生可能熟悉W.S.吉尔伯特先生的作品。在他的一首歌曲中，他谈到了注定要打台球的高手：

On a cloth untrue
在布上不真实

With a twisted cue
带着扭曲的提示

And elliptical billiard balls.
还有椭圆形台球。

—He means a ball having the form of the ellipsoid of the principal axes of which I spoke a moment ago.
——他指的是一个具有我刚才谈到的主轴椭球形状的球。

Moynihan leaned down towards Stephen’s ear and murmured:
莫伊尼汉俯身靠近斯蒂芬的耳边，低声说道：

—What price ellipsoidal balls! chase me, ladies, I’m in the cavalry!
——椭圆球什么价啊！追我吧，女士们，我是骑兵！

His fellow student’s rude humour ran like a gust through the cloister of Stephen’s mind, shaking into gay life limp priestly vestments that hung upon the walls, setting them to sway and caper in a sabbath of misrule. The forms of the community emerged from the gust-blown vestments, the dean of studies, the portly florid bursar with his cap of grey hair, the president, the little priest with feathery hair who wrote devout verses, the squat peasant form of the professor of economics, the tall form of the young professor of mental science discussing on the landing a case of conscience with his class like a giraffe cropping high leafage among a herd of antelopes, the grave troubled prefect of the sodality, the plump round-headed professor of Italian with his rogue’s eyes. They came ambling and stumbling, tumbling and capering, kilting their gowns for leap frog, holding one another back, shaken with deep false laughter, smacking one another behind and laughing at their rude malice, calling to one another by familiar nicknames, protesting with sudden dignity at some rough usage, whispering two and two behind their hands.
他同学粗鲁的幽默像一阵风吹过史蒂芬心灵的回廊，摇晃着悬挂在墙上的松软的牧师法衣，让它们在一个暴政的安息日里摇摆和跳跃。社区的形式从被狂风吹起的法衣、教务长、戴着灰白帽子、肥胖、红润的财务官、校长、写着虔诚诗句的羽毛状头发的小牧师、教授的矮胖农民形式中浮现出来。经济学教授，年轻的心理科学教授高大的身躯，正在与他的班级讨论良心案件，就像长颈鹿在一群羚羊中割出高高的叶子，联谊会的严重陷入困境的长官，胖乎乎的圆头教授意大利人用他流氓的眼睛。他们踉踉跄跄地走过来，跌跌撞撞、跳跃跳跃，把长袍打成蛙跳式，互相拉住，深沉的虚假笑声使人颤抖，互相拍打对方的身后，嘲笑他们粗鲁的恶意，用熟悉的绰号互相呼唤，用突然的声音抗议。在一些粗鲁的使用中保持尊严，在背后窃窃私语两两。

The professor had gone to the glass cases on the side wall, from a shelf of which he took down a set of coils, blew away the dust from many points and, bearing it carefully to the table, held a finger on it while he proceeded with his lecture. He explained that the wires in modern coils were of a compound called platinoid lately discovered by F. W. Martino.
教授走到侧壁上的玻璃柜前，从架子上取下一组线圈，吹掉许多点上的灰尘，然后小心地将其放在桌子上，一边继续一边用手指按住它。和他的演讲。他解释说，现代线圈中的电线是由 F. W. Martino 最近发现的一种名为铂类化合物的化合物制成的。

He spoke clearly the initials and surname of the discoverer. Moynihan whispered from behind:
他清楚地说出了发现者的姓名首字母和姓氏。莫伊尼汉在背后低声说道：

—Good old Fresh Water Martin!
——好老的淡水马丁！

—Ask him, Stephen whispered back with weary humour, if he wants a subject for electrocution. He can have me.
——问他，史蒂芬带着疲惫的幽默低声回答道，是否想要一个触电的对象。他可以拥有我。

Moynihan, seeing the professor bend over the coils, rose in his bench and, clacking noiselessly the fingers of his right hand, began to call with the voice of a slobbering urchin.
莫伊尼汉看到教授俯身在线圈上，便从长凳上站起来，用右手手指无声地敲击着，开始用流着口水的顽童的声音喊道。

—Please teacher! This boy is after saying a bad word, teacher.
——请老师！老师，这个男孩说了一句脏话。

—Platinoid, the professor said solemnly, is preferred to German silver because it has a lower coefficient of resistance by changes of temperature. The platinoid wire is insulated and the covering of silk that insulates it is wound on the ebonite bobbins just where my finger is. If it were wound single an extra current would be induced in the coils. The bobbins are saturated in hot paraffin wax...
——教授郑重地说，铂金比德国银更受欢迎，因为它对温度变化的电阻系数较低。白金线是绝缘的，绝缘丝的覆盖物缠绕在硬橡胶线轴上，就在我手指所在的地方。如果它是单绕的，线圈中就会感应出额外的电流。线轴浸透在热石蜡中......

A sharp Ulster voice said from the bench below Stephen:
斯蒂芬下面的长凳上传来一个尖锐的阿尔斯特声音：

—Are we likely to be asked questions on applied science?
——我们可能会被问到有关应用科学的问题吗？

The professor began to juggle gravely with the terms pure science and applied science. A heavy-built student, wearing gold spectacles, stared with some wonder at the questioner. Moynihan murmured from behind in his natural voice:
这位教授开始认真地对待纯科学和应用科学这两个术语。一名身材魁梧的学生，戴着金色眼镜，有些惊奇地盯着发问者。莫伊尼汉在背后用他自然的声音低声说道：

—Isn’t MacAlister a devil for his pound of flesh?
——麦卡利斯特难道不是因为他的一磅肉而成为魔鬼吗？

Stephen looked coldly on the oblong skull beneath him overgrown with tangled twine-coloured hair. The voice, the accent, the mind of the questioner offended him and he allowed the offence to carry him towards wilful unkindness, bidding his mind think that the student’s father would have done better had he sent his son to Belfast to study and have saved something on the train fare by so doing.
史蒂芬冷冷地看着他身下的长方形头骨，上面长满了纠结的麻线色头发。提问者的声音、口音和思想都冒犯了他，他允许这种冒犯把他带向故意不友善的境地，让他的思想认为，如果学生的父亲送儿子去贝尔法斯特学习并节省一些东西，他会做得更好。这样做可以节省火车票价。

The oblong skull beneath did not turn to meet this shaft of thought and yet the shaft came back to its bowstring; for he saw in a moment the student’s whey-pale face.
下面的长方形头骨并没有转动来迎合这股思绪，然而这股思绪又回到了它的弓弦上；因为他立刻就看到了学生那张苍白的脸。

—That thought is not mine, he said to himself quickly. It came from the comic Irishman in the bench behind. Patience. Can you say with certitude by whom the soul of your race was bartered and its elect betrayed—by the questioner or by the mocker? Patience. Remember Epictetus. It is probably in his character to ask such a question at such a moment in such a tone and to pronounce the word SCIENCE as a monosyllable.
——这个想法不是我的，他很快对自己说。它来自坐在后面长凳上的喜剧爱尔兰人。耐心。你能肯定地说，你的种族的灵魂被谁出卖了，它的选民被谁出卖了——是提问者还是嘲笑者？耐心。记住爱比克泰德。在这样的时刻以这样的语气问这样的问题，并将“科学”这个词读成单音节，这可能符合他的性格。

The droning voice of the professor continued to wind itself slowly round and round the coils it spoke of, doubling, trebling, quadrupling its somnolent energy as the coil multiplied its ohms of resistance.
教授的嗡嗡声继续缓慢地绕着它所说的线圈，随着线圈电阻倍增，其令人昏昏欲睡的能量加倍、三倍、四倍。

Moynihan’s voice called from behind in echo to a distant bell:
莫伊尼汉的声音从后面传来，与远处的钟声相呼应：

—Closing time, gents!
——关门时间到了，先生们！

The entrance hall was crowded and loud with talk. On a table near the door were two photographs in frames and between them a long roll of paper bearing an irregular tail of signatures. MacCann went briskly to and fro among the students, talking rapidly, answering rebuffs and leading one after another to the table. In the inner hall the dean of studies stood talking to a young professor, stroking his chin gravely and nodding his head.
门厅里人声鼎沸，议论纷纷。靠近门的桌子上放着两张镶在相框中的照片，照片之间有一卷长长的纸，上面有不规则的签名尾部。麦肯在学生中轻快地走来走去，语速很快，回答拒绝的问题，然后领着一个又一个到桌子旁。内厅里，教务长站着，和一位年轻的教授说话，表情严肃地摸着下巴，点点头。

Stephen, checked by the crowd at the door, halted irresolutely. From under the wide falling leaf of a soft hat Cranly’s dark eyes were watching him.
斯蒂芬被门口的人群围观，犹豫不决地停了下来。克兰利的黑眼睛在一顶软帽的宽大落叶下注视着他。

—Have you signed? Stephen asked.
——你签了吗？史蒂芬问。

Cranly closed his long thin-lipped mouth, communed with himself an instant and answered:
克兰利闭上薄唇长嘴，自言自语道：

—EGO HABEO.
——伊戈·哈贝奥。

—What is it for?
——这是做什么用的？

—QUOD?
-狴？

—What is it for?
——这是做什么用的？

Cranly turned his pale face to Stephen and said blandly and bitterly:
克兰利把苍白的脸转向斯蒂芬，温和而痛苦地说：

—PER PAX UNIVERSALIS.
—每人通用。

Stephen pointed to the Tsar’s photograph and said:
斯蒂芬指着沙皇的照片说道：

—He has the face of a besotted Christ.
——他有一张痴迷基督的脸。

The scorn and anger in his voice brought Cranly’s eyes back from a calm survey of the walls of the hall.
他声音中的轻蔑和愤怒让克兰利的目光从平静地审视着大厅的墙壁中收回来。

—Are you annoyed? he asked.
-烦到你了吗？他问。

—No, answered Stephen.
——不，史蒂芬回答。

—Are you in bad humour?
——你心情不好吗？

—No.
-不。

—CREDO UT VOS SANGUINARIUS MENDAX ESTIS, said Cranly, QUIA FACIES VOSTRA MONSTRAT UT VOS IN DAMNO MALO HUMORE ESTIS.
——CREDO UT VOS SANGUINARIUS MENDAX ESTIS，克兰利说，QUIA FACIES VOSTRA MONSTRAT UT VOS IN DAMNO MALO HUMORE ESTIS。

Moynihan, on his way to the table, said in Stephen’s ear:
莫伊尼汉在走向餐桌的路上，在斯蒂芬耳边说道：

—MacCann is in tiptop form. Ready to shed the last drop. Brand new world. No stimulants and votes for the bitches.
——MacCann 处于最佳状态。准备好流尽最后一滴。崭新的世界。没有兴奋剂和母狗的选票。

Stephen smiled at the manner of this confidence and, when Moynihan had passed, turned again to meet Cranly’s eyes.
史蒂芬对这种自信的态度微笑起来，等莫伊尼汉走过去后，他又转过身来与克兰利的眼睛对视。

—Perhaps you can tell me, he said, why he pours his soul so freely into my ear. Can you?
——也许你可以告诉我，他说，为什么他如此自由地把他的灵魂倾注在我的耳边。你可以吗？

A dull scowl appeared on Cranly’s forehead. He stared at the table where Moynihan had bent to write his name on the roll, and then said flatly:
克兰利的额头上浮现出阴沉的愁容。他盯着莫伊尼汉弯腰在名册上写下自己名字的桌子，然后平淡地说道：

—A sugar!
——一颗糖！

—QUIS EST IN MALO HUMORE, said Stephen, EGO AUT VOS?
——斯蒂芬说，“QUIS EST IN MALO HUMORE”，“EGO AUT VOS”？

Cranly did not take up the taunt. He brooded sourly on his judgement and repeated with the same flat force:
克兰利没有接受这种嘲讽。他沉思着自己的判断，用同样平淡的语气重复道：

—A flaming bloody sugar, that’s what he is!
——燃烧的血糖，就是他！

It was his epitaph for all dead friendships and Stephen wondered whether it would ever be spoken in the same tone over his memory. The heavy lumpish phrase sank slowly out of hearing like a stone through a quagmire. Stephen saw it sink as he had seen many another, feeling its heaviness depress his heart. Cranly’s speech, unlike that of Davin, had neither rare phrases of Elizabethan English nor quaintly turned versions of Irish idioms. Its drawl was an echo of the quays of Dublin given back by a bleak decaying seaport, its energy an echo of the sacred eloquence of Dublin given back flatly by a Wicklow pulpit.
这是他为所有死去的友谊所作的墓志铭，史蒂芬想知道在他的记忆中是否会以同样的语气说出这句话。这沉重而笨重的短语就像一块石头穿过泥沼一样慢慢地消失在人们的耳中。史蒂芬看到它下沉，就像他见过许多其他人一样，感觉它的沉重压垮了他的心。克兰利的演讲与达文的演讲不同，既没有伊丽莎白时代英语中的罕见短语，也没有古怪的爱尔兰习语版本。它的慢吞吞的声音是都柏林码头的回声，是一个荒凉腐朽的海港的回声；它的能量是威克洛讲坛平淡回馈都柏林神圣雄辩的回声。

The heavy scowl faded from Cranly’s face as MacCann marched briskly towards them from the other side of the hall.
当麦肯从大厅的另一边轻快地向他们走来时，克兰利脸上的浓重的愁容消失了。

—Here you are! said MacCann cheerily.
-给你！麦坎高兴地说。

—Here I am! said Stephen.
-我在这里！斯蒂芬说。

—Late as usual. Can you not combine the progressive tendency with a respect for punctuality?
——像往常一样迟到了。难道不能把进步的倾向和对守时的尊重结合起来吗？

—That question is out of order, said Stephen. Next business.
——这个问题不合常理，史蒂芬说。下一步业务。

His smiling eyes were fixed on a silver-wrapped tablet of milk chocolate which peeped out of the propagandist’s breast-pocket. A little ring of listeners closed round to hear the war of wits. A lean student with olive skin and lank black hair thrust his face between the two, glancing from one to the other at each phrase and seeming to try to catch each flying phrase in his open moist mouth. Cranly took a small grey handball from his pocket and began to examine it closely, turning it over and over.
他微笑的眼睛盯着从宣传员胸前口袋里探出来的一块银色包装的牛奶巧克力。一小群听众围拢过来聆听斗智斗勇的场面。一名橄榄色皮肤、黑色平直头发的瘦削学生将脸伸到两人之间，每句话都扫视对方，似乎试图用他张开的湿润的嘴捕捉每一个飞扬的短语。克兰利从口袋里拿出一个灰色的小手球，开始仔细检查它，把它翻来覆去。

—Next business? said MacCann. Hom!
——下一笔生意？麦肯说。哼！

He gave a loud cough of laughter, smiled broadly and tugged twice at the straw-coloured goatee which hung from his blunt chin.
他咯咯地笑了一声，露出灿烂的笑容，拉了拉他钝下巴上垂下的稻草色山羊胡。

—The next business is to sign the testimonial.
——接下来的事情是签署推荐书。

—Will you pay me anything if I sign? asked Stephen.
——如果我签字你会付钱给我吗？史蒂芬问道。

—I thought you were an idealist, said MacCann.
——我以为你是一个理想主义者，麦肯说。

The gipsy-like student looked about him and addressed the onlookers in an indistinct bleating voice.
那个像吉普赛人一样的学生环顾四周，用含糊不清的咩咩声向围观的人讲话。

—By hell, that’s a queer notion. I consider that notion to be a mercenary notion.
——天啊，这真是个奇怪的想法。我认为这种想法是一种唯利是图的想法。

His voice faded into silence. No heed was paid to his words. He turned his olive face, equine in expression, towards Stephen, inviting him to speak again.
他的声音渐渐归于寂静。没有人理会他的话。他把橄榄色的脸转向斯蒂芬，邀请他再次发言。

MacCann began to speak with fluent energy of the Tsar’s rescript, of Stead, of general disarmament arbitration in cases of international disputes, of the signs of the times, of the new humanity and the new gospel of life which would make it the business of the community to secure as cheaply as possible the greatest possible happiness of the greatest possible number.
麦肯开始以流利的能量谈论沙皇的法令、斯特德、国际争端案件中的一般裁军仲裁、时代的标志、新人性和新的生命福音，这将使其成为世界的事务。社区以尽可能低的成本确保尽可能多的人获得最大的幸福。

The gipsy student responded to the close of the period by crying:
吉普赛学生在课结束时哭着回应：

—Three cheers for universal brotherhood!
——为四海兄弟欢呼三声！

—Go on, Temple, said a stout ruddy student near him. I’ll stand you a pint after.
——继续吧，坦普尔，他身边一位身材魁梧、面色红润的学生说道。过后我会请你喝一品脱。

—I’m a believer in universal brotherhood, said Temple, glancing about him out of his dark oval eyes. Marx is only a bloody cod.
——我是四海兄弟情谊的信徒，坦普尔说，用他那双黑色的椭圆形眼睛环顾四周。马克思只是一条该死的鳕鱼。

Cranly gripped his arm tightly to check his tongue, smiling uneasily, and repeated:
克兰利紧紧地抓住他的手臂，检查他的舌头，不安地微笑着，重复道：

—Easy, easy, easy!
——简单，简单，简单！

Temple struggled to free his arm but continued, his mouth flecked by a thin foam:
坦普尔挣扎着挣脱手臂，但嘴里沾满了薄薄的泡沫，他继续说道：

—Socialism was founded by an Irishman and the first man in Europe who preached the freedom of thought was Collins. Two hundred years ago. He denounced priestcraft, the philosopher of Middlesex. Three cheers for John Anthony Collins!
——社会主义是由爱尔兰人创立的，欧洲第一个宣扬思想自由的人是柯林斯。两百年前。他谴责米德尔塞克斯哲学家牧师的行径。为约翰·安东尼·柯林斯欢呼三声！

A thin voice from the verge of the ring replied:
一个细细的声音从擂台边缘传来：

—Pip! pip!
——皮普！点！

Moynihan murmured beside Stephen’s ear:
莫伊尼汉在斯蒂芬耳边低声说道：

—And what about John Anthony’s poor little sister:
——约翰·安东尼可怜的妹妹呢：

Lottie Collins lost her drawers;
洛蒂·柯林斯丢了抽屉；

Won’t you kindly lend her yours?
你不愿意把你的借给她吗？

Stephen laughed and Moynihan, pleased with the result, murmured again:
斯蒂芬笑了，莫伊尼汉对结果很满意，再次低声说道：

—We’ll have five bob each way on John Anthony Collins.
-我们将在约翰·安东尼·柯林斯身上各有五个鲍勃。

—I am waiting for your answer, said MacCann briefly.
——我在等你的答复，麦肯简短地说。

—The affair doesn’t interest me in the least, said Stephen wearily. You know that well. Why do you make a scene about it?
——这件事我一点也不感兴趣，史蒂芬疲倦地说。你很清楚这一点。你为什么要大闹一场？

—Good! said MacCann, smacking his lips. You are a reactionary, then?
-好的！麦卡恩咂着嘴唇说道。那你是反动派吗？

—Do you think you impress me, Stephen asked, when you flourish your wooden sword?
——史蒂芬问道，当你挥舞你的木剑时，你认为你给我留下了深刻的印象吗？

—Metaphors! said MacCann bluntly. Come to facts.
——隐喻！麦坎直言不讳地说。就事实而言。

Stephen blushed and turned aside. MacCann stood his ground and said with hostile humour:
斯蒂芬脸红了，转过身去。麦肯坚守立场，带着敌意的幽默说道：

—Minor poets, I suppose, are above such trivial questions as the question of universal peace.
——我想，小诗人是不会关心世界和平问题这样的琐碎问题的。

Cranly raised his head and held the handball between the two students by way of a peace-offering, saying:
克兰利抬起头，将手球放在两个学生中间，以示和平，说道：

—PAX SUPER TOTUM SANGUINARIUM GLOBUM.
—PAX SUPER TOTUM SANGUINARIUM GLOBUM。

Stephen, moving away the bystanders, jerked his shoulder angrily in the direction of the Tsar’s image, saying:
斯蒂芬推开旁观者，愤怒地将肩膀转向沙皇的肖像，说道：

—Keep your icon. If we must have a Jesus let us have a legitimate Jesus.
—保留您的图标。如果我们必须有一个耶稣，就让我们有一个合法的耶稣。

—By hell, that’s a good one! said the gipsy student to those about him, that’s a fine expression. I like that expression immensely.
——天哪，这真是太好了！吉卜赛学生对周围的人说，这是一个很好的表达方式。我非常喜欢这个表情。

He gulped down the spittle in his throat as if he were gulping down the phrase and, fumbling at the peak of his tweed cap, turned to Stephen, saying:
他咽下喉咙里的唾沫，就像咽下这句话一样，然后摸索着花呢帽的帽檐，转向斯蒂芬，说道：

—Excuse me, sir, what do you mean by that expression you uttered just now?
——请问先生，您刚才那句话是什么意思？

Feeling himself jostled by the students near him, he said to them:
他感到自己被附近的学生推挤着，便对他们说：

—I am curious to know now what he meant by that expression.
——我现在很想知道他这句话的意思。

He turned again to Stephen and said in a whisper:
他再次转向斯蒂芬，低声说道：

—Do you believe in Jesus? I believe in man. Of course, I don’t know if you believe in man. I admire you, sir. I admire the mind of man independent of all religions. Is that your opinion about the mind of Jesus?
——你信耶稣吗？我相信男人。当然，我不知道你是否相信人类。我很佩服你，先生。我钦佩人类独立于所有宗教的思想。这是你对耶稣思想的看法吗？

—Go on, Temple, said the stout ruddy student, returning, as was his wont, to his first idea, that pint is waiting for you.
——走吧，坦普尔，那个红润的粗壮学生说道，然后又像往常一样回到了他的第一个想法：那品脱啤酒正在等你。

—He thinks I’m an imbecile, Temple explained to Stephen, because I’m a believer in the power of mind.
——坦普尔向斯蒂芬解释说，他认为我是个低能儿，因为我相信心灵的力量。

Cranly linked his arms into those of Stephen and his admirer and said:
克兰利将他的手臂与斯蒂芬和他的崇拜者的手臂相连，说道：

—NOS AD MANUM BALLUM JOCABIMUS.
——NOS AD MANUM BALLUM JOCABIMUS。

Stephen, in the act of being led away, caught sight of MacCann’s flushed blunt-featured face.
史蒂芬在被带走时，看到了麦坎恩那张通红、呆板的脸。

—My signature is of no account, he said politely. You are right to go your way. Leave me to go mine.
——我的签名并不重要，他礼貌地说。你走你的路是对的。留下我去我的吧。

—Dedalus, said MacCann crisply, I believe you’re a good fellow but you have yet to learn the dignity of altruism and the responsibility of the human individual.
——德达勒斯，麦肯干脆地说，我相信你是个好人，但你还没有学会利他主义的尊严和人类个体的责任。

A voice said:
一个声音说道：

—Intellectual crankery is better out of this movement than in it.
——智力上的暴躁在这场运动中比在运动中更好。

Stephen, recognizing the harsh tone of MacAlister’s voice did not turn in the direction of the voice. Cranly pushed solemnly through the throng of students, linking Stephen and Temple like a celebrant attended by his ministers on his way to the altar.
斯蒂芬听出了麦卡利斯特刺耳的语气，并没有转向声音的方向。克兰利庄严地穿过人群，将史蒂芬和坦普尔联系在一起，就像一个在牧师们的陪伴下走向圣坛的司仪一样。

Temple bent eagerly across Cranly’s breast and said:
坦普尔热切地弯下腰，靠在克兰利的胸前说道：

—Did you hear MacAlister what he said? That youth is jealous of you. Did you see that? I bet Cranly didn’t see that. By hell, I saw that at once.
——你听到麦卡利斯特说的话了吗？那个年轻人嫉妒你。你看到了吗？我敢打赌克兰利没有看到这一点。天哪，我立刻就看到了。

As they crossed the inner hall, the dean of studies was in the act of escaping from the student with whom he had been conversing. He stood at the foot of the staircase, a foot on the lowest step, his threadbare soutane gathered about him for the ascent with womanish care, nodding his head often and repeating:
当他们穿过内厅时，教务主任正在逃离正在与他交谈的学生。他站在楼梯脚下，一只脚踩在最低的一级台阶上，他那破旧的苏坦尼以女人般的小心翼翼地裹住了他，时不时地点点头，重复道：

—Not a doubt of it, Mr Hackett! Very fine! Not a doubt of it!
——毫无疑问，哈克特先生！很好！毫无疑问！

In the middle of the hall the prefect of the college sodality was speaking earnestly, in a soft querulous voice, with a boarder. As he spoke he wrinkled a little his freckled brow and bit, between his phrases, at a tiny bone pencil.
大厅中央，学院联谊会的长官正在用一种轻柔的、充满抱怨的声音，认真地对一位寄宿生说话。他一边说话，一边微微皱起了长满雀斑的额头，说话间咬住了一支小骨铅笔。

—I hope the matric men will all come. The first arts’ men are pretty sure. Second arts, too. We must make sure of the newcomers.
——希望矩阵人都来。第一艺术界的人非常肯定。第二艺术也是如此。我们必须确保新人。

Temple bent again across Cranly, as they were passing through the doorway, and said in a swift whisper:
当他们穿过门口时，坦普尔再次弯下腰，轻声说道：

—Do you know that he is a married man? he was a married man before they converted him. He has a wife and children somewhere. By hell, I think that’s the queerest notion I ever heard! Eh?
——你知道他是已婚男人吗？在他们改变他之前，他是一个已婚男人。他在某个地方有妻子和孩子。天哪，我认为这是我听过的最奇怪的想法！呃？

His whisper trailed off into sly cackling laughter. The moment they were through the doorway Cranly seized him rudely by the neck and shook him, saying:
他的低语渐渐变成狡猾的咯咯笑声。他们一进门口，克兰利就粗鲁地掐住他的脖子，摇晃他，说道：

—You flaming floundering fool! I’ll take my dying bible there isn’t a bigger bloody ape, do you know, than you in the whole flaming bloody world!
——你这个燃烧着挣扎的傻瓜！我会带着我临终的圣经，你知道吗，在整个燃烧的血腥世界里，没有比你更大的血腥猿了！

Temple wriggled in his grip, laughing still with sly content, while Cranly repeated flatly at every rude shake:
坦普尔在他的手里扭动着，仍然狡猾地大笑着，而克兰利则对每一次粗鲁的摇晃都直截了当地重复道：

—A flaming flaring bloody idiot!
——一个燃烧的该死的白痴！

They crossed the weedy garden together. The president, wrapped in a heavy loose cloak, was coming towards them along one of the walks, reading his office. At the end of the walk he halted before turning and raised his eyes. The students saluted, Temple fumbling as before at the peak of his cap. They walked forward in silence. As they neared the alley Stephen could hear the thuds of the players’ hands and the wet smacks of the ball and Davin’s voice crying out excitedly at each stroke.
他们一起穿过杂草丛生的花园。总统裹着一件厚重的宽松斗篷，沿着一条人行道向他们走来，正在阅读他的办公室。走到尽头时，他停了下来，然后转身抬起了眼睛。学生们敬礼，坦普尔像以前一样在帽檐上摸索着。他们默默地向前走去。当他们接近小巷时，斯蒂芬能听到球员们双手的重击声、球湿漉漉的拍击声和达文每次击球时兴奋地喊叫的声音。

The three students halted round the box on which Davin sat to follow the game. Temple, after a few moments, sidled across to Stephen and said:
三个学生在达文坐的包厢周围停下来观看比赛。过了一会儿，坦普尔侧身对斯蒂芬说道：

—Excuse me, I wanted to ask you, do you believe that Jean-Jacques Rousseau was a sincere man?
——请问，我想问你，你相信让·雅克·卢梭是一个真诚的人吗？

Stephen laughed outright. Cranly, picking up the broken stave of a cask from the grass at his feet, turned swiftly and said sternly:
斯蒂芬大笑起来。克兰利从脚下的草丛中捡起一根木桶的断条，迅速转身，严厉地说：

—Temple, I declare to the living God if you say another word, do you know, to anybody on any subject, I’ll kill you SUPER SPOTTUM.
——坦普尔，我向永生上帝宣告，如果你对任何人在任何话题上再多说一句话，你知道吗，我会杀掉你。

—He was like you, I fancy, said Stephen, an emotional man.
——我想，他就像你一样，斯蒂芬说，是一个情绪化的人。

—Blast him, curse him! said Cranly broadly. Don’t talk to him at all. Sure, you might as well be talking, do you know, to a flaming chamber-pot as talking to Temple. Go home, Temple. For God’s sake, go home.
——诅咒他，诅咒他！克兰利宽泛地说。根本不要和他说话。当然，你知道吗，你跟坦普尔说话还不如对着燃烧的夜壶说话。回家吧，坦普尔。看在上帝的份上，回家吧。

—I don’t care a damn about you, Cranly, answered Temple, moving out of reach of the uplifted stave and pointing at Stephen. He’s the only man I see in this institution that has an individual mind.
——我一点也不在乎你，克兰利，坦普尔回答道，他移到了举起的木棍够不到的地方，指着斯蒂芬。他是我在这个机构中看到的唯一一个有个人思想的人。

—Institution! Individual! cried Cranly. Go home, blast you, for you’re a hopeless bloody man.
-机构！个人！克兰利喊道。回家去吧，炸死你，因为你是一个无可救药的血腥男人。

—I’m an emotional man, said Temple. That’s quite rightly expressed. And I’m proud that I’m an emotionalist.
——我是一个情绪化的人，坦普尔说。这句话表达得非常正确。我很自豪我是一个情感主义者。

He sidled out of the alley, smiling slyly. Cranly watched him with a blank expressionless face.
他侧身走出巷子，嘴角挂着狡黠的笑容。克兰利面无表情地看着他。

—Look at him! he said. Did you ever see such a go-by-the-wall?
-看着他！他说。你见过这样的走马观花吗？

His phrase was greeted by a strange laugh from a student who lounged against the wall, his peaked cap down on his eyes. The laugh, pitched in a high key and coming from a so muscular frame, seemed like the whinny of an elephant. The student’s body shook all over and, to ease his mirth, he rubbed both his hands delightedly over his groins.
迎接他这句话的是一名学生发出奇怪的笑声，他靠在墙上，鸭舌帽低垂在眼睛上。肌肉发达的人发出高调的笑声，听起来就像大象的嘶鸣。学生浑身颤抖，为了平息笑意，他高兴地用双手搓着腹股沟。

—Lynch is awake, said Cranly.
——林奇醒了，克兰利说。

Lynch, for answer, straightened himself and thrust forward his chest.
林奇挺直了身子，挺起胸膛作为回答。

—Lynch puts out his chest, said Stephen, as a criticism of life.
——林奇挺起胸膛，斯蒂芬说，这是对生活的批评。

Lynch smote himself sonorously on the chest and said:
林奇重重地拍着自己的胸口说道：

—Who has anything to say about my girth?
——谁对我的腰围有话要说？

Cranly took him at the word and the two began to tussle. When their faces had flushed with the struggle they drew apart, panting. Stephen bent down towards Davin who, intent on the game, had paid no heed to the talk of the others.
克兰利听信了他的话，两人开始扭打起来。当他们的脸因挣扎而涨红时，他们气喘吁吁地分开了。斯蒂芬向达文弯下腰，达文专注于游戏，没有理会其他人的谈话。

—And how is my little tame goose? he asked. Did he sign, too?
——我的小驯鹅怎么样了？他问。他也签字了吗？

David nodded and said:
大卫点点头说道：

—And you, Stevie?
——你呢，史蒂维？

Stephen shook his head.
史蒂芬摇摇头。

—You’re a terrible man, Stevie, said Davin, taking the short pipe from his mouth, always alone.
——你是个可怕的人，史蒂维，达文说着，从嘴里拿走了短管，总是孤身一人。

—Now that you have signed the petition for universal peace, said Stephen, I suppose you will burn that little copybook I saw in your room.
——既然你已经签署了世界和平请愿书，斯蒂芬说，我想你会烧掉我在你房间里看到的那本小抄写本。

As Davin did not answer, Stephen began to quote:
由于达文没有回答，斯蒂芬开始引用：

—Long pace, fianna! Right incline, fianna! Fianna, by numbers, salute, one, two!
——长步，菲亚娜！右倾，菲安娜！菲亚娜，按数字，敬礼，一，二！

—That’s a different question, said Davin. I’m an Irish nationalist, first and foremost. But that’s you all out. You’re a born sneerer, Stevie.
——这是一个不同的问题，达文说。首先，我是一名爱尔兰民族主义者。但那就是你们全部了。你是个天生的冷笑者，史蒂维。

—When you make the next rebellion with hurleysticks, said Stephen, and want the indispensable informer, tell me. I can find you a few in this college.
——史蒂芬说，当你用飓风棒进行下一次叛乱，并想要不可或缺的告密者时，请告诉我。我可以在这所大学里找到你几个。

—I can’t understand you, said Davin. One time I hear you talk against English literature. Now you talk against the Irish informers. What with your name and your ideas—Are you Irish at all?
——我听不懂你的话，达文说。有一次我听到你反对英国文学。现在你又开始反对爱尔兰告密者了。你的名字和你的想法怎么样——你到底是爱尔兰人吗？

—Come with me now to the office of arms and I will show you the tree of my family, said Stephen.
——现在跟我一起去武器办公室吧，我会给你看我家的树，史蒂芬说。

—Then be one of us, said Davin. Why don’t you learn Irish? Why did you drop out of the league class after the first lesson?
——那就成为我们中的一员吧，达文说。你为什么不学爱尔兰语？为什么第一节课后你就退学了？

—You know one reason why, answered Stephen.
——你知道一个原因，史蒂芬回答道。

Davin tossed his head and laughed.
达文摇头大笑。

—Oh, come now, he said. Is it on account of that certain young lady and Father Moran? But that’s all in your own mind, Stevie. They were only talking and laughing.
——噢，来吧，他说。难道是因为那位小姐和莫兰神父的缘故？但这都是你自己的想法，史蒂维。他们只是有说有笑。

Stephen paused and laid a friendly hand upon Davin’s shoulder.
斯蒂芬停下来，友好地把手放在达文的肩膀上。

—Do you remember, he said, when we knew each other first? The first morning we met you asked me to show you the way to the matriculation class, putting a very strong stress on the first syllable. You remember? Then you used to address the jesuits as father, you remember? I ask myself about you: IS HE AS INNOCENT AS HIS SPEECH?
——他说，你还记得我们第一次认识的时候吗？我们见面的第一天早上，你让我带你去预科班的路，对第一个音节施加了很大的压力。你记得？然后你曾经称呼耶稣会士为父亲，你还记得吗？关于你，我问自己：他是否像他的言论一样天真无邪？

—I’m a simple person, said Davin. You know that. When you told me that night in Harcourt Street those things about your private life, honest to God, Stevie, I was not able to eat my dinner. I was quite bad. I was awake a long time that night. Why did you tell me those things?
——我是一个简单的人，达文说。你懂的。那天晚上，当你在哈考特街告诉我那些关于你私生活的事情时，老实说，史蒂夫，我没能吃晚饭。我的情况很糟糕。那天晚上我醒了很长时间。你为什么告诉我这些事情？

—Thanks, said Stephen. You mean I am a monster.
——谢谢，斯蒂芬说。你的意思是我是怪物。

—No, said Davin. But I wish you had not told me.
——不，达文说。但我希望你没有告诉我。

A tide began to surge beneath the calm surface of Stephen’s friendliness.
斯蒂芬平静的友善表面之下开始涌动着一股浪潮。

—This race and this country and this life produced me, he said I shall express myself as I am.
——这个种族、这个国家、这个生活产生了我，他说我要表达我自己。

—Try to be one of us, repeated Davin. In heart you are an Irish man but your pride is too powerful.
——努力成为我们中的一员，达文重复道。本质上你是爱尔兰人，但你的骄傲太强大了。

—My ancestors threw off their language and took another Stephen said. They allowed a handful of foreigners to subject them. Do you fancy I am going to pay in my own life and person debts they made? What for?
——我的祖先抛弃了他们的语言，采用了另一种语言，斯蒂芬说。他们允许少数外国人来管辖他们。你认为我会用自己的生命和个人偿还他们所欠的债务吗？做什么的？

—For our freedom, said Davin.
——为了我们的自由，达文说。

—No honourable and sincere man, said Stephen, has given up to you his life and his youth and his affections from the days of Tone to those of Parnell, but you sold him to the enemy or failed him in need or reviled him and left him for another. And you invite me to be one of you. I’d see you damned first.
——史蒂芬说，从托恩时代到帕内尔时代，没有一个正直而真诚的人把他的生命、青春和感情交给了你，但你把他卖给了敌人，或者让他陷入困境，或者辱骂了他然后离开了。他为了另一个。你邀请我成为你们中的一员。我会先看到你该死的。

—They died for their ideals, Stevie, said Davin. Our day will come yet, believe me.
——他们为自己的理想而死，史蒂维，达文说。我们的日子还会到来，相信我。

Stephen, following his own thought, was silent for an instant.
斯蒂芬按照自己的想法，沉默了一会儿。

—The soul is born, he said vaguely, first in those moments I told you of. It has a slow and dark birth, more mysterious than the birth of the body. When the soul of a man is born in this country there are nets flung at it to hold it back from flight. You talk to me of nationality, language, religion. I shall try to fly by those nets.
——灵魂诞生了，他含糊地说，首先是在我告诉你的那些时刻。它有着缓慢而黑暗的诞生，比肉身的诞生还要神秘。当一个人的灵魂在这个国家诞生时，就会有网撒向他，阻止他飞翔。你跟我谈论国籍、语言、宗教。我将尝试通过这些网飞行。

Davin knocked the ashes from his pipe.
达文敲掉了烟斗里的灰烬。

—Too deep for me, Stevie, he said. But a man’s country comes first. Ireland first, Stevie. You can be a poet or a mystic after.
——对我来说太深了，史蒂维，他说。但男人的国家是第一位的。首先是爱尔兰，史蒂维。之后你可以成为诗人或神秘主义者。

—Do you know what Ireland is? asked Stephen with cold violence. Ireland is the old sow that eats her farrow.
——你知道爱尔兰是什么吗？史蒂芬冷冷地问道。爱尔兰是一头吃掉自己产仔的老母猪。

Davin rose from his box and went towards the players, shaking his head sadly. But in a moment his sadness left him and he was hotly disputing with Cranly and the two players who had finished their game. A match of four was arranged, Cranly insisting, however, that his ball should be used. He let it rebound twice or thrice to his hand and struck it strongly and swiftly towards the base of the alley, exclaiming in answer to its thud:
达文从包厢里站起来，走向球员们，悲伤地摇着头。但过了一会儿，他的悲伤就消失了，他开始与克兰利和两名已经完成比赛的球员激烈争论。安排了一场四人比赛，但克兰利坚持认为应该使用他的球。他让它反弹到手上两三次，然后用力而迅速地将它击向巷子的底部，回应它的重击声，大声喊道：

—Your soul!
-你的灵魂！

Stephen stood with Lynch till the score began to rise. Then he plucked him by the sleeve to come away. Lynch obeyed, saying:
斯蒂芬和林奇站在一起，直到比分开始上升。然后拉着他的袖子要走。林奇听从了，说道：

—Let us eke go, as Cranly has it.
——正如克兰利所说，我们走吧。

Stephen smiled at this side-thrust.
斯蒂芬对这个侧推微笑了。

They passed back through the garden and out through the hall where the doddering porter was pinning up a hall notice in the frame. At the foot of the steps they halted and Stephen took a packet of cigarettes from his pocket and offered it to his companion.
他们穿过花园，穿过大厅，年迈的门房正在门框上钉一张大厅告示。他们在台阶下停了下来，斯蒂芬从口袋里掏出一包香烟，递给他的同伴。

—I know you are poor, he said.
——我知道你很穷，他说。

—Damn your yellow insolence, answered Lynch.
——该死的，你的无礼无礼，林奇回答道。

This second proof of Lynch’s culture made Stephen smile again.
林奇文化的第二次证明让斯蒂芬再次微笑。

—It was a great day for European culture, he said, when you made up your mind to swear in yellow.
——对于欧洲文化来说，这是伟大的一天，他说，当你下定决心穿黄色宣誓时。

They lit their cigarettes and turned to the right. After a pause Stephen began:
他们点燃香烟，然后向右转。停顿了一下，斯蒂芬开始说道：

—Aristotle has not defined pity and terror. I have. I say—
——亚里士多德没有给怜悯和恐怖下定义。我有。我说-

Lynch halted and said bluntly:
林奇停了下来，直截了当地说道：

—Stop! I won’t listen! I am sick. I was out last night on a yellow drunk with Horan and Goggins.
-停止！我不听！我病了。昨晚我和霍兰、戈金斯一起喝了一杯黄酒。

Stephen went on:
斯蒂芬继续说道：

—Pity is the feeling which arrests the mind in the presence of whatsoever is grave and constant in human sufferings and unites it with the human sufferer. Terror is the feeling which arrests the mind in the presence of whatsoever is grave and constant in human sufferings and unites it with the secret cause.
——怜悯是一种情感，它能在人类遭受严重而持续的痛苦时抓住心灵，并将其与人类受难者团结起来。恐惧是一种感觉，当人类遭受严重而持续的痛苦时，它会抑制人们的思想，并将其与秘密原因结合起来。

—Repeat, said Lynch.
——重复一遍，林奇说。

Stephen repeated the definitions slowly.
斯蒂芬慢慢地重复着这些定义。

—A girl got into a hansom a few days ago, he went on, in London. She was on her way to meet her mother whom she had not seen for many years. At the corner of a street the shaft of a lorry shivered the window of the hansom in the shape of a star. A long fine needle of the shivered glass pierced her heart. She died on the instant. The reporter called it a tragic death. It is not. It is remote from terror and pity according to the terms of my definitions.
——几天前，一个女孩在伦敦坐上了一辆双轮马车，他继续说道。她正在去见多年未见的母亲的路上。在街角，一辆卡车的车轴将双轮马车的窗户摇晃得像一颗星星。颤抖的玻璃上有一根长长的细针刺穿了她的心脏。她当场就死了。记者称其为悲惨死亡。它不是。根据我的定义，它远离恐怖和怜悯。

—The tragic emotion, in fact, is a face looking two ways, towards terror and towards pity, both of which are phases of it. You see I use the word ARREST. I mean that the tragic emotion is static. Or rather the dramatic emotion is. The feelings excited by improper art are kinetic, desire or loathing. Desire urges us to possess, to go to something; loathing urges us to abandon, to go from something. The arts which excite them, pornographical or didactic, are therefore improper arts. The esthetic emotion (I used the general term) is therefore static. The mind is arrested and raised above desire and loathing.
——事实上，悲剧情绪是一张脸朝两个方向看，朝向恐怖和怜悯，这两者都是它的阶段。你看我用了“逮捕”这个词。我的意思是，悲剧情感是静态的。或者更确切地说，戏剧性的情感是。不恰当的艺术所激发的情感是动态的、欲望的或厌恶的。欲望促使我们去占有、去追求某事；厌恶促使我们放弃、离开某事。因此，那些令他们兴奋的艺术，无论是色情的还是说教的，都是不正当的艺术。因此，审美情感（我使用通用术语）是静态的。心智被束缚并超越欲望和厌恶。

—You say that art must not excite desire, said Lynch. I told you that one day I wrote my name in pencil on the backside of the Venus of Praxiteles in the Museum. Was that not desire?
——你说艺术不能激发欲望，林奇说。我告诉过你，有一天我用铅笔在博物馆的普拉克西特列斯维纳斯的背面写下了我的名字。那不是欲望吗？

—I speak of normal natures, said Stephen. You also told me that when you were a boy in that charming carmelite school you ate pieces of dried cowdung.
——我说的是正常本性，斯蒂芬说。你还告诉我，当你还是个男孩时，在那所迷人的加尔默罗会学校里，你吃了干牛粪。

Lynch broke again into a whinny of laughter and again rubbed both his hands over his groins but without taking them from his pockets.
林奇再次发出一阵笑声，并再次用双手摩擦着腹股沟，但没有将它们从口袋里拿出来。

—O, I did! I did! he cried.
——噢，我做到了！我做到了！他哭了。

Stephen turned towards his companion and looked at him for a moment boldly in the eyes. Lynch, recovering from his laughter, answered his look from his humbled eyes. The long slender flattened skull beneath the long pointed cap brought before Stephen’s mind the image of a hooded reptile. The eyes, too, were reptile-like in glint and gaze. Yet at that instant, humbled and alert in their look, they were lit by one tiny human point, the window of a shrivelled soul, poignant and self-embittered.
史蒂芬转向他的同伴，眼神大胆地看了他一会儿。林奇从笑声中恢复过来，用谦卑的眼神回应了他的目光。长尖帽下的细长扁平头骨让史蒂芬脑海中浮现出一种带兜帽的爬行动物的形象。眼睛的闪烁和凝视也像爬行动物。然而在那一瞬间，他们的神情谦卑而警觉，被一个微小的人性点照亮，那是枯萎灵魂的窗户，令人心酸又自怨自艾。

—As for that, Stephen said in polite parenthesis, we are all animals. I also am an animal.
——至于这一点，史蒂芬礼貌地用括号说道，我们都是动物。我也是动物。

—You are, said Lynch.
——你是的，林奇说。

—But we are just now in a mental world, Stephen continued. The desire and loathing excited by improper esthetic means are really not esthetic emotions not only because they are kinetic in character but also because they are not more than physical. Our flesh shrinks from what it dreads and responds to the stimulus of what it desires by a purely reflex action of the nervous system. Our eyelid closes before we are aware that the fly is about to enter our eye.
——但我们现在正处于一个精神世界，斯蒂芬继续说道。不恰当的审美手段所激发的欲望和厌恶实际上并不是审美情感，不仅因为它们在性质上是动态的，而且还因为它们只不过是身体上的情感。我们的肉体会因害怕的事物而畏缩，并通过神经系统的纯粹反射动作对所渴望的事物的刺激做出反应。在我们意识到苍蝇即将进入我们的眼睛之前，我们的眼睑就闭合了。

—Not always, said Lynch critically.
——并不总是如此，林奇批评道。

—In the same way, said Stephen, your flesh responded to the stimulus of a naked statue, but it was, I say, simply a reflex action of the nerves. Beauty expressed by the artist cannot awaken in us an emotion which is kinetic or a sensation which is purely physical. It awakens, or ought to awaken, or induces, or ought to induce, an esthetic stasis, an ideal pity or an ideal terror, a stasis called forth, prolonged, and at last dissolved by what I call the rhythm of beauty.
——同样，斯蒂芬说，你的肉体对裸体雕像的刺激有反应，但我说，这只是神经的反射动作。艺术家所表达的美无法唤醒我们的动态情感或纯粹物理的感觉。它唤醒，或者应该唤醒，或者诱导，或者应该诱导，一种审美的停滞，一种理想的怜悯或一种理想的恐怖，一种被我所说的美的节奏所唤起、延长并最终溶解的停滞。

—What is that exactly? asked Lynch.
——那到底是什么？林奇问道。

—Rhythm, said Stephen, is the first formal esthetic relation of part to part in any esthetic whole or of an esthetic whole to its part or parts or of any part to the esthetic whole of which it is a part.
——斯蒂芬说，节奏是任何审美整体中的部分与部分之间、或者一个审美整体与其一个或多个部分之间、或者任何一个部分与其所属的审美整体之间的第一个正式的审美关系。

—If that is rhythm, said Lynch, let me hear what you call beauty; and, please remember, though I did eat a cake of cowdung once, that I admire only beauty.
——如果这就是节奏，林奇说，让我听听你所谓的美；而且，请记住，虽然我曾经吃过一块牛粪蛋糕，但我只欣赏美丽。

Stephen raised his cap as if in greeting. Then, blushing slightly, he laid his hand on Lynch’s thick tweed sleeve.
斯蒂芬举起帽子，仿佛在打招呼。然后，他脸微红，把手放在林奇厚实的花呢袖子上。

—We are right, he said, and the others are wrong. To speak of these things and to try to understand their nature and, having understood it, to try slowly and humbly and constantly to express, to press out again, from the gross earth or what it brings forth, from sound and shape and colour which are the prison gates of our soul, an image of the beauty we have come to understand—that is art.
——我们是对的，他说，其他人都是错的。谈论这些事物并试图理解它们的本质，在理解了它之后，尝试慢慢地、谦虚地、不断地表达、再次从粗糙的地球或它所产生的东西、从声音、形状和颜色中表达出来。是我们灵魂的监狱之门，是我们逐渐理解的美的形象——这就是艺术。

They had reached the canal bridge and, turning from their course, went on by the trees. A crude grey light, mirrored in the sluggish water and a smell of wet branches over their heads seemed to war against the course of Stephen’s thought.
他们到达了运河桥，然后改变路线，沿着树林继续前行。一道粗糙的灰色光芒，倒映在缓慢的水面上，还有他们头顶上的湿树枝的气味，似乎与斯蒂芬的思维进程相悖。

—But you have not answered my question, said Lynch. What is art? What is the beauty it expresses?
——但你还没有回答我的问题，林奇说。什么是艺术？它所表达的美是什么？

—That was the first definition I gave you, you sleepy-headed wretch, said Stephen, when I began to try to think out the matter for myself. Do you remember the night? Cranly lost his temper and began to talk about Wicklow bacon.
——这是我给你的第一个定义，你这个昏昏欲睡的坏蛋，当我开始尝试自己思考这个问题时，斯蒂芬说。你还记得那个夜晚吗？克兰利发脾气了，开始谈论威克洛培根。

—I remember, said Lynch. He told us about them flaming fat devils of pigs.
——我记得，林奇说。他向我们讲述了那些燃烧的肥猪恶魔。

—Art, said Stephen, is the human disposition of sensible or intelligible matter for an esthetic end. You remember the pigs and forget that. You are a distressing pair, you and Cranly.
——史蒂芬说，艺术是人类为了审美目的而对感性或可理解的事物的处理。你记得猪，却忘记了。你和克兰利是令人痛苦的一对。

Lynch made a grimace at the raw grey sky and said:
林奇对着灰暗的天空做了个鬼脸，说道：

—If I am to listen to your esthetic philosophy give me at least another cigarette. I don’t care about it. I don’t even care about women. Damn you and damn everything. I want a job of five hundred a year. You can’t get me one.
——如果我要听听你的审美哲学，至少再给我一根烟。我不在乎。我什至不关心女人。该死的你，该死的一切。我想要一份年薪五百的工作。你给我买不到一个。

Stephen handed him the packet of cigarettes. Lynch took the last one that remained, saying simply:
斯蒂芬把一包香烟递给他。林奇接过剩下的最后一张，简单地说：

—Proceed!
-继续！

—Aquinas, said Stephen, says that is beautiful the apprehension of which pleases.
——阿奎那，斯蒂芬说，说令人愉悦的忧虑是美丽的。

Lynch nodded.
林奇点点头。

—I remember that, he said, PULCRA SUNT QUAE VISA PLACENT.
——我记得，他说，PULCRA SUNT QUAE VISA PLACENT。

—He uses the word VISA, said Stephen, to cover esthetic apprehensions of all kinds, whether through sight or hearing or through any other avenue of apprehension. This word, though it is vague, is clear enough to keep away good and evil which excite desire and loathing. It means certainly a stasis and not a kinesis. How about the true? It produces also a stasis of the mind. You would not write your name in pencil across the hypotenuse of a right-angled triangle.
——斯蒂芬说，他使用“VISA”这个词来涵盖各种审美理解，无论是通过视觉、听觉还是通过任何其他方式的理解。此言虽含糊，却足以远离善恶，激起贪欲与厌恶。这当然意味着停滞而不是运动。真实的又如何呢？它还会产生心灵的停滞。你不会用铅笔把你的名字写在直角三角形的斜边上。

—No, said Lynch, give me the hypotenuse of the Venus of Praxiteles.
——不，林奇说，给我普拉克西特莱斯维纳斯的斜边。

—Static therefore, said Stephen. Plato, I believe, said that beauty is the splendour of truth. I don’t think that it has a meaning, but the true and the beautiful are akin. Truth is beheld by the intellect which is appeased by the most satisfying relations of the intelligible; beauty is beheld by the imagination which is appeased by the most satisfying relations of the sensible. The first step in the direction of truth is to understand the frame and scope of the intellect itself, to comprehend the act itself of intellection. Aristotle’s entire system of philosophy rests upon his book of psychology and that, I think, rests on his statement that the same attribute cannot at the same time and in the same connexion belong to and not belong to the same subject. The first step in the direction of beauty is to understand the frame and scope of the imagination, to comprehend the act itself of esthetic apprehension. Is that clear?
——所以是静态的，史蒂芬说。我相信柏拉图说过，美是真理的光辉。我不认为它有任何意义，但真与美是相似的。真理是由理智所看到的，理智被最令人满意的可理解事物的关系所安抚。美是通过想象力来观察的，而想象力是通过最令人满意的感性关系而得到满足的。走向真理的第一步是理解智力本身的框架和范围，理解智力的行为本身。亚里士多德的整个哲学体系都建立在他的心理学著作的基础上，而我认为，这也建立在他的陈述之上，即同一属性不能同时在同一关系中属于或不属于同一主体。走向美的第一步是理解想象的框架和范围，理解审美理解的行为本身。明白了吗？

—But what is beauty? asked Lynch impatiently. Out with another definition. Something we see and like! Is that the best you and Aquinas can do?
——但是什么是美呢？林奇不耐烦地问道。出了另一个定义。我们看到并喜欢的东西！这是你和阿奎那能做的最好的事情吗？

—Let us take woman, said Stephen.
——让我们以女人为例，斯蒂芬说。

—Let us take her! said Lynch fervently.
——我们带她走吧！林奇热切地说。

—The Greek, the Turk, the Chinese, the Copt, the Hottentot, said Stephen, all admire a different type of female beauty. That seems to be a maze out of which we cannot escape. I see, however, two ways out. One is this hypothesis: that every physical quality admired by men in women is in direct connexion with the manifold functions of women for the propagation of the species. It may be so. The world, it seems, is drearier than even you, Lynch, imagined. For my part I dislike that way out. It leads to eugenics rather than to esthetic. It leads you out of the maze into a new gaudy lecture-room where MacCann, with one hand on THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES and the other hand on the new testament, tells you that you admired the great flanks of Venus because you felt that she would bear you burly offspring and admired her great breasts because you felt that she would give good milk to her children and yours.
——斯蒂芬说，希腊人、土耳其人、中国人、科普特人、霍屯督人都欣赏不同类型的女性之美。这似乎是一个我们无法逃脱的迷宫。然而，我看到了两条出路。其中之一是这样的假设：男性所欣赏的女性的每一项身体素质都与女性繁衍物种的多种功能直接相关。也许是这样。林奇，这个世界似乎比你想象的还要沉闷。就我而言，我不喜欢这种出路。它导致优生学而不是美学。它带领你走出迷宫，进入一个新的华丽的演讲室，麦肯一只手写着《物种起源》，另一只手写着《新约》，告诉你你钦佩维纳斯的伟大侧翼，因为你觉得她会为你生下魁梧的后代，并欣赏她巨大的乳房，因为你觉得她会给她的孩子和你的孩子提供优质的牛奶。

—Then MacCann is a sulphur-yellow liar, said Lynch energetically.
——那么麦卡恩就是个硫黄骗子，林奇精力充沛地说。

—There remains another way out, said Stephen, laughing.
——还有另一条出路，斯蒂芬笑着说。

—To wit? said Lynch.
-以机智？林奇说。

—This hypothesis, Stephen began.
——这个假设，史蒂芬开始了。

A long dray laden with old iron came round the corner of Sir Patrick Dun’s hospital covering the end of Stephen’s speech with the harsh roar of jangled and rattling metal. Lynch closed his ears and gave out oath after oath till the dray had passed. Then he turned on his heel rudely. Stephen turned also and waited for a few moments till his companion’s ill-humour had had its vent.
一辆满载旧铁的长马车驶过帕特里克·邓爵士医院的拐角处，金属叮当作响的刺耳轰鸣声掩盖了斯蒂芬演讲的结尾。林奇闭上耳朵，不断地发誓，直到马车过去。然后他粗鲁地转过身来。斯蒂芬也转过身，等了一会儿，直到他同伴的坏脾气发泄出来。

—This hypothesis, Stephen repeated, is the other way out: that, though the same object may not seem beautiful to all people, all people who admire a beautiful object find in it certain relations which satisfy and coincide with the stages themselves of all esthetic apprehension. These relations of the sensible, visible to you through one form and to me through another, must be therefore the necessary qualities of beauty. Now, we can return to our old friend saint Thomas for another pennyworth of wisdom.
——斯蒂芬重复说，这个假设是另一种出路：虽然同一个物体可能并不对所有人来说都是美丽的，但所有欣赏一个美丽物体的人都会在其中发现某些满足并符合所有审美阶段本身的关系。顾虑。因此，这些感性的关系，你通过一种形式可见，我通过另一种形式可见，因此必定是美的必要品质。现在，我们可以回到我们的老朋友圣托马斯那里，寻求另一点宝贵的智慧。

Lynch laughed.
林奇笑道。

—It amuses me vastly, he said, to hear you quoting him time after time like a jolly round friar. Are you laughing in your sleeve?
——他说，听到你像一位快乐的圆修士一样一次又一次地引用他的话，我感到非常有趣。你在袖子里笑吗？

—MacAlister, answered Stephen, would call my esthetic theory applied Aquinas. So far as this side of esthetic philosophy extends, Aquinas will carry me all along the line. When we come to the phenomena of artistic conception, artistic gestation, and artistic reproduction I require a new terminology and a new personal experience.
——麦卡利斯特，史蒂芬回答，称我的美学理论为应用阿奎那。就审美哲学的这一面而言，阿奎那将带领我一路走下去。当我们谈到艺术构思、艺术孕育和艺术再现的现象时，我需要新的术语和新的个人体验。

—Of course, said Lynch. After all Aquinas, in spite of his intellect, was exactly a good round friar. But you will tell me about the new personal experience and new terminology some other day. Hurry up and finish the first part.
——当然，林奇说。毕竟，尽管阿奎那很聪明，但他确实是一位优秀的修道士。但改天你会告诉我新的个人经历和新的术语。快点完成第一部分。

—Who knows? said Stephen, smiling. Perhaps Aquinas would understand me better than you. He was a poet himself. He wrote a hymn for Maundy Thursday. It begins with the words PANGE LINGUA GLORIOSI. They say it is the highest glory of the hymnal. It is an intricate and soothing hymn. I like it; but there is no hymn that can be put beside that mournful and majestic processional song, the VEXILLA REGIS of Venantius Fortunatus.
-谁知道？斯蒂芬微笑着说道。也许阿奎那会比你更了解我。他本人就是一位诗人。他为濯足节写了一首赞美诗。它以 PANGE LINGUA GLORIOSI 一词开头。他们说这是赞美诗的最高荣耀。这是一首复杂而舒缓的赞美诗。我喜欢;但是，除了维南提乌斯·福图纳图斯的《VEXILLA REGIS》这首悲伤而雄伟的游行歌曲之外，没有任何赞美诗可以与之媲美。

Lynch began to sing softly and solemnly in a deep bass voice:
林奇开始用低沉的低音轻柔而庄严地唱道：

IMPLETA SUNT QUAE CONCINIT
DAVID FIDELI CARMINE
大卫·菲德利·卡米恩

DICENDO NATIONIBUS
迪森多国家巴士

REGNAVIT A LIGNO DEUS.
REGNAVIT A LIGNO DEUS。

—That’s great! he said, well pleased. Great music!
-那太棒了！他很高兴地说。好听的音乐！

They turned into Lower Mount Street. A few steps from the corner a fat young man, wearing a silk neckcloth, saluted them and stopped.
他们拐进下山街。距离拐角几步远的地方，一个戴着丝绸领巾的肥胖年轻人向他们行了个礼，然后停了下来。

—Did you hear the results of the exams? he asked. Griffin was plucked. Halpin and O’Flynn are through the home civil. Moonan got fifth place in the Indian. O’Shaughnessy got fourteenth. The Irish fellows in Clark’s gave them a feed last night. They all ate curry.
——你听到考试结果了吗？他问。格里芬被拔掉了。哈尔平和奥弗林正在经历国内民事诉讼。穆南在印度赛中获得第五名。奥肖内西获得第十四名。克拉克店里的爱尔兰人昨晚给他们喂了饲料。他们都吃了咖喱。

His pallid bloated face expressed benevolent malice and, as he had advanced through his tidings of success, his small fat-encircled eyes vanished out of sight and his weak wheezing voice out of hearing.
他苍白浮肿的脸流露出仁慈的恶意，随着他成功的消息不断传来，他那双肥胖的小眼睛就消失在视线之外，他那微弱的喘息声也听不见了。

In reply to a question of Stephen’s his eyes and his voice came forth again from their lurking-places.
为了回答斯蒂芬的问题，他的眼睛和声音再次从隐藏的地方出现。

—Yes, MacCullagh and I, he said. He’s taking pure mathematics and I’m taking constitutional history. There are twenty subjects. I’m taking botany too. You know I’m a member of the field club.
——是的，麦卡拉和我，他说。他学纯数学，我学宪法史。有二十个科目。我也在学植物学。你知道我是野外俱乐部的成员。

He drew back from the other two in a stately fashion and placed a plump woollen-gloved hand on his breast from which muttered wheezing laughter at once broke forth.
他庄严地从另外两个人身边退开，把一只戴着羊毛手套的胖手放在胸前，手上立刻爆发出低沉、喘息的笑声。

—Bring us a few turnips and onions the next time you go out, said Stephen drily, to make a stew.
——下次出去的时候给我们带点萝卜和洋葱来，史蒂芬冷冷地说，用来炖菜。

The fat student laughed indulgently and said:
胖学生放肆一笑，说道：

—We are all highly respectable people in the field club. Last Saturday we went out to Glenmalure, seven of us.
——我们都是野外俱乐部里德高望重的人。上周六，我们七个人去了格伦马卢尔。

—With women, Donovan? said Lynch.
——多诺万，和女人在一起吗？林奇说。

Donovan again laid his hand on his chest and said:
多诺万再次把手放在胸前说道：

—Our end is the acquisition of knowledge. Then he said quickly:
——我们的目的是获取知识。然后他很快说道：

—I hear you are writing some essays about esthetics.
——听说你正在写一些关于美学的文章。

Stephen made a vague gesture of denial.
斯蒂芬做了一个含糊的否认手势。

—Goethe and Lessing, said Donovan, have written a lot on that subject, the classical school and the romantic school and all that. The Laocoon interested me very much when I read it. Of course it is idealistic, German, ultra-profound.
——多诺万说，歌德和莱辛在这个主题、古典学派和浪漫学派等等方面写了很多文章。当我读到《拉奥孔》时，我非常感兴趣。当然，它是理想主义的、德国的、极其深刻的。

Neither of the others spoke. Donovan took leave of them urbanely.
其他人都没有说话。多诺万彬彬有礼地向他们告别。

—I must go, he said softly and benevolently, I have a strong suspicion, amounting almost to a conviction, that my sister intended to make pancakes today for the dinner of the Donovan family.
——我必须走了，他温柔而仁慈地说，我强烈怀疑，几乎可以说是确信，我姐姐今天打算为多诺万一家的晚餐做煎饼。

—Goodbye, Stephen said in his wake. Don’t forget the turnips for me and my mate.
——再见，史蒂芬在他身后说道。别忘了给我和我的伙伴带萝卜。

Lynch gazed after him, his lip curling in slow scorn till his face resembled a devil’s mask:
林奇凝视着他的背影，他的嘴唇慢慢地翘起，露出轻蔑的表情，直到他的脸像一张魔鬼的面具：

—To think that that yellow pancake-eating excrement can get a good job, he said at length, and I have to smoke cheap cigarettes!
——那个吃煎饼的黄粪竟然能找到好工作，他最后说道，我还得抽廉价香烟！

They turned their faces towards Merrion Square and went for a little in silence.
他们把脸转向梅林广场，沉默地走了一会儿。

—To finish what I was saying about beauty, said Stephen, the most satisfying relations of the sensible must therefore correspond to the necessary phases of artistic apprehension. Find these and you find the qualities of universal beauty. Aquinas says: AD PULCRITUDINEM TRIA REQUIRUNTUR INTEGRITAS, CONSONANTIA, CLARITAS. I translate it so: THREE THINGS ARE NEEDED FOR BEAUTY, WHOLENESS, HARMONY, AND RADIANCE. Do these correspond to the phases of apprehension? Are you following?
——斯蒂芬说，为了完成我关于美的说法，最令人满意的感性关系必须与艺术理解的必要阶段相对应。找到这些，你就会发现普遍之美的品质。阿奎那说：AD PULCRITUDINEM TRIA REQUIRUNTUR INTEGRITAS、CONSONANTIA、CLARITAS。我这样翻译：美丽、完整、和谐和光彩需要三样东西。这些与忧虑的阶段相对应吗？你在追随吗？

—Of course, I am, said Lynch. If you think I have an excrementitious intelligence run after Donovan and ask him to listen to you.
——当然，我是，林奇说。如果你认为我智商低劣，就去追多诺万，让他听你的。

Stephen pointed to a basket which a butcher’s boy had slung inverted on his head.
斯蒂芬指着一个屠夫男孩倒挂在他头上的篮子。

—Look at that basket, he said.
——看看那个篮子，他说。

—I see it, said Lynch.
——我明白了，林奇说。

—In order to see that basket, said Stephen, your mind first of all separates the basket from the rest of the visible universe which is not the basket. The first phase of apprehension is a bounding line drawn about the object to be apprehended. An esthetic image is presented to us either in space or in time.
——为了看到那个篮子，史蒂芬说，你的思想首先将篮子与不是篮子的可见宇宙的其他部分分开。逮捕的第一阶段是围绕要逮捕的物体绘制边界线。审美形象要么在空间上要么在时间上呈现给我们。

What is audible is presented in time, what is visible is presented in space. But, temporal or spatial, the esthetic image is first luminously apprehended as selfbounded and selfcontained upon the immeasurable background of space or time which is not it. You apprehended it as ONE thing. You see it as one whole. You apprehend its wholeness. That is INTEGRITAS.
听觉的东西在时间中呈现，视觉的东西在空间中呈现。但是，无论是时间还是空间，审美意象首先被明确地理解为在不可估量的空间或时间背景上自我约束和自足，而事实并非如此。你把它理解为一件事。你将其视为一个整体。你领会了它的完整性。这就是 INTEGRITA。

—Bull’s eye! said Lynch, laughing. Go on.
——靶心！林奇笑着说。继续。

—Then, said Stephen, you pass from point to point, led by its formal lines; you apprehend it as balanced part against part within its limits; you feel the rhythm of its structure. In other words, the synthesis of immediate perception is followed by the analysis of apprehension. Having first felt that it is ONE thing you feel now that it is a THING. You apprehend it as complex, multiple, divisible, separable, made up of its parts, the result of its parts and their sum, harmonious. That is CONSONANTIA.
——然后，斯蒂芬说，你在正式线条的引导下从一个点走到另一个点；你把它理解为在其限度内的平衡部分；你感受到它结构的节奏。换句话说，即时感知的综合之后是忧虑的分析。第一次感觉到它是一件事，现在你感觉到它是一件事。你把它理解为复杂的、多重的、可分的、可分离的，由其各部分组成，各部分及其总和的结果，和谐。那就是Consonantia。

—Bull’s eye again! said Lynch wittily. Tell me now what is CLARITAS and you win the cigar.
——又是靶心！林奇机智地说。现在告诉我什么是 CLARITAS，您就赢得了雪茄。

—The connotation of the word, Stephen said, is rather vague. Aquinas uses a term which seems to be inexact. It baffled me for a long time. It would lead you to believe that he had in mind symbolism or idealism, the supreme quality of beauty being a light from some other world, the idea of which the matter is but the shadow, the reality of which it is but the symbol. I thought he might mean that CLARITAS is the artistic discovery and representation of the divine purpose in anything or a force of generalization which would make the esthetic image a universal one, make it outshine its proper conditions. But that is literary talk. I understand it so. When you have apprehended that basket as one thing and have then analysed it according to its form and apprehended it as a thing you make the only synthesis which is logically and esthetically permissible. You see that it is that thing which it is and no other thing. The radiance of which he speaks in the scholastic QUIDDITAS, the WHATNESS of a thing. This supreme quality is felt by the artist when the esthetic image is first conceived in his imagination. The mind in that mysterious instant Shelley likened beautifully to a fading coal. The instant wherein that supreme quality of beauty, the clear radiance of the esthetic image, is apprehended luminously by the mind which has been arrested by its wholeness and fascinated by its harmony is the luminous silent stasis of esthetic pleasure, a spiritual state very like to that cardiac condition which the Italian physiologist Luigi Galvani, using a phrase almost as beautiful as Shelley’s, called the enchantment of the heart.
——斯蒂芬说，这个词的含义相当模糊。阿奎那使用的术语似乎不准确。让我困惑了很长一段时间。这会让你相信他心中有象征主义或理想主义，美的最高品质是来自另一个世界的光，其物质只是影子，其现实只是象征。我想他的意思可能是 CLARITAS 是对任何事物的神圣目的的艺术发现和表现，或者是一种概括的力量，这将使审美形象成为普遍的形象，使其超越其适当的条件。但这是文学谈话。我是这么理解的。当你把那个篮子理解为一个东西，然后根据它的形式分析它，并将它理解为一个东西时，你就做出了逻辑上和美学上允许的唯一综合。你会发现它就是它本来的样子，而不是其他东西。他在学术著作《QUIDDITAS》中谈到的光辉，即事物的本质。当艺术家在想象中首次构思出审美形象时，就会感受到这种至高无上的品质。雪莱将那个神秘瞬间的心灵美丽地比作正在褪色的煤炭。当心灵明亮地领会美的最高品质，即审美意象的清澈光辉时，心灵已被它的整体性所吸引，并被它的和谐所吸引，这就是审美愉悦的明亮寂静的静止状态，一种非常类似于一种精神状态。意大利生理学家路易吉·加尔瓦尼（Luigi Galvani）用几乎与雪莱的短语一样美丽的短语将这种心脏病称为“心脏的魅力”。

Stephen paused and, though his companion did not speak, felt that his words had called up around them a thought-enchanted silence.
斯蒂芬停了下来，虽然他的同伴没有说话，但他觉得他的话让他们周围陷入了沉思的沉默。

—What I have said, he began again, refers to beauty in the wider sense of the word, in the sense which the word has in the literary tradition. In the marketplace it has another sense. When we speak of beauty in the second sense of the term our judgement is influenced in the first place by the art itself and by the form of that art. The image, it is clear, must be set between the mind or senses of the artist himself and the mind or senses of others. If you bear this in memory you will see that art necessarily divides itself into three forms progressing from one to the next. These forms are: the lyrical form, the form wherein the artist presents his image in immediate relation to himself; the epical form, the form wherein he presents his image in mediate relation to himself and to others; the dramatic form, the form wherein he presents his image in immediate relation to others.
——我所说的，他又开始说，指的是这个词更广泛的含义，即这个词在文学传统中的含义。在市场上它有另一种含义。当我们谈论美的第二种含义时，我们的判断首先受到艺术本身和艺术形式的影响。很明显，图像必须置于艺术家本人的思想或感官与他人的思想或感官之间。如果你记住这一点，你就会发现艺术必然分为三种形式，从一种发展到另一种。这些形式是： 抒情形式，艺术家呈现与自己直接相关的形象的形式；史诗形式，即他以与自己和他人之间的中介关系来呈现自己的形象的形式；戏剧形式，即他将自己的形象与他人直接联系起来的形式。

—That you told me a few nights ago, said Lynch, and we began the famous discussion.
——几天前你告诉我的，林奇说，然后我们就开始了著名的讨论。

—I have a book at home, said Stephen, in which I have written down questions which are more amusing than yours were. In finding the answers to them I found the theory of esthetic which I am trying to explain. Here are some questions I set myself: IS A CHAIR FINELY MADE TRAGIC OR COMIC? IS THE PORTRAIT OF MONA LISA GOOD IF I DESIRE TO SEE IT? IF NOT, WHY NOT?
——我家里有一本书，史蒂芬说，我在里面写下了比你的更有趣的问题。在寻找这些问题的答案时，我发现了我试图解释的美学理论。以下是我自己提出的一些问题：一把精心制作的椅子是悲剧还是喜剧？如果我想看的话，《蒙娜丽莎的肖像》好看吗？如果不，为什么不呢？

—Why not, indeed? said Lynch, laughing.
——确实，为什么不呢？林奇笑着说。

—IF A MAN HACKING IN FURY AT A BLOCK OF WOOD, Stephen continued, MAKE THERE AN IMAGE OF A COW, IS THAT IMAGE A WORK OF ART? IF NOT, WHY NOT?
——如果一个人愤怒地砍伐一块木头，斯蒂芬继续说道，制作一个牛的图像，这个图像是一件艺术品吗？如果不，为什么不呢？

—That’s a lovely one, said Lynch, laughing again. That has the true scholastic stink.
——这真是一件可爱的事，林奇说，又笑了。这才是真正的学术臭味。

—Lessing, said Stephen, should not have taken a group of statues to write of. The art, being inferior, does not present the forms I spoke of distinguished clearly one from another. Even in literature, the highest and most spiritual art, the forms are often confused. The lyrical form is in fact the simplest verbal vesture of an instant of emotion, a rhythmical cry such as ages ago cheered on the man who pulled at the oar or dragged stones up a slope. He who utters it is more conscious of the instant of emotion than of himself as feeling emotion. The simplest epical form is seen emerging out of lyrical literature when the artist prolongs and broods upon himself as the centre of an epical event and this form progresses till the centre of emotional gravity is equidistant from the artist himself and from others. The narrative is no longer purely personal. The personality of the artist passes into the narration itself, flowing round and round the persons and the action like a vital sea. This progress you will see easily in that old English ballad TURPIN HERO which begins in the first person and ends in the third person. The dramatic form is reached when the vitality which has flowed and eddied round each person fills every person with such vital force that he or she assumes a proper and intangible esthetic life. The personality of the artist, at first a cry or a cadence or a mood and then a fluid and lambent narrative, finally refines itself out of existence, impersonalizes itself, so to speak. The esthetic image in the dramatic form is life purified in and reprojected from the human imagination. The mystery of esthetic, like that of material creation, is accomplished. The artist, like the God of creation, remains within or behind or beyond or above his handiwork, invisible, refined out of existence, indifferent, paring his fingernails.
——斯蒂芬说，莱辛不应该拿一组雕像来写。艺术是低等的，它并没有呈现出我所说的清楚地区分的形式。即使在文学这种最高、最精神的艺术中，形式也常常是混乱的。事实上，抒情形式是瞬间情感的最简单的语言表现，一种有节奏的呼喊，就像很久以前为拉桨或拖石头上斜坡的人欢呼一样。说出这句话的人更能意识到情感的瞬间，而不是自己感受到的情感。最简单的史诗形式出现在抒情文学中，艺术家将自己作为史诗事件的中心进行延伸和沉思，这种形式不断发展，直到情感重心与艺术家本人和他人的距离相等。叙述不再纯粹是个人的。艺术家的个性融入到叙事本身，像充满活力的海洋一样围绕人物和动作流动。这一进展你可以在古老的英国民谣《TURPIN HERO》中轻松看到，它以第一人称开始，以第三人称结束。当每个人周围流动和涡流的生命力使每个人充满生命力，使他或她呈现出适当的、无形的审美生活时，就达到了戏剧性的形式。艺术家的个性，首先是一种哭泣、一种节奏或一种情绪，然后是一种流畅而柔和的叙述，最后可以说，从存在中提炼出自己，使自己非人格化。戏剧形式的审美形象是在人类想象中净化和重新投射的生命。审美的奥秘，就像物质创造的奥秘一样，已经完成了。 艺术家就像创造之神一样，留在他的作品之内或背后或之外或之上，看不见，精致得不存在，漠不关心，修剪着他的指甲。

—Trying to refine them also out of existence, said Lynch.
——林奇说，还试图将它们提炼为不存在。

A fine rain began to fall from the high veiled sky and they turned into the duke’s lawn to reach the national library before the shower came.
高高的天空下起了细雨，他们拐进公爵的草坪，在阵雨来临之前到达国家图书馆。

—What do you mean, Lynch asked surlily, by prating about beauty and the imagination in this miserable Godforsaken island? No wonder the artist retired within or behind his handiwork after having perpetrated this country.
——林奇阴沉地问，在这个被上帝遗弃的悲惨岛屿上大肆宣扬美丽和想象力是什么意思？难怪这位艺术家在破坏了这个国家之后就在他的作品中或背后退休了。

The rain fell faster. When they passed through the passage beside Kildare house they found many students sheltering under the arcade of the library. Cranly, leaning against a pillar, was picking his teeth with a sharpened match, listening to some companions. Some girls stood near the entrance door. Lynch whispered to Stephen:
雨下得更快了。当他们穿过基尔代尔学院旁边的通道时，发现许多学生躲在图书馆的拱廊下。克兰利靠在一根柱子上，用一根削尖的火柴剔牙，听着一些同伴的说话。一些女孩站在门口附近。林奇低声对斯蒂芬说：

—Your beloved is here.
——你的爱人在这里。

Stephen took his place silently on the step below the group of students, heedless of the rain which fell fast, turning his eyes towards her from time to time. She too stood silently among her companions. She has no priest to flirt with, he thought with conscious bitterness, remembering how he had seen her last. Lynch was right. His mind emptied of theory and courage, lapsed back into a listless peace.
斯蒂芬默默地站在学生群下面的台阶上，不顾雨下得很快，时不时地把目光转向她。她也静静地站在同伴中间。她没有牧师可以调情，他想起最后一次见到她的情景，心里苦涩地想。林奇是对的。他的头脑里空空了理论和勇气，陷入了无精打采的平静之中。

He heard the students talking among themselves. They spoke of two friends who had passed the final medical examination, of the chances of getting places on ocean liners, of poor and rich practices.
他听到学生们互相交​​谈。他们谈到了两个通过了最终体检的朋友，谈到了在远洋客轮上获得一席之地的机会，谈到了贫穷和富有的做法。

—That’s all a bubble. An Irish country practice is better.
——这一切都是泡沫。爱尔兰国家的做法更好。

—Hynes was two years in Liverpool and he says the same. A frightful hole he said it was. Nothing but midwifery cases.
——海因斯在利物浦呆了两年，他也这么说。他说那是一个可怕的洞。除了助产案例什么都没有。

—Do you mean to say it is better to have a job here in the country than in a rich city like that? I know a fellow...
——你的意思是说在乡下找工作比在那样富裕的城市找工作更好吗？我认识一个人...

—Hynes has no brains. He got through by stewing, pure stewing.
——海因斯没有脑子。他是靠熬过来的，纯粹的熬。

—Don’t mind him. There’s plenty of money to be made in a big commercial city.
——别理他。在大城市可以赚很多钱。

—Depends on the practice.
——取决于实践。

—EGO CREDO UT VITA PAUPERUM EST SIMPLICITER ATROX, SIMPLICITER SANGUINARIUS ATROX, IN LIVERPOOLIO.
—EGO CREDO UT VITA PAUPERUM EST SIMPLICITER ATROX，Simpliciter SANGUINARIUS ATROX，在利物浦。

Their voices reached his ears as if from a distance in interrupted pulsation. She was preparing to go away with her companions.
他们的声音传入他的耳中，仿佛从远处传来，断断续续的脉动。她正准备和同伴一起离开。

The quick light shower had drawn off, tarrying in clusters of diamonds among the shrubs of the quadrangle where an exhalation was breathed forth by the blackened earth. Their trim boots prattled as they stood on the steps of the colonnade, talking quietly and gaily, glancing at the clouds, holding their umbrellas at cunning angles against the few last raindrops, closing them again, holding their skirts demurely.
迅速的小雨已经落下，在四合院的灌木丛中以钻石簇的形式滞留，黑色的大地呼出一股呼气。当他们站在柱廊的台阶上时，整齐的靴子发出嘎嘎声，轻声而快活地交谈着，望着云彩，巧妙地撑着雨伞，抵住最后几滴雨滴，然后又合上，端庄地挽着裙子。

And if he had judged her harshly? If her life were a simple rosary of hours, her life simple and strange as a bird’s life, gay in the morning, restless all day, tired at sundown? Her heart simple and wilful as a bird’s heart?
如果他严厉地评判她呢？如果她的生活是一串简单的小时念珠，她的生活像鸟儿的生活一样简单而奇怪，早上快乐，整天焦躁不安，日落时疲倦？她的心单纯任性如鸟心？

*****

Towards dawn he awoke. O what sweet music! His soul was all dewy wet. Over his limbs in sleep pale cool waves of light had passed. He lay still, as if his soul lay amid cool waters, conscious of faint sweet music. His mind was waking slowly to a tremulous morning knowledge, a morning inspiration. A spirit filled him, pure as the purest water, sweet as dew, moving as music. But how faintly it was inbreathed, how passionlessly, as if the seraphim themselves were breathing upon him! His soul was waking slowly, fearing to awake wholly. It was that windless hour of dawn when madness wakes and strange plants open to the light and the moth flies forth silently.
天快亮的时候他就醒了。多么美妙的音乐啊！他的灵魂都沾满了露水。苍白清凉的光波掠过他熟睡中的四肢。他一动不动地躺着，仿佛他的灵魂躺在清凉的水中，感觉到微弱而甜美的音乐。他的思绪慢慢地从早晨的知识、早晨的灵感中苏醒。一种精神充满了他，纯净如最纯净的水，甘甜如露水，动人如音乐。但它的呼吸是多么微弱，多么冷漠，仿佛六翼天使本身就在向他呼吸！他的灵魂正在慢慢苏醒，生怕彻底醒来。那是一个无风的黎明时刻，疯狂苏醒，奇怪的植物向光开放，飞蛾悄然飞出。

An enchantment of the heart! The night had been enchanted. In a dream or vision he had known the ecstasy of seraphic life. Was it an instant of enchantment only or long hours and years and ages?
一种心灵的魅惑！夜晚是令人着迷的。在梦境或异象中，他体验到了天使生活的狂喜。这只是一瞬间的魅力还是漫长的岁月和岁月？

The instant of inspiration seemed now to be reflected from all sides at once from a multitude of cloudy circumstances of what had happened or of what might have happened. The instant flashed forth like a point of light and now from cloud on cloud of vague circumstance confused form was veiling softly its afterglow. O! In the virgin womb of the imagination the word was made flesh. Gabriel the seraph had come to the virgin’s chamber. An afterglow deepened within his spirit, whence the white flame had passed, deepening to a rose and ardent light. That rose and ardent light was her strange wilful heart, strange that no man had known or would know, wilful from before the beginning of the world; and lured by that ardent rose-like glow the choirs of the seraphim were falling from heaven.
现在，灵感的瞬间似乎从已经发生的或可能发生的事情的众多阴云密布的情况中同时从各个方面反映出来。那一瞬间像一个光点一样闪现，现在从云层到云层的模糊环境中，模糊的形状正在轻轻地掩盖它的余辉。哦！在想象的处女子宫里，这个词就变成了肉身。六翼天使加百列来到了处女的房间。一道余辉在他的精神中加深，白色的火焰从那里消失，加深为玫瑰色和炽热的光芒。那升腾而炽热的光芒就是她那颗奇异的任性的心，奇怪的是没有人知道或不会知道，从世界诞生之前就如此任性；六翼天使的唱诗班被玫瑰般热情的光芒所吸引，从天而降。

Are you not weary of ardent ways,
你不厌倦热情的方式，

Lure of the fallen seraphim?
堕落六翼天使的诱惑？

Tell no more of enchanted days.
不再讲述那些令人着迷的日子。

The verses passed from his mind to his lips and, murmuring them over, he felt the rhythmic movement of a villanelle pass through them. The rose-like glow sent forth its rays of rhyme; ways, days, blaze, praise, raise. Its rays burned up the world, consumed the hearts of men and angels: the rays from the rose that was her wilful heart.
诗句从他的脑海传到嘴唇，低声吟诵，他感觉到维拉内拉有节奏的乐章从诗句中穿过。玫瑰般的光芒散发出韵律的光芒；方式、日子、火焰、赞美、提高。它的光芒烧毁了世界，吞噬了人类和天使的心：玫瑰的光芒就是她任性的心。

Your eyes have set man’s heart ablaze
你的眼神点燃了男人的心

And you have had your will of him.
你已经得到了他的意愿。

Are you not weary of ardent ways?
你不厌倦热切的方式吗？

And then? The rhythm died away, ceased, began again to move and beat. And then? Smoke, incense ascending from the altar of the world.
进而？节奏渐渐消失，停止，又开始移动和跳动。进而？烟雾缭绕，香火从人间祭坛升起。

Above the flame the smoke of praise
火焰之上，赞美之烟

Goes up from ocean rim to rim
从海洋边缘上升到边缘

Tell no more of enchanted days.
不再讲述那些令人着迷的日子。

Smoke went up from the whole earth, from the vapoury oceans, smoke of her praise. The earth was like a swinging swaying censer, a ball of incense, an ellipsoidal fall. The rhythm died out at once; the cry of his heart was broken. His lips began to murmur the first verses over and over; then went on stumbling through half verses, stammering and baffled; then stopped. The heart’s cry was broken.
烟雾从整个大地、从雾气弥漫的海洋中升起，那是她赞美的烟雾。大地就像一个摇摆不定的香炉，一个香球，一个椭圆形的坠落。节奏立刻消失了；他的心碎了。他的嘴唇开始一遍又一遍地低声念出第一段诗句。然后继续结结巴巴地读完半节诗，结结巴巴、困惑不解。然后停了下来。心的哭声破碎了。

The veiled windless hour had passed and behind the panes of the naked window the morning light was gathering. A bell beat faintly very far away. A bird twittered; two birds, three. The bell and the bird ceased; and the dull white light spread itself east and west, covering the world, covering the roselight in his heart.
无风的时光已经过去，晨光已从裸露的窗户后面聚集起来。远处传来一阵微弱的钟声。一只鸟叽叽喳喳地叫着；两只鸟，三只。钟声和鸟儿停止了；暗淡的白光向东向西蔓延，覆盖了整个世界，也覆盖了他心中的玫瑰色光芒。

Fearing to lose all, he raised himself suddenly on his elbow to look for paper and pencil. There was neither on the table; only the soup plate he had eaten the rice from for supper and the candlestick with its tendrils of tallow and its paper socket, singed by the last flame. He stretched his arm wearily towards the foot of the bed, groping with his hand in the pockets of the coat that hung there. His fingers found a pencil and then a cigarette packet. He lay back and, tearing open the packet, placed the last cigarette on the window ledge and began to write out the stanzas of the villanelle in small neat letters on the rough cardboard surface.
由于害怕失去一切，他突然用手肘撑起身子，寻找纸和铅笔。桌子上什么都没有。只有他吃晚饭时用的米饭的汤盘和带有牛脂卷须的烛台和纸座，被最后的火焰烧焦了。他疲倦地将手臂伸向床脚，把手伸进挂在那里的外套口袋里摸索。他的手指找到了一支铅笔，然后是一个烟盒。他躺下来，撕开烟盒，把最后一支香烟放在窗台上，开始在粗糙的纸板表面上用工整的小字写下维拉内尔的诗节。

Having written them out he lay back on the lumpy pillow, murmuring them again. The lumps of knotted flock under his head reminded him of the lumps of knotted horsehair in the sofa of her parlour on which he used to sit, smiling or serious, asking himself why he had come, displeased with her and with himself, confounded by the print of the Sacred Heart above the untenanted sideboard. He saw her approach him in a lull of the talk and beg him to sing one of his curious songs. Then he saw himself sitting at the old piano, striking chords softly from its speckled keys and singing, amid the talk which had risen again in the room, to her who leaned beside the mantelpiece a dainty song of the Elizabethans, a sad and sweet loth to depart, the victory chant of Agincourt, the happy air of Greensleeves. While he sang and she listened, or feigned to listen, his heart was at rest but when the quaint old songs had ended and he heard again the voices in the room he remembered his own sarcasm: the house where young men are called by their christian names a little too soon.
写完后，他躺回凹凸不平的枕头上，再次低声念叨着。他头下那一团团打结的羊绒让他想起了她客厅沙发上一团团打结的马毛，他常常坐在上面，或微笑，或严肃，问自己为什么来，对她和他自己都不满意，对她和他自己感到不满，感到困惑。无人居住的餐具柜上方印有圣心图案。他看到她在谈话的间隙向他走来，请求他唱一首他好奇的歌曲。然后他看见自己坐在那架旧钢琴前，用斑驳的琴键轻轻地弹奏和弦，在房间里再次响起的谈话声中，向靠在壁炉架旁的她唱一首伊丽莎白时代的精致歌曲，一首悲伤而甜蜜的情歌。离开时，阿金库尔的胜利颂歌，绿袖子的快乐空气。当他唱歌，她听着，或者假装听着时，他的心得到了休息，但当古朴的老歌结束时，他再次听到房间里的声音，他想起了自己的讽刺：年轻人被基督徒称为的房子。名字有点太早了。

At certain instants her eyes seemed about to trust him but he had waited in vain. She passed now dancing lightly across his memory as she had been that night at the carnival ball, her white dress a little lifted, a white spray nodding in her hair. She danced lightly in the round. She was dancing towards him and, as she came, her eyes were a little averted and a faint glow was on her cheek. At the pause in the chain of hands her hand had lain in his an instant, a soft merchandise.
在某些时刻，她的眼睛似乎要相信他，但他却徒劳地等待。现在，她在他的记忆中轻轻舞动着，就像那天晚上在嘉年华舞会上一样，她的白色裙子稍微掀起，白色的喷雾在她的头发上点头。她轻轻地绕圈跳舞。她正向他跳舞，当她过来的时候，她的目光稍稍移开了，脸颊上泛着淡淡的光芒。在那一连串的手停顿的时候，她的手瞬间就放在了他的手上，变成了一件柔软的商品。

—You are a great stranger now.
——你现在已经是个陌生人了。

—Yes. I was born to be a monk.
-是的。我生来就是要当和尚。

—I am afraid you are a heretic.
——恐怕你是异教徒。

—Are you much afraid?
——你很害怕吗？

For answer she had danced away from him along the chain of hands, dancing lightly and discreetly, giving herself to none. The white spray nodded to her dancing and when she was in shadow the glow was deeper on her cheek.
作为回答，她沿着手链从他身边跳开，轻快而谨慎地跳舞，不把自己交给任何人。白色的水花向她的舞蹈点头，当她处于阴影中时，她脸颊上的光芒更深。

A monk! His own image started forth a profaner of the cloister, a heretic franciscan, willing and willing not to serve, spinning like Gherardino da Borgo San Donnino, a lithe web of sophistry and whispering in her ear.
一个和尚！他自己的形象一开始就是一个修道院的亵渎者，一个异端方济各教徒，愿意并且不愿意服务，像盖拉迪诺·达·博尔戈·圣多尼诺一样旋转，一张柔软的诡辩网，在她耳边低语。

No, it was not his image. It was like the image of the young priest in whose company he had seen her last, looking at him out of dove’s eyes, toying with the pages of her Irish phrase-book.
不，这不是他的形象。这就像他最后一次见到她时那位年轻牧师的形象，用鸽子般的眼睛看着他，摆弄着她的爱尔兰短语手册。

—Yes, yes, the ladies are coming round to us. I can see it every day. The ladies are with us. The best helpers the language has.
——是的，是的，女士们正在向我们走来。我每天都能看到它。女士们和我们在一起。语言最好的帮手。

—And the church, Father Moran?
——莫兰神父，教堂呢？

—The church too. Coming round too. The work is going ahead there too. Don’t fret about the church.
——教堂也是。也来了。那里的工作也在进行中。不要为教会担心。

Bah! he had done well to leave the room in disdain. He had done well not to salute her on the steps of the library! He had done well to leave her to flirt with her priest, to toy with a church which was the scullery-maid of christendom.
呸!他轻蔑地离开了房间，这很好。他没有在图书馆的台阶上向她行礼就做得很好了！他让她去和她的牧师调情，去玩弄教堂，而教堂是基督教界的女佣，他做得很好。

Rude brutal anger routed the last lingering instant of ecstasy from his soul. It broke up violently her fair image and flung the fragments on all sides. On all sides distorted reflections of her image started from his memory: the flower girl in the ragged dress with damp coarse hair and a hoyden’s face who had called herself his own girl and begged his handsel, the kitchen-girl in the next house who sang over the clatter of her plates, with the drawl of a country singer, the first bars of BY KILLARNEY’S LAKES AND FELLS, a girl who had laughed gaily to see him stumble when the iron grating in the footpath near Cork Hill had caught the broken sole of his shoe, a girl he had glanced at, attracted by her small ripe mouth, as she passed out of Jacob’s biscuit factory, who had cried to him over her shoulder:
粗暴的愤怒夺走了他灵魂中最后一丝狂喜。它猛烈地破坏了她美丽的形象，并将碎片抛向四面八方。从他的记忆中，她的形象在各个方面都出现了扭曲的反映：穿着破烂衣服的花童，头发粗糙，头发湿漉漉的，有着一张自称为自己的女孩并乞求他的手艺的霍顿脸，隔壁房子里的厨房女孩唱歌在盘子的碰撞声中，带着乡村歌手慢吞吞的声音，《BY KILLARNEY'S LAKES AND FELLS》的第一小节，当科克山附近人行道上的铁栅栏卡住了破碎的鞋底时，一个女孩看到他绊倒，高兴地笑了当她走出雅各布的饼干工厂时，他瞥见了一个女孩，被她成熟的小嘴所吸引，她在她的肩膀上向他哭喊：

—Do you like what you seen of me, straight hair and curly eyebrows?
——你喜欢我的直发卷眉吗？

And yet he felt that, however he might revile and mock her image, his anger was also a form of homage. He had left the classroom in disdain that was not wholly sincere, feeling that perhaps the secret of her race lay behind those dark eyes upon which her long lashes flung a quick shadow. He had told himself bitterly as he walked through the streets that she was a figure of the womanhood of her country, a bat-like soul waking to the consciousness of itself in darkness and secrecy and loneliness, tarrying awhile, loveless and sinless, with her mild lover and leaving him to whisper of innocent transgressions in the latticed ear of a priest. His anger against her found vent in coarse railing at her paramour, whose name and voice and features offended his baffled pride: a priested peasant, with a brother a policeman in Dublin and a brother a potboy in Moycullen. To him she would unveil her soul’s shy nakedness, to one who was but schooled in the discharging of a formal rite rather than to him, a priest of the eternal imagination, transmuting the daily bread of experience into the radiant body of everliving life.
然而他觉得，无论他如何谩骂和嘲笑她的形象，他的愤怒也是一种敬意。他离开教室时带着一种并不完全真诚的轻蔑态度，他觉得也许她种族的秘密就藏在她那双黑眼睛后面，她长长的睫毛在她的眼睛上投下快速的阴影。当他走过街道时，他痛苦地告诉自己，她是这个国家女性的象征，一个像蝙蝠一样的灵魂，在黑暗、秘密和孤独中苏醒了自己的意识，在她身边停留了一会儿，无爱无罪，与她在一起。温和的情人，让他在牧师的格子耳边低语无辜的罪行。他对她的愤怒发泄在对她情人的粗暴责骂中，她的名字、声音和特征冒犯了他困惑的自尊心：一个牧师农民，一个兄弟在都柏林当警察，一个兄弟在莫伊卡伦当杂工。对他来说，她会揭露她灵魂羞涩的赤裸，对一个只受过正式仪式训练的人来说，而不是对他来说，他是永恒想象的牧师，将每日的经验面包转化为永生生命的光辉身体。

The radiant image of the eucharist united again in an instant his bitter and despairing thoughts, their cries arising unbroken in a hymn of thanksgiving.
圣体圣事的光辉形象瞬间再次将他痛苦而绝望的思绪凝聚在一起，他们的呼喊声在一首感恩的赞美诗中不间断地响起。

Our broken cries and mournful lays
我们破碎的哭声和悲伤的歌声

Rise in one eucharistic hymn
在一首圣体圣歌中起立

Are you not weary of ardent ways?
你不厌倦热切的方式吗？

While sacrificing hands upraise
牺牲举手的同时

The chalice flowing to the brim.
圣杯流到边缘。

Tell no more of enchanted days.
不再讲述那些令人着迷的日子。

He spoke the verses aloud from the first lines till the music and rhythm suffused his mind, turning it to quiet indulgence; then copied them painfully to feel them the better by seeing them; then lay back on his bolster.
他从第一行开始大声朗诵诗句，直到音乐和节奏充满他的头脑，将其变成安静的放纵；然后痛苦地复制它们，以便通过看到它们来更好地感受它们；然后躺在他的抱枕上。

The full morning light had come. No sound was to be heard; but he knew that all around him life was about to awaken in common noises, hoarse voices, sleepy prayers. Shrinking from that life he turned towards the wall, making a cowl of the blanket and staring at the great overblown scarlet flowers of the tattered wallpaper. He tried to warm his perishing joy in their scarlet glow, imagining a roseway from where he lay upwards to heaven all strewn with scarlet flowers. Weary! Weary! He too was weary of ardent ways.
充足的晨光已经来临。听不到任何声音。但他知道，他周围的生命即将在普通的噪音、嘶哑的声音和昏昏欲睡的祈祷中苏醒。他对这种生活感到畏缩，转身面向墙壁，用毯子遮住，凝视着破烂壁纸上夸张的猩红色花朵。他试图在猩红的光芒中温暖他即将逝去的喜悦，想象着一条玫瑰花道，从他躺着的地方向上延伸到撒满猩红花朵的天堂。厌倦！厌倦！他也厌倦了热情的方式。

A gradual warmth, a languorous weariness passed over him descending along his spine from his closely cowled head. He felt it descend and, seeing himself as he lay, smiled. Soon he would sleep.
一种逐渐的温暖，一种慵懒的疲倦掠过他的全身，从他紧闭的头顶沿着脊椎下降。他感觉到它下降了，看到自己躺着，笑了。很快他就睡着了。

He had written verses for her again after ten years. Ten years before she had worn her shawl cowlwise about her head, sending sprays of her warm breath into the night air, tapping her foot upon the glassy road. It was the last tram; the lank brown horses knew it and shook their bells to the clear night in admonition. The conductor talked with the driver, both nodding often in the green light of the lamp. They stood on the steps of the tram, he on the upper, she on the lower. She came up to his step many times between their phrases and went down again and once or twice remained beside him forgetting to go down and then went down. Let be! Let be!
时隔十年，他再次为她写诗。十年前，她把围巾围在头上，将温暖的呼吸喷向夜空，用脚轻敲着玻璃路面。这是最后一班电车；瘦长的棕色马知道了这一点，并在晴朗的夜色中摇动铃铛以示警告。售票员与司机交谈，两人在绿灯下时常点头。他们站在电车的台阶上，他在上，她在下。在他们说话的间隙，她多次走到他的台阶上，然后又走下去，有一两次她留在他身边，忘记走下去，然后又走下去。就这样吧！就这样吧！

Ten years from that wisdom of children to his folly. If he sent her the verses? They would be read out at breakfast amid the tapping of egg-shells. Folly indeed! Her brothers would laugh and try to wrest the page from each other with their strong hard fingers. The suave priest, her uncle, seated in his arm-chair, would hold the page at arm’s length, read it smiling and approve of the literary form.
从孩子们的智慧到他的愚蠢已经过去了十年。如果他把诗句寄给她呢？早餐时，人们会在敲击蛋壳的声音中朗读这些内容。确实愚蠢！她的兄弟们会笑着并试图用他们有力而坚硬的手指从对方手中夺走书页。那位温文尔雅的牧师，也就是她的叔叔，坐在扶手椅上，将书页与书页保持一定距离，微笑着阅读，并对这种文学形式表示认可。

No, no; that was folly. Even if he sent her the verses she would not show them to others. No, no; she could not.
不，不;那是愚蠢的。即使他把诗句发给她，她也不会拿给别人看。不，不;她不能。

He began to feel that he had wronged her. A sense of her innocence moved him almost to pity her, an innocence he had never understood till he had come to the knowledge of it through sin, an innocence which she too had not understood while she was innocent or before the strange humiliation of her nature had first come upon her. Then first her soul had begun to live as his soul had when he had first sinned, and a tender compassion filled his heart as he remembered her frail pallor and her eyes, humbled and saddened by the dark shame of womanhood.
他开始觉得自己冤枉了她。一种她的纯真感让他几乎要怜悯她，这种纯真他从来没有理解过，直到他通过罪孽才认识到这一点，而她在天真无邪时或在她的本性受到奇怪的羞辱之前也无法理解这种纯真。第一次来到她身边。然后，她的灵魂开始像他第一次犯罪时那样生活，当他想起她脆弱的苍白和她的眼睛时，一种温柔的同情充满了他的心，她的眼睛因女性的黑暗羞耻而感到谦卑和悲伤。

While his soul had passed from ecstasy to languor where had she been? Might it be, in the mysterious ways of spiritual life, that her soul at those same moments had been conscious of his homage? It might be.
当他的灵魂从狂喜转为倦怠时，她去哪儿了？也许，在精神生活的神秘方式中，她的灵魂在同一时刻意识到了他的敬意？有可能。

A glow of desire kindled again his soul and fired and fulfilled all his body. Conscious of his desire she was waking from odorous sleep, the temptress of his villanelle. Her eyes, dark and with a look of languor, were opening to his eyes. Her nakedness yielded to him, radiant, warm, odorous and lavish-limbed, enfolded him like a shining cloud, enfolded him like water with a liquid life; and like a cloud of vapour or like waters circumfluent in space the liquid letters of speech, symbols of the element of mystery, flowed forth over his brain.
一股欲望的光芒再次点燃了他的灵魂，点燃并充满了他的全身。她意识到了他的欲望，她从恶臭的睡梦中醒来，她是他维拉内尔的诱惑者。她的眼睛漆黑，带着倦怠的神情，正对着他的眼睛。她的赤裸屈服于他，容光焕发，温暖，芬芳，四肢丰富，像一片闪亮的云一样包裹着他，像充满液体生命的水一样包裹着他；像一团蒸汽或像空间中环绕的水一样，液态的语言字母，神秘元素的象征，在他的大脑中流淌。

Are you not weary of ardent ways,
你不厌倦热情的方式，

Lure of the fallen seraphim?
堕落六翼天使的诱惑？

Tell no more of enchanted days.
不再讲述那些令人着迷的日子。


Your eyes have set man’s heart ablaze
你的眼神点燃了男人的心

And you have had your will of him.
你已经得到了他的意愿。

Are you not weary of ardent ways?
你不厌倦热切的方式吗？


Above the flame the smoke of praise
火焰之上，赞美之烟

Goes up from ocean rim to rim.
从海洋边缘上升到边缘。

Tell no more of enchanted days.
不再讲述那些令人着迷的日子。


Our broken cries and mournful lays
我们破碎的哭声和悲伤的歌声

Rise in one eucharistic hymn.
在一首圣体赞美诗中起立。

Are you not weary of ardent ways?
你不厌倦热切的方式吗？


While sacrificing hands upraise
牺牲举手的同时

The chalice flowing to the brim.
圣杯流到边缘。

Tell no more of enchanted days.
不再讲述那些令人着迷的日子。


And still you hold our longing gaze
而你依然注视着我们渴望的目光

With languorous look and lavish limb!
眼神慵懒，肢体丰沛！

Are you not weary of ardent ways?
你不厌倦热切的方式吗？

Tell no more of enchanted days.
不再讲述那些令人着迷的日子。

*****

What birds were they? He stood on the steps of the library to look at them, leaning wearily on his ashplant. They flew round and round the jutting shoulder of a house in Molesworth Street. The air of the late March evening made clear their flight, their dark quivering bodies flying clearly against the sky as against a limp-hung cloth of smoky tenuous blue.
它们是什么鸟？他站在图书馆的台阶上看着他们，疲惫地靠在他的梣木上。它们绕着莫尔斯沃斯街一栋房子突出的肩膀飞来飞去。三月下旬傍晚的空气清楚地表明了他们的飞行，他们黑暗的颤抖的身体清楚地飞翔在天空中，就像在一块软塌塌的烟熏蓝色布料上飞翔一样。

He watched their flight; bird after bird: a dark flash, a swerve, a flutter of wings. He tried to count them before all their darting quivering bodies passed: six, ten, eleven: and wondered were they odd or even in number. Twelve, thirteen: for two came wheeling down from the upper sky. They were flying high and low but ever round and round in straight and curving lines and ever flying from left to right, circling about a temple of air.
他注视着他们的飞行；一只又一只鸟：黑暗的闪光、突然的转向、翅膀的扑动。在他们颤抖的身体飞过去之前，他试图数数：六、十、十一：并且想知道他们的数量是单数还是双数。十二，十三：因为有两个从高空盘旋而下。它们飞得高高低低，但总是以直线或曲线的方式一圈又一圈地飞，总是从左飞到右，绕着一座空中神庙盘旋。

He listened to the cries: like the squeak of mice behind the wainscot: a shrill twofold note. But the notes were long and shrill and whirring, unlike the cry of vermin, falling a third or a fourth and trilled as the flying beaks clove the air. Their cry was shrill and clear and fine and falling like threads of silken light unwound from whirring spools.
他听到了叫声：就像壁板后面老鼠的吱吱声：尖锐的双重音符。但这些音符又长又刺耳，呼呼作响，与害虫的叫声不同，当飞翔的喙划破空气时，它们的叫声会下降三分之一或四分之一，并发出颤音。他们的叫声尖锐、清晰、细腻，就像从呼呼作响的线轴上解开的丝光丝一样落下。

The inhuman clamour soothed his ears in which his mother’s sobs and reproaches murmured insistently and the dark frail quivering bodies wheeling and fluttering and swerving round an airy temple of the tenuous sky soothed his eyes which still saw the image of his mother’s face.
非人的喧闹声抚慰了他的耳朵，他母亲的抽泣和责备不断地在耳中低语，而那些黑暗、脆弱、颤抖的身体在脆弱的天空中的一座通风的寺庙周围旋转、飘动和转向，抚慰了他的眼睛，他的眼睛仍然看到了他母亲的脸的图像。

Why was he gazing upwards from the steps of the porch, hearing their shrill twofold cry, watching their flight? For an augury of good or evil? A phrase of Cornelius Agrippa flew through his mind and then there flew hither and thither shapeless thoughts from Swedenborg on the correspondence of birds to things of the intellect and of how the creatures of the air have their knowledge and know their times and seasons because they, unlike man, are in the order of their life and have not perverted that order by reason.
为什么他要从门廊的台阶上向上凝视，听到他们尖厉的双重叫声，看着他们逃跑？是为了预兆善还是恶？科尼利厄斯·阿格里帕的一句话闪过他的脑海，然后斯威登堡的无形思想飞来飞去，关于鸟类与智力事物的对应关系，以及空中生物如何拥有知识并知道它们的时间和季节，因为它们，与人类不同的是，他们遵循自己的生活秩序，并且没有因理性而扭曲这种秩序。

And for ages men had gazed upward as he was gazing at birds in flight. The colonnade above him made him think vaguely of an ancient temple and the ashplant on which he leaned wearily of the curved stick of an augur. A sense of fear of the unknown moved in the heart of his weariness, a fear of symbols and portents, of the hawk-like man whose name he bore soaring out of his captivity on osier-woven wings, of Thoth, the god of writers, writing with a reed upon a tablet and bearing on his narrow ibis head the cusped moon.
多年来，人们一直向上凝视，就像他凝视飞行中的鸟儿一样。头顶上的柱廊让他隐约想起一座古老的寺庙和他疲倦地靠在上面的梣木，就像占卜者的弯曲木棍一样。一种对未知的恐惧感在他疲惫的心中涌动，一种对象征和预兆的恐惧，对那个鹰一样的人的恐惧，他的名字是用柳条编织的翅膀从囚禁中飞出来的，对作家之神托特的恐惧，用芦苇在一块板上写字，并在他狭窄的朱鹮头上画着尖角的月亮。

He smiled as he thought of the god’s image for it made him think of a bottle-nosed judge in a wig, putting commas into a document which he held at arm’s length, and he knew that he would not have remembered the god’s name but that it was like an Irish oath. It was folly. But was it for this folly that he was about to leave for ever the house of prayer and prudence into which he had been born and the order of life out of which he had come?
当他想到神的形象时，他笑了，因为这让他想起了一个戴着假发的瓶鼻子法官，在他一臂之遥的文件中输入逗号，他知道他不会记住神的名字，但这就像爱尔兰的誓言。这是愚蠢的。但正是因为这种愚蠢，他才打算永远离开他出生的祈祷和谨慎的殿堂以及他出身的生活秩序吗？

They came back with shrill cries over the jutting shoulder of the house, flying darkly against the fading air. What birds were they? He thought that they must be swallows who had come back from the south. Then he was to go away for they were birds ever going and coming, building ever an unlasting home under the eaves of men’s houses and ever leaving the homes they had built to wander.
它们带着尖锐的叫声飞回来，越过突出的屋肩，在渐渐暗淡的空气中飞翔。它们是什么鸟？他想，这一定是从南方回来的燕子。然后他就要离开，因为它们是鸟儿，永远飞来飞去，在人类的屋檐下建造永远不朽的家园，却永远离开自己建造的家园去徘徊。

Bend down your faces, Oona and Aleel.
乌娜和阿利尔，低下你们的脸。

I gaze upon them as the swallow gazes
我凝视着他们，就像燕子凝视着

Upon the nest under the eave before
之前在屋檐下的巢上

He wander the loud waters.
他在喧闹的水域中漫步。

A soft liquid joy like the noise of many waters flowed over his memory and he felt in his heart the soft peace of silent spaces of fading tenuous sky above the waters, of oceanic silence, of swallows flying through the sea-dusk over the flowing waters.
一种柔和的、液体般的喜悦，就像许多水域的噪音一样流过他的记忆，他在心里感受到了一种柔和的平静：水面上渐渐淡去的脆弱的天空，海洋的寂静，燕子飞过海面的黄昏，飞过流动的水面。 。

A soft liquid joy flowed through the words where the soft long vowels hurtled noiselessly and fell away, lapping and flowing back and ever shaking the white bells of their waves in mute chime and mute peal, and soft low swooning cry; and he felt that the augury he had sought in the wheeling darting birds and in the pale space of sky above him had come forth from his heart like a bird from a turret, quietly and swiftly.
一种柔和的、液体般的喜悦流淌在单词中，柔和的长元音无声地冲刺而去，拍打着又流回来，永远在无声的钟声和无声的钟声中摇晃着波浪的白色钟声，还有轻柔的低沉的昏厥哭泣；他感到，他在盘旋的飞翔的鸟儿和头顶苍白的天空中寻找的预兆，已经从他的心中出现，就像一只鸟儿从塔楼里出来一样，安静而迅速。

Symbol of departure or of loneliness? The verses crooned in the ear of his memory composed slowly before his remembering eyes the scene of the hall on the night of the opening of the national theatre. He was alone at the side of the balcony, looking out of jaded eyes at the culture of Dublin in the stalls and at the tawdry scene-cloths and human dolls framed by the garish lamps of the stage. A burly policeman sweated behind him and seemed at every moment about to act. The catcalls and hisses and mocking cries ran in rude gusts round the hall from his scattered fellow students.
离开的象征还是孤独的象征？记忆的耳边低吟的诗句，在记忆的眼前缓缓谱写出国家大剧院开幕当晚大厅的情景。他独自一人站在阳台边，用疲惫的眼睛看着摊位上的都柏林文化，看着舞台上花哨的灯光映衬下的俗气布景和人偶。身后一名身材魁梧的警察满头大汗，似乎随时准备采取行动。零散的同学们发出粗鲁的嘘声、嘶嘶声和嘲笑声，在大厅里传出。

—A libel on Ireland!
——对爱尔兰的诽谤！

—Made in Germany.
-德国制造。

—Blasphemy!
——亵渎！

—We never sold our faith!
——我们从未出卖过我们的信仰！

—No Irish woman ever did it!
——没有爱尔兰女人做到过！

—We want no amateur atheists.
——我们不想要业余无神论者。

—We want no budding buddhists.
——我们不想要初露头角的佛教徒。

A sudden swift hiss fell from the windows above him and he knew that the electric lamps had been switched on in the reader’s room. He turned into the pillared hall, now calmly lit, went up the staircase and passed in through the clicking turnstile.
突然，头顶的窗户传来一阵急促的嘶嘶声，他知道阅览室的电灯已经打开了。他走进灯火通明的柱廊大厅，走上楼梯，穿过旋转门。

Cranly was sitting over near the dictionaries. A thick book, opened at the frontispiece, lay before him on the wooden rest. He leaned back in his chair, inclining his ear like that of a confessor to the face of the medical student who was reading to him a problem from the chess page of a journal. Stephen sat down at his right and the priest at the other side of the table closed his copy of THE TABLET with an angry snap and stood up.
克兰利坐在字典旁边。一本厚厚的书，卷首打开，放在他面前的木架上。他向后靠在椅子上，像忏悔神父那样把耳朵贴在医学生的脸上，后者正在给他读一本期刊的国际象棋问题。史蒂芬在他右边坐下，桌子另一边的神父愤怒地合上手中的书简，然后站了起来。

Cranly gazed after him blandly and vaguely. The medical student went on in a softer voice:
克兰利温和而含糊地看着他的背影。医学生用更柔和的声音继续说道：

—Pawn to king’s fourth.
——典当到国王的第四个。

—We had better go, Dixon, said Stephen in warning. He has gone to complain.
——我们最好走，狄克逊，史蒂芬警告说。他已经去投诉了。

Dixon folded the journal and rose with dignity, saying:
狄克逊合上日记本，庄重地站起身来，说道：

—Our men retired in good order.
——我们的战士们有序地退休了。

—With guns and cattle, added Stephen, pointing to the titlepage of Cranly’s book on which was printed DISEASES OF THE OX.
——带着枪和牛，斯蒂芬补充道，他指着克兰利的书的扉页，上面印着《牛的疾病》。

As they passed through a lane of the tables Stephen said:
当他们穿过桌子的一条通道时，斯蒂芬说：

—Cranly, I want to speak to you.
——克兰利，我想和你谈谈。

Cranly did not answer or turn. He laid his book on the counter and passed out, his well-shod feet sounding flatly on the floor. On the staircase he paused and gazing absently at Dixon repeated:
克兰利没有回答，也没有转身。他把书放在柜台上，然后就昏了过去，穿着整齐的双脚平放在地板上发出声音。在楼梯上，他停了下来，心不在焉地看着迪克森，重复道：

—Pawn to king’s bloody fourth.
——典当到国王的该死的第四个。

—Put it that way if you like, Dixon said.
——如果你愿意的话就这么说吧，迪克森说。

He had a quiet toneless voice and urbane manners and on a finger of his plump clean hand he displayed at moments a signet ring.
他的声音安静平淡，举止彬彬有礼，肥胖而干净的手上时不时地戴着一枚图章戒指。

As they crossed the hall a man of dwarfish stature came towards them. Under the dome of his tiny hat his unshaven face began to smile with pleasure and he was heard to murmur. The eyes were melancholy as those of a monkey.
当他们穿过大厅时，一个身材矮小的男人向他们走来。在他的小帽子的圆顶下，他那张未刮胡子的脸开始高兴地微笑着，人们听见他在嘀咕。那双眼睛像猴子一样忧郁。

—Good evening, gentlemen, said the stubble-grown monkeyish face.
——晚上好，先生们，那张长着胡茬的猴脸说道。

—Warm weather for March, said Cranly. They have the windows open upstairs.
——三月天气温暖，克兰利说。他们楼上的窗户是开着的。

Dixon smiled and turned his ring. The blackish, monkey-puckered face pursed its human mouth with gentle pleasure and its voice purred:
迪克森微笑着转动戒指。那张黑乎乎的猴子皱起的脸轻轻地抿着人类的嘴，发出咕噜咕噜的声音：

—Delightful weather for March. Simply delightful.
——三月的宜人天气。简直令人愉快。

—There are two nice young ladies upstairs, captain, tired of waiting, Dixon said.
——楼上有两位漂亮的年轻女士，船长，她已经厌倦了等待，迪克森说。

Cranly smiled and said kindly:
克兰利微笑着和善地说：

—The captain has only one love: sir Walter Scott. Isn’t that so, captain?
——船长只有一个爱人：沃尔特·斯科特爵士。不是这样吗，队长？

—What are you reading now, captain? Dixon asked. THE BRIDE OF LAMMERMOOR?
——船长，你现在在读什么？迪克森问道。拉默莫尔的新娘？

—I love old Scott, the flexible lips said, I think he writes something lovely. There is no writer can touch sir Walter Scott.
——我爱老斯科特，灵活的嘴唇说，我认为他写了一些可爱的东西。没有哪位作家能够超越沃尔特·斯科特爵士。

He moved a thin shrunken brown hand gently in the air in time to his praise and his thin quick eyelids beat often over his sad eyes.
他及时地在空中轻轻地移动了一只瘦弱的、萎缩的棕色手，以配合他的赞美，他薄薄的眼皮经常在他悲伤的眼睛上跳动。

Sadder to Stephen’s ear was his speech: a genteel accent, low and moist, marred by errors, and, listening to it, he wondered was the story true and was the thin blood that flowed in his shrunken frame noble and come of an incestuous love?
斯蒂芬听来更悲伤的是他的讲话：一种文雅的口音，低沉而潮湿，充满了错误，听着它，他想知道这个故事是否真实，他萎缩的身躯中流淌的稀薄血液是否高贵，来自乱伦的爱情？

The park trees were heavy with rain; and rain fell still and ever in the lake, lying grey like a shield. A game of swans flew there and the water and the shore beneath were fouled with their green-white slime. They embraced softly, impelled by the grey rainy light, the wet silent trees, the shield-like witnessing lake, the swans. They embraced without joy or passion, his arm about his sister’s neck. A grey woollen cloak was wrapped athwart her from her shoulder to her waist and her fair head was bent in willing shame. He had loose red-brown hair and tender shapely strong freckled hands. Face? There was no face seen. The brother’s face was bent upon her fair rain-fragrant hair. The hand freckled and strong and shapely and caressing was Davin’s hand.
公园里的树被雨淋湿了。雨一直下在湖里，灰色的像一面盾牌。一群天鹅飞到那里，水和下面的海岸被它们绿白色的粘液弄脏了。他们被灰色的雨光、潮湿寂静的树木、盾牌般的见证湖、天鹅所推动，轻轻地拥抱在一起。他们毫无喜悦或热情地拥抱着，他的手臂搂着妹妹的脖子。一件灰色的羊毛斗篷从肩膀一直裹到腰间，她的金发低着头，心甘情愿地羞愧不已。他有一头松散的红棕色头发和一双温柔、匀称、强壮、长满雀斑的手。脸？没有看到任何面孔。哥哥的脸伏在她那散发着雨香的金发上。那只长满雀斑、有力、匀称、爱抚的手就是达文的手。

He frowned angrily upon his thought and on the shrivelled mannikin who had called it forth. His father’s jibes at the Bantry gang leaped out of his memory. He held them at a distance and brooded uneasily on his own thought again. Why were they not Cranly’s hands? Had Davin’s simplicity and innocence stung him more secretly?
他对自己的想法和唤出这个想法的枯萎人体模型愤怒地皱起眉头。他父亲对班特里帮的嘲笑从他的记忆中跳了出来。他把他们远远地抱住，不安地再次思考自己的想法。为什么它们不是克兰利的手？达文的单纯和天真是否更暗地刺痛了他？

He walked on across the hall with Dixon, leaving Cranly to take leave elaborately of the dwarf.
他和迪克森一起穿过大厅，留下克兰利精心地向矮人告别。

Under the colonnade Temple was standing in the midst of a little group of students. One of them cried:
柱廊下，圣殿矗立在一小群学生中间。其中一人喊道：

—Dixon, come over till you hear. Temple is in grand form.
——迪克森，过来直到你听到为止。寺庙规模宏大。

Temple turned on him his dark gipsy eyes.
坦普尔用吉卜赛人的黑色眼睛看着他。

—You’re a hypocrite, O’Keeffe, he said. And Dixon is a smiler. By hell, I think that’s a good literary expression.
——你是个伪君子，欧姬芙，他说。迪克森是一个爱笑的人。天哪，我认为这是一个很好的文学表达方式。

He laughed slyly, looking in Stephen’s face, repeating:
他狡猾地笑了，看着斯蒂芬的脸，重复道：

—By hell, I’m delighted with that name. A smiler.
——天哪，我对这个名字很满意。一个微笑者。

A stout student who stood below them on the steps said:
站在他们下面台阶上的一个粗壮的学生说道：

—Come back to the mistress, Temple. We want to hear about that.
——回到女主人身边，坦普尔。我们想听听这个。

—He had, faith, Temple said. And he was a married man too. And all the priests used to be dining there. By hell, I think they all had a touch.
——坦普尔说，他有信心。而且他也是一个已婚男人。所有的牧师都在那里用餐。天哪，我想他们都有接触。

—We shall call it riding a hack to spare the hunter, said Dixon.
——我们将其称为“骑着黑客来饶恕猎人”，迪克森说。

—Tell us, Temple, O’Keeffe said, how many quarts of porter have you in you?
——告诉我们，坦普尔，奥基夫说，你身上有多少夸脱黑啤酒？

—All your intellectual soul is in that phrase, O’Keeffe, said Temple with open scorn.
——你所有的智慧灵魂都在这句话里，奥基夫，坦普尔带着公开的轻蔑说道。

He moved with a shambling gait round the group and spoke to Stephen.
他摇摇晃晃地绕过人群，对斯蒂芬说话。

—Did you know that the Forsters are the kings of Belgium? he asked.
—你知道福斯特家族是比利时的国王吗？他问。

Cranly came out through the door of the entrance hall, his hat thrust back on the nape of his neck and picking his teeth with care.
克兰利从门厅的门走了出来，他的帽子向后推到颈背上，小心翼翼地剔牙。

—And here’s the wiseacre, said Temple. Do you know that about the Forsters?
——这就是个自作聪明的人，坦普尔说。你知道福斯特一家的事吗？

He paused for an answer. Cranly dislodged a figseed from his teeth on the point of his rude toothpick and gazed at it intently.
他停下来等待回答。克兰利用简陋的牙签尖从牙齿上取下一颗无花果籽，然后专心地看着它。

—The Forster family, Temple said, is descended from Baldwin the First, king of Flanders. He was called the Forester. Forester and Forster are the same name. A descendant of Baldwin the First, captain Francis Forster, settled in Ireland and married the daughter of the last chieftain of Clanbrassil. Then there are the Blake Forsters. That’s a different branch.
——坦普尔说，福斯特家族是佛兰德斯国王鲍德温一世的后裔。他被称为护林员。福斯特和福斯特是同一个名字。鲍德温一世的后裔弗朗西斯·福斯特船长定居爱尔兰，并与巴西氏族最后一位酋长的女儿结婚。然后是布莱克·福斯特夫妇。那是一个不同的分支。

—From Baldhead, king of Flanders, Cranly repeated, rooting again deliberately at his gleaming uncovered teeth.
——佛兰德斯国王秃头，克兰利重复道，同时又刻意地用牙根咬住他那闪闪发光的裸露牙齿。

—Where did you pick up all that history? O’Keeffe asked.
——你从哪里得知这些历史的？欧姬芙问道。

—I know all the history of your family, too, Temple said, turning to Stephen. Do you know what Giraldus Cambrensis says about your family?
——我也知道你家族的所有历史，坦普尔转向斯蒂芬说道。你知道吉拉杜斯·坎布伦西斯 (Giraldus Cambrensis) 对你的家人有何评价吗？

—Is he descended from Baldwin too? asked a tall consumptive student with dark eyes.
——他也是鲍德温的后裔吗？一个身材高大、眼睛黝黑的肺痨学生问道。

—Baldhead, Cranly repeated, sucking at a crevice in his teeth.
——秃头，克兰利重复道，吮吸着牙齿的缝隙。

—PERNOBILIS ET PERVETUSTA FAMILIA, Temple said to Stephen.
——PERNOBILIS ET PERVETUSTA FAMILIA，坦普尔对斯蒂芬说。

The stout student who stood below them on the steps farted briefly. Dixon turned towards him, saying in a soft voice:
站在他们下面台阶上的粗壮学生放了一个屁。迪克森转向他，轻声说道：

—Did an angel speak?
——天使说话了吗？

Cranly turned also and said vehemently but without anger:
克兰利也转过身来，激烈但没有愤怒地说：

—Goggins, you’re the flamingest dirty devil I ever met, do you know.
——戈金斯，你是我见过的最火热的肮脏魔鬼，你知道吗？

—I had it on my mind to say that, Goggins answered firmly. It did no one any harm, did it?
——我就是这么想的，戈金斯坚定地回答道。它没有对任何人造成任何伤害，不是吗？

—We hope, Dixon said suavely, that it was not of the kind known to science as a PAULO POST FUTURUM.
——迪克森温和地说，我们希望它不是科学界所熟知的保罗·未来未来。

—Didn’t I tell you he was a smiler? said Temple, turning right and left. Didn’t I give him that name?
——我不是告诉过你他是个爱笑的人吗？坦普尔说着，左右转了转。我不是给他起了这个名字吗？

—You did. We’re not deaf, said the tall consumptive.
——你做到了。我们没聋，高个子肺痨病人说。

Cranly still frowned at the stout student below him. Then, with a snort of disgust, he shoved him violently down the steps.
克兰利仍然皱着眉头看着他下面那个身材魁梧的学生。然后，他厌恶地哼了一声，粗暴地把他推下了台阶。

—Go away from here, he said rudely. Go away, you stinkpot. And you are a stinkpot.
——离开这里，他粗鲁地说。走开，你这个臭家伙。而你就是一个臭锅。

Goggins skipped down on to the gravel and at once returned to his place with good humour. Temple turned back to Stephen and asked:
戈金斯跳到砾石上，立即幽默地回到了自己的位置。坦普尔转身对斯蒂芬问道：

—Do you believe in the law of heredity?
——你相信遗传定律吗？

—Are you drunk or what are you or what are you trying to say? asked Cranly, facing round on him with an expression of wonder.
——你喝醉了吗？或者你在做什么，或者你想说什么？克兰利转头看着他，脸上带着惊奇的表情问道。

—The most profound sentence ever written, Temple said with enthusiasm, is the sentence at the end of the zoology. Reproduction is the beginning of death.
——有史以来最深刻的一句话，坦普尔热情地说，是《动物学》结尾处的一句话。繁衍是死亡的开始。

He touched Stephen timidly at the elbow and said eagerly:
他胆怯地碰了碰斯蒂芬的肘部，急切地说：

—Do you feel how profound that is because you are a poet?
——因为你是诗人，所以你觉得这有多深刻吗？

Cranly pointed his long forefinger.
克兰利伸出长长的食指。

—Look at him! he said with scorn to the others. Look at Ireland’s hope!
-看着他！他对其他人轻蔑地说道。看看爱尔兰的希望吧！

They laughed at his words and gesture. Temple turned on him bravely, saying:
他们嘲笑他的话和动作。坦普尔勇敢地转向他，说道：

—Cranly, you’re always sneering at me. I can see that. But I am as good as you any day. Do you know what I think about you now as compared with myself?
——克兰利，你总是嘲笑我。我理解了。但我每天都和你一样好。你知道我现在对你的看法与我自己相比如何吗？

—My dear man, said Cranly urbanely, you are incapable, do you know, absolutely incapable of thinking.
——我亲爱的朋友，克兰利彬彬有礼地说，你没有能力，你知道吗，绝对没有能力思考。

—But do you know, Temple went on, what I think of you and of myself compared together?
——但是你知道吗，坦普尔继续说道，相比之下我对你和我自己的看法如何？

—Out with it, Temple! the stout student cried from the steps. Get it out in bits!
——别说了，坦普尔！那个粗壮的学生在台阶上哭了起来。一点一点地拿出来！

Temple turned right and left, making sudden feeble gestures as he spoke.
坦普尔左右转了转，说话时突然做出了微弱的手势。

—I’m a ballocks, he said, shaking his head in despair. I am and I know I am. And I admit it that I am.
——我是个笨蛋，他绝望地摇着头说道。我是，而且我知道我是。我承认我就是这样。

Dixon patted him lightly on the shoulder and said mildly:
迪克森轻轻拍了拍他的肩膀，温和地说道：

—And it does you every credit, Temple.
——坦普尔，这真是你的功劳。

—But he, Temple said, pointing to Cranly, he is a ballocks, too, like me. Only he doesn’t know it. And that’s the only difference I see.
——但是他，坦普尔指着克兰利说，他也是个笨蛋，就像我一样。只是他自己不知道而已。这是我看到的唯一区别。

A burst of laughter covered his words. But he turned again to Stephen and said with a sudden eagerness:
一阵笑声掩盖了他的话。但他又转向斯蒂芬，突然急切地说：

—That word is a most interesting word. That’s the only English dual number. Did you know?
——这个词是一个最有趣的词。这是唯一的英文双数。你可知道？

—Is it? Stephen said vaguely.
-是吗？斯蒂芬含糊地说。

He was watching Cranly’s firm-featured suffering face, lit up now by a smile of false patience. The gross name had passed over it like foul water poured over an old stone image, patient of injuries; and, as he watched him, he saw him raise his hat in salute and uncover the black hair that stood stiffly from his forehead like an iron crown.
他看着克兰利那张表情坚定、痛苦的脸，现在脸上露出了虚假的耐心微笑。粗俗的名字从它身上掠过，就像污水浇在一座古老的石像上，一个受伤的病人；当他注视着他时，他看到他举起帽子行礼，揭开额头上硬邦邦的黑发，就像一顶铁王冠。

She passed out from the porch of the library and bowed across Stephen in reply to Cranly’s greeting. He also? Was there not a slight flush on Cranly’s cheek? Or had it come forth at Temple’s words? The light had waned. He could not see.
她从图书馆的门廊里走了出来，向斯蒂芬鞠躬，回应克兰利的问候。他还？克兰利的脸颊上不是有轻微的红晕吗？或者是因坦普尔的话而出现的？光线已经暗淡了。他看不见。

Did that explain his friend’s listless silence, his harsh comments, the sudden intrusions of rude speech with which he had shattered so often Stephen’s ardent wayward confessions? Stephen had forgiven freely for he had found this rudeness also in himself. And he remembered an evening when he had dismounted from a borrowed creaking bicycle to pray to God in a wood near Malahide. He had lifted up his arms and spoken in ecstasy to the sombre nave of the trees, knowing that he stood on holy ground and in a holy hour. And when two constabulary men had come into sight round a bend in the gloomy road he had broken off his prayer to whistle loudly an air from the last pantomime.
这是否可以解释他的朋友无精打采的沉默，他的严厉评论，他经常用粗鲁的言语来粉碎斯蒂芬热切任性的忏悔？斯蒂芬自由地原谅了他，因为他发现自己也有这种粗鲁。他还记得有一天晚上，他从借来的一辆吱吱作响的自行车上下来，在马拉海德附近的树林里向上帝祈祷。他举起双臂，欣喜若狂地对着树木阴森的中殿讲话，因为他知道自己正站在神圣的土地上，处于神圣的时刻。当两个警察在阴暗的道路上的一个拐弯处出现时，他中断了祈祷，大声吹起了最后一部哑剧中的曲子。

He began to beat the frayed end of his ashplant against the base of a pillar. Had Cranly not heard him? Yet he could wait. The talk about him ceased for a moment and a soft hiss fell again from a window above. But no other sound was in the air and the swallows whose flight he had followed with idle eyes were sleeping.
他开始用梣木磨损的一端敲打一根柱子的底座。克兰利没有听到他的话吗？但他可以等待。关于他的谈论暂时停止了，上方的窗户再次传来轻柔的嘶嘶声。但空气中没有任何其他声音，他闲着眼睛跟踪飞翔的燕子正在睡觉。

She had passed through the dusk. And therefore the air was silent save for one soft hiss that fell. And therefore the tongues about him had ceased their babble. Darkness was falling.
她已经度过了黄昏。因此，空气中一片寂静，只有一声轻柔的嘶嘶声落下。于是，周围的人就不再喋喋不休了。夜幕降临了。

Darkness falls from the air.
黑暗从空中降临。

A trembling joy, lambent as a faint light, played like a fairy host around him. But why? Her passage through the darkening air or the verse with its black vowels and its opening sound, rich and lutelike?
一种颤抖的喜悦，如微弱的光芒般柔和，像仙女一样围绕着他。但为什么？她穿过黑暗的空气，还是那首带有黑色元音和开场音、丰富而鲁特琴般的诗句？

He walked away slowly towards the deeper shadows at the end of the colonnade, beating the stone softly with his stick to hide his revery from the students whom he had left: and allowed his mind to summon back to itself the age of Dowland and Byrd and Nash.
他慢慢地朝柱廊尽头更深的阴影走去，用棍子轻轻地敲打着石头，以免他留下的学生们看不到他的沉思：让他的思绪重新回到道兰和伯德的时代，纳什。

Eyes, opening from the darkness of desire, eyes that dimmed the breaking east. What was their languid grace but the softness of chambering? And what was their shimmer but the shimmer of the scum that mantled the cesspool of the court of a slobbering Stuart. And he tasted in the language of memory ambered wines, dying fallings of sweet airs, the proud pavan, and saw with the eyes of memory kind gentlewomen in Covent Garden wooing from their balconies with sucking mouths and the pox-fouled wenches of the taverns and young wives that, gaily yielding to their ravishers, clipped and clipped again.
眼睛，从欲望的黑暗中睁开，眼睛使破碎的东方变得暗淡。除了室内的柔和之外，他们慵懒的优雅是什么？它们的闪光不过是覆盖在流着口水的斯图亚特宫廷污水坑里的浮渣的闪光。他用记忆的语言品尝了琥珀色的葡萄酒，甜蜜的空气垂死的飘落，骄傲的帕万舞曲，用记忆的眼睛看到了考文特花园里善良的贵妇们在阳台上用吮吸的嘴求爱，看到了小酒馆里长满痘的姑娘，年轻的妻子们兴高采烈地屈服于她们的强暴者，剪了又剪。

The images he had summoned gave him no pleasure. They were secret and inflaming but her image was not entangled by them. That was not the way to think of her. It was not even the way in which he thought of her. Could his mind then not trust itself? Old phrases, sweet only with a disinterred sweetness like the figseeds Cranly rooted out of his gleaming teeth.
他所召唤的图像并没有给他带来任何乐趣。它们是秘密的、煽动性的，但她的形象并没有被它们纠缠起来。那不是看待她的方式。他甚至不是这样看待她的。那么他的头脑会不相信自己吗？古老的短语，只有一种被挖掘出来的甜蜜，就像克兰利从他闪闪发光的牙齿中拔出的无花果种子一样。

It was not thought nor vision though he knew vaguely that her figure was passing homeward through the city. Vaguely first and then more sharply he smelt her body. A conscious unrest seethed in his blood. Yes, it was her body he smelt, a wild and languid smell, the tepid limbs over which his music had flowed desirously and the secret soft linen upon which her flesh distilled odour and a dew.
尽管他隐约知道她的身影正在穿过城市回家，但那不是思想，也不是幻象。他先是模糊地闻到了她身体的味道，然后更加敏锐了。他的血液中涌动着一种有意识的不安。是的，他闻到的是她的身体，一种狂野而慵懒的气味，他的音乐在温热的四肢上肆意流淌，她的肉体在其上散发着神秘的柔软亚麻布的气味和露水。

A louse crawled over the nape of his neck and, putting his thumb and forefinger deftly beneath his loose collar, he caught it. He rolled its body, tender yet brittle as a grain of rice, between thumb and finger for an instant before he let it fall from him and wondered would it live or die. There came to his mind a curious phrase from CORNELIUS A LAPIDE which said that the lice born of human sweat were not created by God with the other animals on the sixth day. But the tickling of the skin of his neck made his mind raw and red. The life of his body, ill clad, ill fed, louse-eaten, made him close his eyelids in a sudden spasm of despair and in the darkness he saw the brittle bright bodies of lice falling from the air and turning often as they fell. Yes, and it was not darkness that fell from the air. It was brightness.
一只虱子爬到了他的颈背上，他灵巧地把拇指和食指放在宽松的衣领下面，抓住了它。他在拇指和手指之间滚动了它像米粒一样柔软但易碎的身体，然后让它从身上掉下来，想知道它是活还是死。他的脑海中浮现出哥尼流·拉皮德的一句奇怪的话：人类汗水中生出的虱子并不是上帝在第六天与其他动物一起创造的。但脖子上的皮肤发痒，让他的心变得又红又痛。他的身体的生命，穿着破烂，吃得不好，被虱子吃掉，使他在绝望的痉挛中突然闭上了眼睑，在黑暗中，他看到虱子的脆弱而明亮的身体从空中落下，并且在落下时经常转动。是的，从空中坠落的并不是黑暗。那是光明。

Brightness falls from the air.
亮度从空中落下。

He had not even remembered rightly Nash’s line. All the images it had awakened were false. His mind bred vermin. His thoughts were lice born of the sweat of sloth.
他甚至没有正确记得纳什的台词。它所唤醒的所有影像都是虚假的。他的思想滋生了害虫。他的思想是懒惰汗水中生出的虱子。

He came back quickly along the colonnade towards the group of students. Well then, let her go and be damned to her! She could love some clean athlete who washed himself every morning to the waist and had black hair on his chest. Let her.
他沿着柱廊很快回到了那群学生的身边。那么，就让她走吧，让她见鬼去吧！她可能会喜欢某个干净的运动员，他每天早上都会把自己洗到腰部，胸前有一头黑发。让她。

Cranly had taken another dried fig from the supply in his pocket and was eating it slowly and noisily. Temple sat on the pediment of a pillar, leaning back, his cap pulled down on his sleepy eyes. A squat young man came out of the porch, a leather portfolio tucked under his armpit. He marched towards the group, striking the flags with the heels of his boots and with the ferrule of his heavy umbrella. Then, raising the umbrella in salute, he said to all:
克兰利从口袋里拿出另一块无花果干，慢慢地、吵闹地吃着。坦普尔坐在一根柱子的山形墙上，向后靠着，帽子拉下来遮住了他睡眼惺忪的眼睛。一个矮胖的年轻人从门廊里走了出来，腋下夹着一个皮革文件夹。他向这群人走去，用靴子的后跟和沉重的雨伞的套圈敲击着旗帜。然后，他举起伞行礼，对大家说道：

—Good evening, sirs.
——晚上好，先生们。

He struck the flags again and tittered while his head trembled with a slight nervous movement. The tall consumptive student and Dixon and O’Keeffe were speaking in Irish and did not answer him. Then, turning to Cranly, he said:
他再次敲击旗帜，咯咯地笑起来，他的头因轻微的紧张而颤抖。那个高个子的肺痨学生、狄克逊和欧姬芙正在用爱尔兰语说话，没有回答他。然后，他转向克兰利，说道：

—Good evening, particularly to you.
——晚上好，特别是对你来说。

He moved the umbrella in indication and tittered again. Cranly, who was still chewing the fig, answered with loud movements of his jaws.
他示意性地移动了雨伞，然后又咯咯笑起来。克兰利仍在咀嚼无花果，他的下巴发出响亮的动作作为回应。

—Good? Yes. It is a good evening.
-好的？是的。这是一个美好的夜晚。

The squat student looked at him seriously and shook his umbrella gently and reprovingly.
矮胖的学生严肃地看着他，轻轻地、责备地摇了摇伞。

—I can see, he said, that you are about to make obvious remarks.
——我看得出来，他说，你即将发表明显的言论。

—Um, Cranly answered, holding out what remained of the half chewed fig and jerking it towards the squat student’s mouth in sign that he should eat.
——嗯，克兰利回答道，他拿出剩下的嚼了一半的无花果，猛地把它塞到矮胖学生的嘴里，示意他应该吃东西了。

The squat student did not eat it but, indulging his special humour, said gravely, still tittering and prodding his phrase with his umbrella:
矮胖的学生没有吃，而是用他特有的幽默，一边笑着一边用雨伞戳着他的话，严肃地说：

—Do you intend that... ?
——你是这么打算的吗……？

He broke off, pointed bluntly to the munched pulp of the fig, and said loudly:
他停了下来，直率地指着咀嚼过的无花果果肉，大声说道：

—I allude to that.
——我提到过这一点。

—Um, Cranly said as before.
——嗯，克兰利和以前一样说道。

—Do you intend that now, the squat student said, as IPSO FACTO or, let us say, as so to speak?
——你现在打算这么做吗？蹲着的学生说，“IPSO FACTO”或者，让我们这么说吧？

Dixon turned aside from his group, saying:
狄克逊转身离开他的团队，说道：

—Goggins was waiting for you, Glynn. He has gone round to the Adelphi to look for you and Moynihan. What have you there? he asked, tapping the portfolio under Glynn’s arm.
——戈金斯正在等你，格林。他绕到阿德尔菲寻找你和莫伊尼汉。你那里有什么？他一边问道，一边轻拍着格林腋下的文件夹。

—Examination papers, Glynn answered. I give them monthly examinations to see that they are profiting by my tuition.
——试卷，格林回答。我每月给他们进行一次考试，看看他们是否从我的学费中受益。

He also tapped the portfolio and coughed gently and smiled.
他也敲了敲文件夹，轻咳了一声，笑了。

—Tuition! said Cranly rudely. I suppose you mean the barefooted children that are taught by a bloody ape like you. God help them!
-学费！克兰利粗鲁地说。我想你指的是由像你这样的血猿教导的赤脚孩子。愿上帝帮助他们！

He bit off the rest of the fig and flung away the butt.
他咬掉了剩下的无花果，并把果蒂扔掉了。

—I suffer little children to come unto me, Glynn said amiably.
——我允许小孩子来找我，格林和蔼可亲地说。

—A bloody ape, Cranly repeated with emphasis, and a blasphemous bloody ape!
——一只该死的猿猴，克兰利强调地重复道，而且是一只亵渎的血猿！

Temple stood up and, pushing past Cranly, addressed Glynn:
坦普尔站起来，推开克兰利，对格林说道：

—That phrase you said now, he said, is from the new testament about suffer the children to come to me.
——你现在说的这句话，他说，来自《新约》，关于让孩子们到我这里来。

—Go to sleep again, Temple, said O’Keeffe.
——再睡吧，坦普尔，奥基夫说。

—Very well, then, Temple continued, still addressing Glynn, and if Jesus suffered the children to come why does the church send them all to hell if they die unbaptized? Why is that?
——那么，坦普尔继续说道，仍然对格林说，如果耶稣允许孩子们来到教会，如果他们死时没有受洗，为什么教会要把他们都送进地狱呢？这是为什么？

—Were you baptized yourself, Temple? the consumptive student asked.
——坦普尔，你自己受洗了吗？肺痨学生问道。

—But why are they sent to hell if Jesus said they were all to come? Temple said, his eyes searching Glynn’s eyes.
——但是如果耶稣说他们都会来的话，为什么他们会被送到地狱呢？坦普尔说道，他的目光搜索着格林的眼睛。

Glynn coughed and said gently, holding back with difficulty the nervous titter in his voice and moving his umbrella at every word:
格林咳嗽了一声，艰难地忍住声音中紧张的笑声，轻轻说道，每说一个字就移动一把雨伞：

—And, as you remark, if it is thus, I ask emphatically whence comes this thusness.
——而且，正如你所说，如果是这样的话，我着重问这种真实性从何而来。

—Because the church is cruel like all old sinners, Temple said.
——因为教会像所有老罪人一样残酷，坦普尔说。

—Are you quite orthodox on that point, Temple? Dixon said suavely.
——坦普尔，你在这一点上很正统吗？狄克逊温和地说。

—Saint Augustine says that about unbaptized children going to hell, Temple answered, because he was a cruel old sinner too.
——圣奥古斯丁说未受洗的孩子会下地狱，坦普尔回答道，因为他也是一个残酷的老罪人。

—I bow to you, Dixon said, but I had the impression that limbo existed for such cases.
——我向你鞠躬，迪克森说，但我的印象是这种情况存在不确定性。

—Don’t argue with him, Dixon, Cranly said brutally. Don’t talk to him or look at him. Lead him home with a sugan the way you’d lead a bleating goat.
——别和他争论，迪克森，克兰利粗暴地说。不要与他说话或看着他。用糖带领他回家，就像带领一只咩咩叫的山羊一样。

—Limbo! Temple cried. That’s a fine invention too. Like hell.
——地狱边境！坦普尔哭了。这也是一个很好的发明。像地狱一样。

—But with the unpleasantness left out, Dixon said.
——但排除了不愉快的事情，迪克森说。

He turned smiling to the others and said:
他转头微笑着对其他人说道：

—I think I am voicing the opinions of all present in saying so much.
——我想我说了这么多，是表达了在场所有人的意见。

—You are, Glynn said in a firm tone. On that point Ireland is united.
——是的，格林语气坚定地说。在这一点上，爱尔兰是团结的。

He struck the ferrule of his umbrella on the stone floor of the colonnade.
他的雨伞套圈撞到了柱廊的石头地板上。

—Hell, Temple said. I can respect that invention of the grey spouse of Satan. Hell is Roman, like the walls of the Romans, strong and ugly. But what is limbo?
——见鬼，坦普尔说。我可以尊重撒旦灰色配偶的发明。地狱是罗马式的，就像罗马人的城墙一样，坚固而丑陋。但什么是地狱边缘？

—Put him back into the perambulator, Cranly, O’Keeffe called out.
——把他放回婴儿车里，克兰利，奥基夫喊道。

Cranly made a swift step towards Temple, halted, stamping his foot, crying as if to a fowl:
克兰利快步朝坦普尔走去，停下来，跺着脚，像对一只家禽一样叫道：

—Hoosh!
-浓汤！

Temple moved away nimbly.
坦普尔敏捷地走开。

—Do you know what limbo is? he cried. Do you know what we call a notion like that in Roscommon?
——你知道什么是地狱边缘吗？他哭了。你知道在罗斯康芒我们把这样的概念称为什么吗？

—Hoosh! Blast you! Cranly cried, clapping his hands.
-浓汤！炸死你！克兰利拍着手哭了起来。

—Neither my arse nor my elbow! Temple cried out scornfully. And that’s what I call limbo.
——既不是我的屁股，也不是我的肘部！坦普尔轻蔑地叫道。这就是我所说的地狱边缘。

—Give us that stick here, Cranly said.
——把那根棍子给我们，克兰利说。

He snatched the ashplant roughly from Stephen’s hand and sprang down the steps: but Temple, hearing him move in pursuit, fled through the dusk like a wild creature, nimble and fleet-footed. Cranly’s heavy boots were heard loudly charging across the quadrangle and then returning heavily, foiled and spurning the gravel at each step.
他粗暴地从史蒂芬手中抢过白蜡树，跳下台阶；但坦普尔听到他追赶的声音，便像野兽一样敏捷而敏捷地在黄昏中逃跑了。克兰利沉重的靴子大声地冲过四方院，然后沉重地返回，每一步都挫败并踢开碎石。

His step was angry and with an angry abrupt gesture he thrust the stick back into Stephen’s hand. Stephen felt that his anger had another cause but, feigning patience, touched his arm slightly and said quietly:
他的脚步充满了愤怒，并用一个愤怒的、突然的姿势将棍子重新塞回了斯蒂芬的手中。斯蒂芬觉得自己的愤怒另有原因，但他假装耐心地轻轻碰了碰他的手臂，轻声说道：

—Cranly, I told you I wanted to speak to you. Come away.
——克兰利，我告诉过你我想和你谈谈。走开。

Cranly looked at him for a few moments and asked:
克兰利看了他一会儿，问道：

—Now?
-现在？

—Yes, now, Stephen said. We can’t speak here. Come away.
——是的，现在，斯蒂芬说。我们不能在这里说话。走开。

They crossed the quadrangle together without speaking. The bird call from SIEGFRIED whistled softly followed them from the steps of the porch. Cranly turned, and Dixon, who had whistled, called out:
他们一起穿过四合院，没有说话。齐格弗里德的鸟叫声从门廊的台阶上轻柔地跟着他们。克兰利转过身来，狄克逊吹了声口哨，大声喊道：

—Where are you fellows off to? What about that game, Cranly?
——你们要去哪里？那场比赛怎么样，克兰利？

They parleyed in shouts across the still air about a game of billiards to be played in the Adelphi hotel. Stephen walked on alone and out into the quiet of Kildare Street opposite Maple’s hotel he stood to wait, patient again. The name of the hotel, a colourless polished wood, and its colourless front stung him like a glance of polite disdain. He stared angrily back at the softly lit drawing-room of the hotel in which he imagined the sleek lives of the patricians of Ireland housed in calm. They thought of army commissions and land agents: peasants greeted them along the roads in the country; they knew the names of certain French dishes and gave orders to jarvies in high-pitched provincial voices which pierced through their skin-tight accents.
他们隔着寂静的空气大声交谈，商量要在阿德尔菲酒店打台球。史蒂芬独自向前走去，来到梅普尔酒店对面安静的基尔代尔街，他再次耐心地站着等待。酒店的名字，一种无色的抛光木头，以及它无色的门面，像礼貌的蔑视的目光一样刺痛了他。他愤怒地回望着酒店灯光柔和的客厅，想象着爱尔兰贵族们平静地过着光鲜亮丽的生活。他们想到了军队委员会和土地代理人：农民在乡村的道路上迎接他们；他们知道某些法国菜肴的名称，并用高亢的乡土声音向厨师下订单，这些声音穿透了他们紧身的口音。

How could he hit their conscience or how cast his shadow over the imaginations of their daughters, before their squires begat upon them, that they might breed a race less ignoble than their own? And under the deepened dusk he felt the thoughts and desires of the race to which he belonged flitting like bats across the dark country lanes, under trees by the edges of streams and near the pool-mottled bogs. A woman had waited in the doorway as Davin had passed by at night and, offering him a cup of milk, had all but wooed him to her bed; for Davin had the mild eyes of one who could be secret. But him no woman’s eyes had wooed.
在他们的侍从生下她们之前，他如何触动他们的良心，或者如何将他的阴影笼罩在她们女儿们的想象中，让她们繁衍出比他们自己更不光彩的种族？在渐浓的暮色下，他感觉到自己所属种族的思想和欲望像蝙蝠一样飞过黑暗的乡间小道，飞过溪边的树下，飞过水池斑驳的沼泽附近。当达文晚上经过时，一个女人在门口等着，给了他一杯牛奶，几乎把他拉到了床上。因为达文有着一双善于保守秘密的温和眼睛。但没有女人的目光向他求爱。

His arm was taken in a strong grip and Cranly’s voice said:
他的手臂被紧紧抓住，克兰利的声音说道：

—Let us eke go.
——我们走吧。

They walked southward in silence. Then Cranly said:
他们默默地向南走去。然后克兰利说道：

—That blithering idiot, Temple! I swear to Moses, do you know, that I’ll be the death of that fellow one time.
——坦普尔，那个胡言乱语的白痴！我向摩西发誓，你知道吗，我会成为那个家伙的死者。

But his voice was no longer angry and Stephen wondered was he thinking of her greeting to him under the porch.
但他的声音不再生气，斯蒂芬想知道他是否想起了她在门廊下向他打招呼。

They turned to the left and walked on as before. When they had gone on so for some time Stephen said:
他们向左转，像以前一样继续前行。当他们这样持续了一段时间后，斯蒂芬说：

—Cranly, I had an unpleasant quarrel this evening.
——克兰利，今晚我发生了一场不愉快的争吵。

—With your people? Cranly asked.
——和你的人一起？克兰利问道。

—With my mother.
-与我的母亲。

—About religion?
——关于宗教？

—Yes, Stephen answered.
——是的，斯蒂芬回答。

After a pause Cranly asked:
克兰利停顿了一下后问道：

—What age is your mother?
——你妈妈多大年纪了？

—Not old, Stephen said. She wishes me to make my easter duty.
——不老，史蒂芬说。她希望我履行复活节义务。

—And will you?
——你会吗？

—I will not, Stephen said.
——我不会，史蒂芬说。

—Why not? Cranly said.
-为什么不？克兰利说道。

—I will not serve, answered Stephen.
——我不会服务，史蒂芬回答。

—That remark was made before, Cranly said calmly.
——这句话以前说过，克兰利平静地说。

—It is made behind now, said Stephen hotly.
——现在已经制作完成了，史蒂芬激动地说。

Cranly pressed Stephen’s arm, saying:
克兰利按住斯蒂芬的手臂，说道：

—Go easy, my dear man. You’re an excitable bloody man, do you know.
——放轻松，我亲爱的朋友。你是一个容易激动的人，你知道吗？

He laughed nervously as he spoke and, looking up into Stephen’s face with moved and friendly eyes, said:
他边说边紧张地笑起来，用感动而友好的目光抬头看着斯蒂芬的脸，说道：

—Do you know that you are an excitable man?
——你知道你是一个容易激动的人吗？

—I daresay I am, said Stephen, laughing also.
——我敢说我是，史蒂芬也笑着说。

Their minds, lately estranged, seemed suddenly to have been drawn closer, one to the other.
他们最近疏远的思想似乎突然被拉近了，彼此之间变得更近了。

—Do you believe in the eucharist? Cranly asked.
——你相信圣体圣事吗？克兰利问道。

—I do not, Stephen said.
——我不知道，史蒂芬说。

—Do you disbelieve then?
——那你不信吗？

—I neither believe in it nor disbelieve in it, Stephen answered.
——我既不相信也不不相信，斯蒂芬回答道。

—Many persons have doubts, even religious persons, yet they overcome them or put them aside, Cranly said. Are your doubts on that point too strong?
——克兰利说，许多人都有疑虑，甚至包括宗教人士，但他们克服了这些疑虑或将其放在一边。您对这一点的怀疑是否太强烈了？

—I do not wish to overcome them, Stephen answered.
——我不想克服它们，史蒂芬回答道。

Cranly, embarrassed for a moment, took another fig from his pocket and was about to eat it when Stephen said:
克兰利尴尬了一会儿，从口袋里又掏出一颗无花果，正要吃掉，这时斯蒂芬说道：

—Don’t, please. You cannot discuss this question with your mouth full of chewed fig.
——请不要。你不能在嘴里塞满咀嚼过的无花果的情况下讨论这个问题。

Cranly examined the fig by the light of a lamp under which he halted. Then he smelt it with both nostrils, bit a tiny piece, spat it out and threw the fig rudely into the gutter.
克兰利在灯下停下来检查无花果。然后他用两个鼻孔闻了闻，咬了一小块，吐了出来，粗鲁地把无花果扔进了阴沟里。

Addressing it as it lay, he said:
就目前情况而言，他说：

—Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire!
——离开我吧，你们这些被诅咒的人，进入永恒之火！

Taking Stephen’s arms, he went on again and said:
他握住斯蒂芬的手臂，继续说道：

—Do you not fear that those words may be spoken to you on the day of Judgement?
——你不担心在审判之日有人会对你说这些话吗？

—What is offered me on the other hand? Stephen asked. An eternity of bliss in the company of the dean of studies?
——另一方面，我得到了什么？史蒂芬问。与院长的陪伴是永恒的幸福吗？

—Remember, Cranly said, that he would be glorified.
——记住，克兰利说，他会受到荣耀。

—Ay, Stephen said somewhat bitterly, bright, agile, impassible and, above all, subtle.
——哎呀，史蒂芬有些苦涩地说，他聪明、敏捷、冷漠，最重要的是，很微妙。

—It is a curious thing, do you know, Cranly said dispassionately, how your mind is supersaturated with the religion in which you say you disbelieve. Did you believe in it when you were at school? I bet you did.
——这是一件奇怪的事情，你知道吗，克兰利冷静地说，你的思想如何被你自称不信仰的宗教所淹没。你在学校的时候相信这个吗？我打赌你做到了。

—I did, Stephen answered.
——我做到了，史蒂芬回答道。

—And were you happier then? Cranly asked softly, happier than you are now, for instance?
——那时你更快乐吗？克兰利轻声问道，比方说比你现在幸福吗？

—Often happy, Stephen said, and often unhappy. I was someone else then.
——常常快乐，斯蒂芬说，也常常不快乐。那时我是另外一个人了。

—How someone else? What do you mean by that statement?
——别人怎么样？你这句话是什么意思？

—I mean, said Stephen, that I was not myself as I am now, as I had to become.
——我的意思是，斯蒂芬说，我不再是现在的我，也不再是我必须成为的我。

—Not as you are now, not as you had to become, Cranly repeated. Let me ask you a question. Do you love your mother?
——不是现在的你，也不是你必须成为的样子，克兰利重复道。让我问你一个问题。你爱你的妈妈吗？

Stephen shook his head slowly.
史蒂芬慢慢地摇了摇头。

—I don’t know what your words mean, he said simply.
——我不知道你的话是什么意思，他简单地说。

—Have you never loved anyone? Cranly asked.
——你从来没有爱过任何人吗？克兰利问道。

—Do you mean women?
——你是说女人吗？

—I am not speaking of that, Cranly said in a colder tone. I ask you if you ever felt love towards anyone or anything?
——我不是在说这个，克兰利用更冷的语气说道。我问你，你是否曾对任何人或事感到爱？

Stephen walked on beside his friend, staring gloomily at the footpath.
斯蒂芬在他的朋友身边继续前行，阴沉地盯着人行道。

—I tried to love God, he said at length. It seems now I failed. It is very difficult. I tried to unite my will with the will of God instant by instant. In that I did not always fail. I could perhaps do that still—
——我试图爱上帝，他最后说道。现在看来我失败了。这个非常困难。我试图瞬间将我的意志与上帝的意志结合起来。在这一点上我并不总是失败。我也许还能这么做——

Cranly cut him short by asking:
克兰利打断他的话问道：

—Has your mother had a happy life?
——你母亲的生活幸福吗？

—How do I know? Stephen said.
-我怎么知道？斯蒂芬说。

—How many children had she?
——她有几个孩子？

—Nine or ten, Stephen answered. Some died.
——九个或十个，斯蒂芬回答道。有些人死了。

—Was your father... Cranly interrupted himself for an instant, and then said: I don’t want to pry into your family affairs. But was your father what is called well-to-do? I mean, when you were growing up?
——你的父亲吗……克兰利打断了自己的话，然后说道：我不想打听你的家庭事务。但你的父亲是所谓的小康吗？我是说，当你长大的时候？

—Yes, Stephen said.
——是的，斯蒂芬说。

—What was he? Cranly asked after a pause.
——他是什么？克兰利停顿了一下后问道。

Stephen began to enumerate glibly his father’s attributes.
斯蒂芬开始滔滔不绝地列举他父亲的品质。

—A medical student, an oarsman, a tenor, an amateur actor, a shouting politician, a small landlord, a small investor, a drinker, a good fellow, a story-teller, somebody’s secretary, something in a distillery, a tax-gatherer, a bankrupt and at present a praiser of his own past.
——医学生、桨手、男高音、业余演员、大喊大叫的政客、小地主、小投资者、酒鬼、好人、讲故事的人、某人的秘书、酿酒厂里的东西、税务员——采集者，一个破产者，现在对自己的过去赞不绝口。

Cranly laughed, tightening his grip on Stephen’s arm, and said:
克兰利大笑起来，握紧了斯蒂芬的手臂，说道：

—The distillery is damn good.
——这家酿酒厂真是太棒了。

—Is there anything else you want to know? Stephen asked.
——你还有什么想知道的吗？史蒂芬问。

—Are you in good circumstances at present?
——你现在的情况还好吗？

—Do I look it? Stephen asked bluntly.
——我看起来像吗？斯蒂芬直言不讳地问道。

—So then, Cranly went on musingly, you were born in the lap of luxury.
——那么，克兰利若有所思地继续说道，你出生在奢侈的环境中。

He used the phrase broadly and loudly as he often used technical expressions, as if he wished his hearer to understand that they were used by him without conviction.
他广泛而大声地使用了这个短语，就像他经常使用技术性表达一样，仿佛他希望他的听众明白他在毫无说服力的情况下使用了这些短语。

—Your mother must have gone through a good deal of suffering, he said then. Would you not try to save her from suffering more even if... or would you?
——你的母亲一定经历了很多痛苦，他当时说道。即使……你不会尝试让她免遭更多痛苦吗？

—If I could, Stephen said, that would cost me very little.
——如果我能做到的话，斯蒂芬说，那我花的钱就很少了。

—Then do so, Cranly said. Do as she wishes you to do. What is it for you? You disbelieve in it. It is a form: nothing else. And you will set her mind at rest.
——那就这么做吧，克兰利说。做她希望你做的事。这对你来说有什么用？你不相信它。它只是一种形式：没有别的。你会让她安心。

He ceased and, as Stephen did not reply, remained silent. Then, as if giving utterance to the process of his own thought, he said:
由于斯蒂芬没有回答，他停了下来，保持沉默。然后，他仿佛在诉说自己的思考过程，说道：

—Whatever else is unsure in this stinking dunghill of a world a mother’s love is not. Your mother brings you into the world, carries you first in her body. What do we know about what she feels? But whatever she feels, it, at least, must be real. It must be. What are our ideas or ambitions? Play. Ideas! Why, that bloody bleating goat Temple has ideas. MacCann has ideas too. Every jackass going the roads thinks he has ideas.
——在这个臭烘烘的粪堆世界里，还有什么是不确定的，而母爱则不然。你的母亲把你带到这个世界上，把你首先带在她的身体里。我们对她的感受了解多少？但无论她感觉如何，至少它一定是真实的。一定是。我们的想法或抱负是什么？玩。想法！哎呀，坦普尔那只该死的咩咩叫的山羊有想法。麦肯也有想法。每一个走在路上的蠢货都认为他有想法。

Stephen, who had been listening to the unspoken speech behind the words, said with assumed carelessness:
斯蒂芬一直在听着这句话背后的无声言论，假装漫不经心地说：

—Pascal, if I remember rightly, would not suffer his mother to kiss him as he feared the contact of her sex.
——帕斯卡，如果我没记错的话，不会允许他的母亲亲吻他，因为他害怕接触她的性器官。

—Pascal was a pig, said Cranly.
——帕斯卡是头猪，克兰利说。

—Aloysius Gonzaga, I think, was of the same mind, Stephen said.
——我想阿洛伊修斯·冈萨加也有同样的想法，斯蒂芬说。

—And he was another pig then, said Cranly.
——那时他就是另一头猪了，克兰利说。

—The church calls him a saint, Stephen objected.
——教会称他为圣人，斯蒂芬反对。

—I don’t care a flaming damn what anyone calls him, Cranly said rudely and flatly. I call him a pig.
——我根本不在乎别人怎么称呼他，克兰利粗鲁而平淡地说。我叫他猪。

Stephen, preparing the words neatly in his mind, continued:
斯蒂芬在心里整齐地准备着这句话，继续说道：

—Jesus, too, seems to have treated his mother with scant courtesy in public but Suarez, a jesuit theologian and Spanish gentleman, has apologized for him.
——耶稣在公共场合似乎也没有礼貌地对待他的母亲，但耶稣会神学家和西班牙绅士苏亚雷斯已经为他道歉了。

—Did the idea ever occur to you, Cranly asked, that Jesus was not what he pretended to be?
——克兰利问，你有没有想过，耶稣并不像他假装的那样？

—The first person to whom that idea occurred, Stephen answered, was Jesus himself.
——斯蒂芬回答说，第一个想到这个想法的人就是耶稣本人。

—I mean, Cranly said, hardening in his speech, did the idea ever occur to you that he was himself a conscious hypocrite, what he called the jews of his time, a whited sepulchre? Or, to put it more plainly, that he was a blackguard?
——我的意思是，克兰利语气强硬地说，你有没有想过他自己是一个有意识的伪君子，他称之为他那个时代的犹太人，一座白色的坟墓？或者说得更直白一点，他就是一个流氓？

—That idea never occurred to me, Stephen answered. But I am curious to know are you trying to make a convert of me or a pervert of yourself?
——我从来没有想到过这个想法，史蒂芬回答道。但我很好奇你是想让我皈依还是让你自己变态？

He turned towards his friend’s face and saw there a raw smile which some force of will strove to make finely significant.
他转向他朋友的脸，看到那里有一个原始的微笑，某种意志力努力使它变得非常有意义。

Cranly asked suddenly in a plain sensible tone:
克兰利突然用一种平淡而明智的语气问道：

—Tell me the truth. Were you at all shocked by what I said?
-告诉我真相。你对我说的话感到震惊吗？

—Somewhat, Stephen said.
——有点，史蒂芬说。

—And why were you shocked, Cranly pressed on in the same tone, if you feel sure that our religion is false and that Jesus was not the son of God?
——克兰利用同样的语气继续追问，如果你确信我们的宗教是错误的并且耶稣不是上帝的儿子，你为什么会感到震惊呢？

—I am not at all sure of it, Stephen said. He is more like a son of God than a son of Mary.
——我一点也不确定，史蒂芬说。他更像是上帝的儿子而不是玛丽的儿子。

—And is that why you will not communicate, Cranly asked, because you are not sure of that too, because you feel that the host, too, may be the body and blood of the son of God and not a wafer of bread? And because you fear that it may be?
——这就是你不肯交流的原因吗？克兰利问，因为你也不确定这一点，因为你觉得宿主也可能是上帝之子的身体和血液，而不是一块面包？因为你担心它可能是这样？

—Yes, Stephen said quietly, I feel that and I also fear it.
——是的，史蒂芬平静地说，我感觉到了这一点，而且我也害怕它。

—I see, Cranly said.
——我明白了，克兰利说。

Stephen, struck by his tone of closure, reopened the discussion at once by saying:
斯蒂芬对他的结束语气感到震惊，立即重新开始讨论，他说：

—I fear many things: dogs, horses, fire-arms, the sea, thunder-storms, machinery, the country roads at night.
——我害怕很多东西：狗、马、枪械、大海、雷暴、机械、夜间的乡村道路。

—But why do you fear a bit of bread?
——但是你为什么害怕一点面包呢？

—I imagine, Stephen said, that there is a malevolent reality behind those things I say I fear.
——斯蒂芬说，我想，在我所说的那些我害怕的事情背后，存在着一个恶毒的现实。

—Do you fear then, Cranly asked, that the God of the Roman catholics would strike you dead and damn you if you made a sacrilegious communion?
——克兰利问道，那么你是否担心，如果你进行了亵渎的圣餐，罗马天主教徒的上帝会打死你并诅咒你？

—The God of the Roman catholics could do that now, Stephen said. I fear more than that the chemical action which would be set up in my soul by a false homage to a symbol behind which are massed twenty centuries of authority and veneration.
——罗马天主教徒的上帝现在可以做到这一点，斯蒂芬说。我更担心的是，对一个象征的虚假敬意会在我的灵魂中产生化学反应，而这个象征背后聚集着二十个世纪的权威和崇敬。

—Would you, Cranly asked, in extreme danger, commit that particular sacrilege? For instance, if you lived in the penal days?
——克兰利问道，在极度危险的情况下，你会犯下这种亵渎行为吗？例如，如果您生活在刑罚时期？

—I cannot answer for the past, Stephen replied. Possibly not.
——我无法回答过去的问题，史蒂芬回答道。可能不是。

—Then, said Cranly, you do not intend to become a protestant?
——那么，克兰利说，你不打算成为一名新教徒吗？

—I said that I had lost the faith, Stephen answered, but not that I had lost self-respect. What kind of liberation would that be to forsake an absurdity which is logical and coherent and to embrace one which is illogical and incoherent?
——我说我失去了信仰，斯蒂芬回答道，但并不是说我失去了自尊。放弃一种合乎逻辑、连贯的荒谬，而拥抱一种不合逻辑、不连贯的荒谬，这会是一种什么样的解放呢？

They had walked on towards the township of Pembroke and now, as they went on slowly along the avenues, the trees and the scattered lights in the villas soothed their minds. The air of wealth and repose diffused about them seemed to comfort their neediness. Behind a hedge of laurel a light glimmered in the window of a kitchen and the voice of a servant was heard singing as she sharpened knives. She sang, in short broken bars:
他们一直朝彭布罗克镇走去，现在，当他们沿着大道慢慢前行时，别墅里的树木和零星的灯光舒缓了他们的心情。他们周围弥漫着富裕和宁静的气氛，似乎可以满足他们的需要。月桂树篱后，厨房的窗户里闪着微光，仆人磨刀的声音传来。她用断断续续的短小节唱道：

Rosie O’Grady.
罗西·奥格雷迪。

Cranly stopped to listen, saying:
克兰利停下来听，说道：

—MULIER CANTAT.
——穆利尔康塔。

The soft beauty of the Latin word touched with an enchanting touch the dark of the evening, with a touch fainter and more persuading than the touch of music or of a woman’s hand. The strife of their minds was quelled. The figure of a woman as she appears in the liturgy of the church passed silently through the darkness: a white-robed figure, small and slender as a boy, and with a falling girdle. Her voice, frail and high as a boy’s, was heard intoning from a distant choir the first words of a woman which pierce the gloom and clamour of the first chanting of the passion:
这个拉丁词的柔和之美在漆黑的夜晚中带有一种迷人的触感，这种触感比音乐或女人的手的触感更微弱、更有说服力。他们心中的纷争就此平息。一个女人的身影出现在教堂的礼拜仪式上，静静地穿过黑暗：一个穿着白袍的身影，身材瘦小，像个男孩，腰带垂落。她的声音像男孩一样脆弱而高亢，从远处的唱诗班中传来，她吟诵着一个女人的第一句话，穿透了第一首激情吟唱的阴郁和喧闹：

—ET TU CUM JESU GALILAEO ERAS.
——《耶稣伽利略时代》。

And all hearts were touched and turned to her voice, shining like a young star, shining clearer as the voice intoned the proparoxytone and more faintly as the cadence died.
所有的心都被触动并转向她的声音，她的声音像一颗年轻的星星一样闪闪发光，随着声音吟诵丙苯酮，声音变得更加清晰，随着节奏的结束，声音变得更加微弱。

The singing ceased. They went on together, Cranly repeating in strongly stressed rhythm the end of the refrain:
歌声停止了。他们一起继续前进，克兰利以强烈的节奏重复着副歌的结尾：

And when we are married,
而当我们结婚的时候，

O, how happy we’ll be
哦，我们会多么幸福

For I love sweet Rosie O’Grady
因为我爱甜蜜的罗西·奥格雷迪

And Rosie O’Grady loves me.
罗西·奥格雷迪爱我。

—There’s real poetry for you, he said. There’s real love.
——这是给你的真正的诗，他说。有真爱。

He glanced sideways at Stephen with a strange smile and said:
他带着奇怪的微笑斜眼看了史蒂芬一眼，说道：

—Do you consider that poetry? Or do you know what the words mean?
——你认为那首诗吗？或者你知道这些词的意思吗？

—I want to see Rosie first, said Stephen.
——我想先见罗西，史蒂芬说。

—She’s easy to find, Cranly said.
——她很容易找到，克兰利说。

His hat had come down on his forehead. He shoved it back and in the shadow of the trees Stephen saw his pale face, framed by the dark, and his large dark eyes. Yes. His face was handsome and his body was strong and hard. He had spoken of a mother’s love. He felt then the sufferings of women, the weaknesses of their bodies and souls; and would shield them with a strong and resolute arm and bow his mind to them.
他的帽子掉到了额头上。他把它推了回去，在树荫下，斯蒂芬看到了他苍白的脸，被黑暗所包围，还有他那双黑色的大眼睛。是的。他的面容英俊，身体强健坚硬。他谈到了母爱。那时他感受到了女人的痛苦，她们身体和灵魂的弱点；他会用坚强而坚定的手臂保护他们，并让他的思想屈服于他们。

Away then: it is time to go. A voice spoke softly to Stephen’s lonely heart, bidding him go and telling him that his friendship was coming to an end. Yes; he would go. He could not strive against another. He knew his part.
那么离开：是时候离开了。一个声音温柔地对斯蒂芬孤独的心说话，叫他走，并告诉他，他的友谊即将结束。是的;他会去的。他无法与他人对抗。他知道自己的职责。

—Probably I shall go away, he said.
——也许我会离开，他说。

—Where? Cranly asked.
-在哪里？克兰利问道。

—Where I can, Stephen said.
——只要我能做到，斯蒂芬说。

—Yes, Cranly said. It might be difficult for you to live here now. But is it that makes you go?
——是的，克兰利说。你现在住在这里可能会很困难。但这是让你离开的原因吗？

—I have to go, Stephen answered.
——我得走了，斯蒂芬回答。

—Because, Cranly continued, you need not look upon yourself as driven away if you do not wish to go or as a heretic or an outlaw. There are many good believers who think as you do. Would that surprise you? The church is not the stone building nor even the clergy and their dogmas. It is the whole mass of those born into it. I don’t know what you wish to do in life. Is it what you told me the night we were standing outside Harcourt Street station?
——因为，克兰利继续说道，如果你不想去，你不必把自己视为被赶走的人，也不必把自己视为异端或亡命之徒。有很多好的信徒和你的想法一样。这会让你感到惊讶吗？教堂不是石头建筑，也不是神职人员和他们的教条。它是那些出生在其中的人的全部。我不知道你一生想做什么。是我们站在哈考特街车站外面那天晚上你告诉我的吗？

—Yes, Stephen said, smiling in spite of himself at Cranly’s way of remembering thoughts in connexion with places. The night you spent half an hour wrangling with Doherty about the shortest way from Sallygap to Larras.
——是的，史蒂芬说，对克兰利记忆与地点有关的想法的方式不由自主地笑了。那天晚上，您花了半个小时与多尔蒂争论从萨利加普到拉拉斯的最短路线。

—Pothead! Cranly said with calm contempt. What does he know about the way from Sallygap to Larras? Or what does he know about anything for that matter? And the big slobbering washing-pot head of him!
——瘾君子！克兰利平静地轻蔑地说。他对从萨利加普到拉拉斯的路了解多少？或者说他对此了解多少？还有他那个流着口水的洗衣盆大头！

He broke into a loud long laugh.
他爆发出一声长长的大笑。

—Well? Stephen said. Do you remember the rest?
-出色地？斯蒂芬说。剩下的你还记得吗？

—What you said, is it? Cranly asked. Yes, I remember it. To discover the mode of life or of art whereby your spirit could express itself in unfettered freedom.
——你说的是吗？克兰利问道。是的，我记得。发现生活方式或艺术的方式，让你的精神可以不受约束地自由表达自己。

Stephen raised his hat in acknowledgement.
斯蒂芬举起帽子表示感谢。

—Freedom! Cranly repeated. But you are not free enough yet to commit a sacrilege. Tell me would you rob?
-自由！克兰利重复道。但你还没有足够的自由来进行亵渎行为。告诉我你会抢劫吗？

—I would beg first, Stephen said.
——我会先请求，斯蒂芬说。

—And if you got nothing, would you rob?
——如果你一无所有，你会抢劫吗？

—You wish me to say, Stephen answered, that the rights of property are provisional, and that in certain circumstances it is not unlawful to rob. Everyone would act in that belief. So I will not make you that answer. Apply to the jesuit theologian, Juan Mariana de Talavera, who will also explain to you in what circumstances you may lawfully Kill your king and whether you had better hand him his poison in a goblet or smear it for him upon his robe or his saddlebow. Ask me rather would I suffer others to rob me, or if they did, would I call down upon them what I believe is called the chastisement of the secular arm?
——你希望我说，斯蒂芬回答说，财产权是临时的，在某些情况下，抢劫并不违法。每个人都会本着这个信念行事。所以我不会给你这个答案。向耶稣会神学家胡安·马里亚纳·德·塔拉韦拉求助，他也会向你解释在什么情况下你可以合法地杀死你的国王，以及你是否最好将毒药盛在高脚杯里递给他，还是涂在他的长袍或马鞍弓上。问我，我是否会允许别人抢劫我，或者如果他们这样做了，我是否会向他们呼吁我所认为的所谓世俗手臂的惩罚？

—And would you?
——你会吗？

—I think, Stephen said, it would pain me as much to do so as to be robbed.
——我想，斯蒂芬说，这样做和被抢劫一样让我痛苦。

—I see, Cranly said.
——我明白了，克兰利说。

He produced his match and began to clean the crevice between two teeth. Then he said carelessly:
他拿出火柴，开始清理两颗牙齿之间的缝隙。然后他漫不经心地说：

—Tell me, for example, would you deflower a virgin?
——举例来说，你会让处女破花吗？

—Excuse me, Stephen said politely, is that not the ambition of most young gentlemen?
——请问，斯蒂芬礼貌地说，这不是大多数年轻绅士的抱负吗？

—What then is your point of view? Cranly asked.
——那么你的观点是什么呢？克兰利问道。

His last phrase, sour smelling as the smoke of charcoal and disheartening, excited Stephen’s brain, over which its fumes seemed to brood.
他的最后一句话，像木炭的烟雾一样酸臭，令人沮丧，刺激了斯蒂芬的大脑，它的烟雾似乎在沉思。

—Look here, Cranly, he said. You have asked me what I would do and what I would not do. I will tell you what I will do and what I will not do. I will not serve that in which I no longer believe, whether it call itself my home, my fatherland, or my church: and I will try to express myself in some mode of life or art as freely as I can and as wholly as I can, using for my defence the only arms I allow myself to use— silence, exile, and cunning.
——看这里，克兰利，他说。你问过我会做什么，不会做什么。我会告诉你我会做什么和不会做什么。我不会为我不再相信的事物服务，无论它自称为我的家、我的祖国还是我的教会：我将尽力以某种生活方式或艺术方式尽可能自由地、完全地表达自己。可以，用我允许自己使用的唯一武器来保卫我——沉默、流放和狡猾。

Cranly seized his arm and steered him round so as to lead him back towards Leeson Park. He laughed almost slyly and pressed Stephen’s arm with an elder’s affection.
克兰利抓住他的手臂，引导他转身，带他回到利森公园。他近乎狡猾地笑了一声，以长辈的慈爱压住了斯蒂芬的手臂。

—Cunning indeed! he said. Is it you? You poor poet, you!
——确实狡猾！他说。是你吗？你这个可怜的诗人！

—And you made me confess to you, Stephen said, thrilled by his touch, as I have confessed to you so many other things, have I not?
——你让我向你坦白，史蒂芬说，他的触摸让我兴奋不已，就像我向你坦白了许多其他事情一样，不是吗？

—Yes, my child, Cranly said, still gaily.
——是的，我的孩子，克兰利仍然高兴地说。

—You made me confess the fears that I have. But I will tell you also what I do not fear. I do not fear to be alone or to be spurned for another or to leave whatever I have to leave. And I am not afraid to make a mistake, even a great mistake, a lifelong mistake, and perhaps as long as eternity too.
——你让我承认了我的恐惧。但我也会告诉你我不害怕什么。我不害怕孤独，也不害怕被别人抛弃，也不害怕离开我必须离开的一切。我不怕犯错误，哪怕是一个巨大的错误，一个终生的错误，甚至可能是永恒的错误。

Cranly, now grave again, slowed his pace and said:
克兰利现在又变得严肃起来，放慢了脚步，说道：

—Alone, quite alone. You have no fear of that. And you know what that word means? Not only to be separate from all others but to have not even one friend.
——孤独，非常孤独。你不用担心这个。你知道这个词的意思吗？不仅与其他人隔绝，而且连一个朋友都没有。

—I will take the risk, said Stephen.
——我愿意冒这个险，斯蒂芬说。

—And not to have any one person, Cranly said, who would be more than a friend, more even than the noblest and truest friend a man ever had.
——克兰利说，不要有任何一个人比朋友更重要，甚至比一个人曾经拥有过的最高尚、最真诚的朋友更重要。

His words seemed to have struck some deep chord in his own nature. Had he spoken of himself, of himself as he was or wished to be? Stephen watched his face for some moments in silence. A cold sadness was there. He had spoken of himself, of his own loneliness which he feared.
他的话似乎触动了他内心深处的共鸣。他有没有谈论过他自己，谈论过他现在的样子或者他希望成为的样子？斯蒂芬沉默地注视着他的脸一会儿。一股冰冷的悲伤涌上心头。他谈到了他自己，谈到了他所害怕的孤独。

—Of whom are you speaking? Stephen asked at length.
——你说的是谁？斯蒂芬详细问道。

Cranly did not answer.
克兰利没有回答。

*****

MARCH 20. Long talk with Cranly on the subject of my revolt.
3 月 20 日。与克兰利就我的反抗话题进行了长谈。

He had his grand manner on. I supple and suave. Attacked me on the score of love for one’s mother. Tried to imagine his mother: cannot. Told me once, in a moment of thoughtlessness, his father was sixty-one when he was born. Can see him. Strong farmer type. Pepper and salt suit. Square feet. Unkempt, grizzled beard. Probably attends coursing matches. Pays his dues regularly but not plentifully to Father Dwyer of Larras. Sometimes talks to girls after nightfall. But his mother? Very young or very old? Hardly the first. If so, Cranly would not have spoken as he did. Old then. Probably, and neglected. Hence Cranly’s despair of soul: the child of exhausted loins.
他的举止很有威严。我温柔又温文尔雅。以对母亲的爱来攻击我。试图想象他的母亲：不能。有一次，他一不小心告诉我，他的父亲出生时已经六十一岁了。能看见他。强农型。胡椒和盐套装。平方英尺。蓬头垢面，胡须花白。可能会参加赛马比赛。定期但不充足地向拉拉斯的德怀尔神父缴纳会费。有时夜幕降临后会和女孩聊天。但他的母亲呢？很年轻还是很老？几乎不是第一个。如果是这样，克兰利就不会像他那样说话了。那时老了。可能，并且被忽视了。因此，克兰利对灵魂感到绝望：腰部疲惫的孩子。

MARCH 21, MORNING. Thought this in bed last night but was too lazy and free to add to it. Free, yes. The exhausted loins are those of Elizabeth and Zacchary. Then he is the precursor. Item: he eats chiefly belly bacon and dried figs. Read locusts and wild honey. Also, when thinking of him, saw always a stern severed head or death mask as if outlined on a grey curtain or veronica. Decollation they call it in the gold. Puzzled for the moment by saint John at the Latin gate. What do I see? A decollated percursor trying to pick the lock.
3 月 21 日，早上。昨晚在床上想到了这个，但太懒了，没有空添加它。免费，是的。疲惫的腰部是伊丽莎白和扎卡里的腰部。那么他就是先驱。项目：他主要吃培根和无花果干。读《蝗虫野蜜》。而且，当想起他时，总是会看到一个严肃的断头或死亡面具，仿佛在灰色的窗帘或维罗妮卡上勾勒出轮廓。他们称之为黄金装饰。拉丁门前的圣约翰一时感到困惑。我看到了什么？一个试图撬开锁的被脱去的光标。

MARCH 21, NIGHT. Free. Soul free and fancy free. Let the dead bury the dead. Ay. And let the dead marry the dead.
3 月 21 日晚上。自由的。灵魂自由，幻想自由。让死者埋葬死者。哎呀。并让死者与死者结婚。

MARCH 22. In company with Lynch followed a sizeable hospital nurse. Lynch’s idea. Dislike it. Two lean hungry greyhounds walking after a heifer.
3 月 22 日，林奇的身边跟着一位身材魁梧的医院护士。林奇的主意。不喜欢它。两只瘦瘦饥饿的灰狗追着一头小母牛。

MARCH 23. Have not seen her since that night. Unwell? Sits at the fire perhaps with mamma’s shawl on her shoulders. But not peevish. A nice bowl of gruel? Won’t you now?
3 月 23 日。从那天晚上起就没有见过她了。不适？坐在火边，肩上也许披着妈妈的披肩。但并不暴躁。一碗美味的稀粥？现在你不会吗？

MARCH 24. Began with a discussion with my mother. Subject: B.V.M. Handicapped by my sex and youth. To escape held up relations between Jesus and Papa against those between Mary and her son. Said religion was not a lying-in hospital. Mother indulgent. Said I have a queer mind and have read too much. Not true. Have read little and understood less. Then she said I would come back to faith because I had a restless mind. This means to leave church by back door of sin and re-enter through the skylight of repentance. Cannot repent. Told her so and asked for sixpence. Got threepence.
3 月 24 日。从与我母亲的讨论开始。主题：B.V.M.我的性别和青春阻碍了我。为了逃避耶稣和爸爸之间的关系与玛丽和她儿子之间的关系。说宗教不是产科医院。母亲纵容。说我有奇怪的想法并且读得太多。不对。读得少，理解得少。然后她说我会回归信仰，因为我的心不安。这意味着从罪的后门离开教会，从悔改的天窗重新进入。无法悔改。告诉她这些并要六便士。有三便士。

Then went to college. Other wrangle with little round head rogue’s eye Ghezzi. This time about Bruno the Nolan. Began in Italian and ended in pidgin English. He said Bruno was a terrible heretic. I said he was terribly burned. He agreed to this with some sorrow. Then gave me recipe for what he calls RISOTTO ALLA BERGAMASCA. When he pronounces a soft O he protrudes his full carnal lips as if he kissed the vowel. Has he? And could he repent? Yes, he could: and cry two round rogue’s tears, one from each eye.
然后上了大学。其他与小圆头流氓眼Ghezzi的争吵。这次是关于诺兰布鲁诺。以意大利语开始，以洋泾浜英语结束。他说布鲁诺是一个可怕的异教徒。我说他被严重烧伤了。他带着些许悲伤同意了这一点。然后给了我他所谓的意大利烩饭的食谱。当他发出轻柔的“O”时，他会伸出丰满的肉唇，就好像他亲吻了元音一样。他有吗？他能悔改吗？是的，他可以：流下两滴圆滚滚的流氓眼泪，每只眼睛各流一滴。

Crossing Stephen’s, that is, my green, remembered that his countrymen and not mine had invented what Cranly the other night called our religion. A quartet of them, soldiers of the ninety-seventh infantry regiment, sat at the foot of the cross and tossed up dice for the overcoat of the crucified.
穿过斯蒂芬的果岭，也就是我的果岭，想起是他的同胞而不是我的同胞发明了克兰利那天晚上所说的我们的宗教。他们四人，第九十七步兵团的士兵，坐在十字架下，掷骰子为受难者穿上大衣。

Went to library. Tried to read three reviews. Useless. She is not out yet. Am I alarmed? About what? That she will never be out again.
去了图书馆。尝试阅读三篇评论。无用。她还没出来。我惊慌了吗？关于什么？她再也不会出去了。

Blake wrote:
布莱克写道：

I wonder if William Bond will die
我想知道威廉·邦德是否会死

For assuredly he is very ill.
毫无疑问，他病得很重。

Alas, poor William!
唉，可怜的威廉！

I was once at a diorama in Rotunda. At the end were pictures of big nobs. Among them William Ewart Gladstone, just then dead. Orchestra played O WILLIE, WE HAVE MISSED YOU.
我曾经参观过圆形大厅的立体模型。最后是大人物的照片。其中包括威廉·尤尔特·格莱斯顿，当时他刚刚去世。管弦乐队演奏《奥威利，我们想念你》。

A race of clodhoppers!
一群土包子！

MARCH 25, MORNING. A troubled night of dreams. Want to get them off my chest.
3 月 25 日，早上。一个充满烦恼的梦之夜。想让它们离开我的胸膛。

A long curving gallery. From the floor ascend pillars of dark vapours. It is peopled by the images of fabulous kings, set in stone. Their hands are folded upon their knees in token of weariness and their eyes are darkened for the errors of men go up before them for ever as dark vapours.
一条长长的弯曲画廊。黑暗的蒸气柱从地板上升起。它充满了神话般的国王的雕像，镶嵌在石头上。他们的双手交叉放在膝盖上，表示疲倦，他们的眼睛变暗，因为人们的错误像黑色的蒸汽一样永远浮现在他们面前。

Strange figures advance as from a cave. They are not as tall as men. One does not seem to stand quite apart from another. Their faces are phosphorescent, with darker streaks. They peer at me and their eyes seem to ask me something. They do not speak.
奇怪的人物像从山洞里走出来一样。他们不像男人那么高。一个人似乎与另一个人并没有完全分开。他们的脸发出磷光，并带有较暗的条纹。他们凝视着我，眼神似乎在问我什么。他们不说话。

MARCH 30. This evening Cranly was in the porch of the library, proposing a problem to Dixon and her brother. A mother let her child fall into the Nile. Still harping on the mother. A crocodile seized the child. Mother asked it back. Crocodile said all right if she told him what he was going to do with the child, eat it or not eat It.
3 月 30 日。今天晚上，克兰利在图书馆的门廊里，向迪克森和她的兄弟提出了一个问题。一位母亲让她的孩子掉进尼罗河。还在念念不忘母亲。一条鳄鱼抓住了孩子。母亲反问道。克洛克达尔说，如果她告诉他要怎么处理孩子，吃还是不吃，那好吧。

This mentality, Lepidus would say, is indeed bred out of your mud by the operation of your sun.
雷必达斯会说，这种心态确实是通过太阳的运作从泥土中孕育出来的。

And mine? Is it not too? Then into Nile mud with it!
那我的呢？不也是吗？那就一起进尼罗河泥吧！

APRIL 1. Disapprove of this last phrase.
四月 1. 不同意最后这句话。

APRIL 2. Saw her drinking tea and eating cakes in Johnston’s, Mooney and O’Brien’s. Rather, lynx-eyed Lynch saw her as we passed. He tells me Cranly was invited there by brother. Did he bring his crocodile? Is he the shining light now? Well, I discovered him. I protest I did. Shining quietly behind a bushel of Wicklow bran.
4 月 2 日。看到她在 Johnston’s、Mooney 和 O’Brien’s 喝茶、吃蛋糕。相反，当我们经过时，长着山猫眼的林奇看到了她。他告诉我克兰利是受哥哥邀请去那里的。他带来了他的鳄鱼吗？他现在是闪耀的光芒吗？嗯，我发现了他。我抗议我这么做了。在一蒲式耳威克洛麸皮后面静静地闪耀。

APRIL 3. Met Davin at the cigar shop opposite Findlater’s church. He was in a black sweater and had a hurley stick. Asked me was it true I was going away and why. Told him the shortest way to Tara was VIA Holyhead. Just then my father came up. Introduction. Father polite and observant. Asked Davin if he might offer him some refreshment. Davin could not, was going to a meeting. When we came away father told me he had a good honest eye. Asked me why I did not join a rowing club. I pretended to think it over. Told me then how he broke Pennyfeather’s heart. Wants me to read law. Says I was cut out for that. More mud, more crocodiles.
4 月 3 日，在 Findlater 教堂对面的雪茄店遇见了 Davin。他穿着一件黑色毛衣，拿着一根赫尔利棍。问我是否真的要离开以及为什么。告诉他前往塔拉的最近路线是通过霍利黑德 (VIA Holyhead)。就在这时，我父亲走了过来。介绍。父亲彬彬有礼，善于观察。问达文是否可以给他一些茶点。达文不能，要去参加一个会议。当我们离开时，父亲告诉我他有一双诚实的眼睛。问我为什么不加入赛艇俱乐部。我假装思考了一下。然后告诉我他是如何伤了彭尼羽的心的。要我读法律。说我不适合做这个。更多的泥巴，更多的鳄鱼。

APRIL 5. Wild spring. Scudding clouds. O life! Dark stream of swirling bogwater on which apple-trees have cast down their delicate flowers. Eyes of girls among the leaves. Girls demure and romping. All fair or auburn: no dark ones. They blush better. Houpla!
4 月 5 日。狂野的春天。云朵滚滚。生命啊！漩涡状沼泽水的暗流，苹果树上绽放着娇嫩的花朵。树叶间女孩的眼睛。女孩们端庄而活泼。全部是浅色或赤褐色：没有深色的。他们脸红得更好。胡普拉！

APRIL 6. Certainly she remembers the past. Lynch says all women do. Then she remembers the time of her childhood—and mine, if I was ever a child. The past is consumed in the present and the present is living only because it brings forth the future. Statues of women, if Lynch be right, should always be fully draped, one hand of the woman feeling regretfully her own hinder parts.
4 月 6 日。她当然记得过去。林奇说所有女人都这样。然后她记起了她的童年时光——还有我的童年时光，如果我曾经是个孩子的话。过去被现在所消耗，而现在之所以活着，只是因为它带来了未来。如果林奇是对的，女性雕像应该总是全身披着，女性的一只手遗憾地摸着自己的臀部。

APRIL 6, LATER. Michael Robartes remembers forgotten beauty and, when his arms wrap her round, he presses in his arms the loveliness which has long faded from the world. Not this. Not at all. I desire to press in my arms the loveliness which has not yet come into the world.
4 月 6 日，稍后。迈克尔·罗巴茨（Michael Robartes）想起了被遗忘的美丽，当他用双臂拥抱她时，他将早已从世界上消失的可爱压在怀里。不是这个。一点也不。我渴望将尚未来到世间的可爱抱在怀里。

APRIL 10. Faintly, under the heavy night, through the silence of the city which has turned from dreams to dreamless sleep as a weary lover whom no caresses move, the sound of hoofs upon the road. Not so faintly now as they come near the bridge; and in a moment, as they pass the darkened windows, the silence is cloven by alarm as by an arrow. They are heard now far away, hoofs that shine amid the heavy night as gems, hurrying beyond the sleeping fields to what journey’s end—what heart? —bearing what tidings?
4月10日，在沉沉的夜色下，隐隐约约地，穿过城市的寂静，从梦境转为无梦的睡眠，就像一个疲惫的恋人，没有爱抚，路上有马蹄声。当他们靠近桥时，现在不再那么微弱；刹那间，当他们经过漆黑的窗户时，寂静被箭般的惊慌所打破。现在可以听到他们的声音在很远的地方，马蹄在沉重的夜色中像宝石一样闪闪发光，匆匆穿过沉睡的田野，奔向什么旅程的终点​​——什么心？ ——带来什么消息？

APRIL 11. Read what I wrote last night. Vague words for a vague emotion. Would she like it? I think so. Then I should have to like it also.
4 月 11 日。阅读我昨晚写的内容。模糊的言语表达着模糊的情感。她会喜欢吗？我想是这样。那我也应该喜欢它。

APRIL 13. That tundish has been on my mind for a long time. I looked it up and find it English and good old blunt English too. Damn the dean of studies and his funnel! What did he come here for to teach us his own language or to learn it from us. Damn him one way or the other!
4 月 13 日。那个中间包已经在我脑海里呆了很长时间了。我查了一下，发现它是英语，而且也是古老而直率的英语。该死的院长和他的漏斗！他来这里教我们他自己的语言或向我们学习它的目的是什么？不管怎样都该死他！

APRIL 14. John Alphonsus Mulrennan has just returned from the west of Ireland. European and Asiatic papers please copy. He told us he met an old man there in a mountain cabin. Old man had red eyes and short pipe. Old man spoke Irish. Mulrennan spoke Irish. Then old man and Mulrennan spoke English. Mulrennan spoke to him about universe and stars. Old man sat, listened, smoked, spat. Then said:
4 月 14 日。John Alphonsus Mulrennan 刚刚从爱尔兰西部返回。欧洲和亚洲报纸请复印。他告诉我们他在山间小屋里遇到了一位老人。老人的眼睛是红的，烟斗很短。老人说爱尔兰语。穆尔伦南说爱尔兰语。然后老人和穆伦南说英语。穆尔伦南向他讲述了宇宙和恒星。老人坐着，听着，抽烟，吐口水。然后说：

—Ah, there must be terrible queer creatures at the latter end of the world.
——啊，世界的尽头一定有可怕的奇怪生物。

I fear him. I fear his red-rimmed horny eyes. It is with him I must struggle all through this night till day come, till he or I lie dead, gripping him by the sinewy throat till... Till what? Till he yield to me? No. I mean no harm.
我害怕他。我害怕他红边的角质眼睛。我必须和他一起度过这一夜，直到天亮，直到他或我死去，抓住他有力的喉咙，直到……直到什么？直到他屈服于我？不，我无意伤害。

APRIL 15. Met her today point blank in Grafton Street. The crowd brought us together. We both stopped. She asked me why I never came, said she had heard all sorts of stories about me. This was only to gain time. Asked me was I writing poems? About whom? I asked her. This confused her more and I felt sorry and mean. Turned off that valve at once and opened the spiritual-heroic refrigerating apparatus, invented and patented in all countries by Dante Alighieri. Talked rapidly of myself and my plans. In the midst of it unluckily I made a sudden gesture of a revolutionary nature. I must have looked like a fellow throwing a handful of peas into the air. People began to look at us. She shook hands a moment after and, in going away, said she hoped I would do what I said.
4 月 15 日。今天在格拉夫顿街与她面对面见面。人群把我们聚集在一起。我们都停了下来。她问我为什么没来，说她听过各种各样关于我的故事。这只是为了赢得时间。问我写诗吗？关于谁？我问她。这让她更加困惑，我感到抱歉和刻薄。立即关闭阀门并打开精神英雄制冷装置，该装置由但丁·阿利吉耶里发明并在所有国家获得专利。快速地谈论了我自己和我的计划。不幸的是，我突然做出了一个革命性的举动。我看起来一定像一个把一把豌豆扔到空中的人。人们开始看着我们。过了一会儿，她握了握手，走开时说她希望我能按我说的去做。

Now I call that friendly, don’t you?
现在我称之为友好，不是吗？

Yes, I liked her today. A little or much? Don’t know. I liked her and it seems a new feeling to me. Then, in that case, all the rest, all that I thought I thought and all that I felt I felt, all the rest before now, in fact... O, give it up, old chap! Sleep it off!
是的，我今天喜欢她。一点还是很多？不知道。我喜欢她，这对我来说似乎是一种新的感觉。那么，在这种情况下，剩下的一切，所有我以为的我所想的，所有我感觉到的我所感觉到的，所有在此之前的其余的，事实上……哦，放弃吧，老伙计！睡一觉吧！

APRIL 16. Away! Away!
4 月 16 日。出发！离开！

The spell of arms and voices: the white arms of roads, their promise of close embraces and the black arms of tall ships that stand against the moon, their tale of distant nations. They are held out to say: We are alone—come. And the voices say with them: We are your kinsmen. And the air is thick with their company as they call to me, their kinsman, making ready to go, shaking the wings of their exultant and terrible youth.
手臂和声音的魔力：道路的白色手臂，它们对亲密拥抱的承诺，以及反对月亮的高大船只的黑色手臂，它们讲述遥远国家的故事。他们被伸出来说：我们孤身一人——来吧。声音和他们一起说：我们是你们的亲戚。空气中充满了他们的陪伴，他们呼唤着我，他们的亲人，准备出发，摇动着他们欢欣鼓舞而可怕的青春的翅膀。

APRIL 26. Mother is putting my new secondhand clothes in order. She prays now, she says, that I may learn in my own life and away from home and friends what the heart is and what it feels. Amen. So be it. Welcome, O life, I go to encounter for the millionth time the reality of experience and to forge in the smithy of my soul the uncreated conscience of my race.
4 月 26 日，妈妈正在整理我新买的二手衣服。她说，她现在祈祷，希望我能在远离家乡和朋友的地方，在自己的生活中了解什么是心以及它的感受。阿门。就这样吧。欢迎，生命啊，我将第一百万次去面对经验的现实，并在我灵魂的铁匠铺里锻造我种族非受造的良知。

APRIL 27. Old father, old artificer, stand me now and ever in good stead.
4 月 27 日。老父亲，老技师，现在和永远都对我有好处。

Dublin, 1904 Trieste, 1914
都柏林，1904 年 的里雅斯特，1914 年