ATHEIST OVERREACH





ATHEIST OVERREACH

What Atheism Can’t Deliver

Christian Smith

1





3



Oxford University Press is a department of the University of Oxford. It furthers the University’s objective of excellence in research, scholarship, and education by publishing worldwide. Oxford is a registered trade mark of Oxford University Press in the UK and certain other countries.

Published in the United States of America by Oxford University Press

198 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10016, United States of America.

© Oxford University Press 2019

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, without the prior permission in writing of Oxford University Press, or as expressly permitted by law, by license, or under terms agreed with the appropriate reproduction rights organization. Inquiries concerning reproduction outside the scope of the above should be sent to the Rights Department, Oxford University Press, at the address above.

You must not circulate this work in any other form

and you must impose this same condition on any acquirer.

Library of Congress Cataloging- in- Publication Data

Names: Smith, Christian, 1960– author.

Title: Atheist overreach : what atheism can’t deliver / Christian Smith.

Description: New York, NY : Oxford University Press, [2019] | Includes index.

Identifiers: LCCN 2018009553 | ISBN 9780190880927 (hardcover : alk. paper) |

ISBN 9780190880941 (epub)

Subjects: LCSH: Religion and ethics. | Atheism.

Classification: LCC BJ47.S55 2019 | DDC 211/.8—dc23

LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2018009553

1 3 5 7 9 8 6 4 2

Printed by Sheridan Books, Inc., United States of America





CONTENTS



Introduction

1



1. Just How “Good without God” Are Atheists Justified

in Being?

9



2. Does Naturalism Warrant Belief in Universal

Benevolence and Human Rights?

45



3. Why Scientists Playing Amateur Atheology Fail

87



4. Are Humans Naturally Religious?

105



Conclusion

123



Notes

131



Index 155

v



ATHEIST OVERREACH





Introduction



People the world over today are engaged in big struggles over the

viability and importance of religion in personal and public life.

Religions throughout human history have been an important fea-

ture of most cultures and have been practiced by bil ions of people.

But the modern world has set in motion powerful forces of secular-

ization and, as part of that, recurrent waves of activist atheism have

confronted and criticized religion. Most recently in the West, the

so- called New Atheism has pressed hard to discredit belief in God

and undermine religious influences in society.

In much of Europe, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand, re-

ligious beliefs and practices have been declining for decades. The

United States, however, appeared for a long time to be an excep-

tional case to trends of religious decline, seemingly remaining a

bastion of religious vitality. Recent evidence suggests, however,

that Americans are also starting to abandon religious beliefs and

practices.1 The United States seems to be making a shift toward sec-

ularism.2 The arguments of the New Atheists have been among the

influences behind that trend.3

Secularism and atheism are not only Western concerns. The

forces of secularization and the message of atheism reach around

the planet through “carriers” of globalization, such as higher

1

I n t r o d u c t I o n

education, the internet, mass consumer capitalism, and liberal pol-

itics. At the same time, in many parts of the world, religious leaders

and communities of many kinds are pushing back hard against the

pressures of secularism; they want nothing to do with what they

view as a godless, secular way of life. At stake in this global struggle is the long- term character of human civilizations— whether religions

will continue to have a significant place in human life or instead fade

into implausibility and social irrelevance.

Central to this contest over religion and secularity are a set of

open questions, the answers to which have big consequences for

whether religions or secularism have viable long- term futures and

how human societies might best be organized. One is What kind

of moral standards are genuinely secular people justified in upholding?

Do secularists have good reasons to be “good without God?” Or, if

belief in God fades, will that have moral consequences that most

people today would consider harmful? Another important question

is How much can we rely upon the findings of science to know whether or not God exists? Can science deliver certainty about atheists’ claims?

Or are the possibilities of human knowledge about God or gods or

other possible superhuman forces not subject to scientific answers?

A third key question is Are human beings somehow “naturally” reli-

gious? Does something about natural selection, cognitive wiring in human evolution, or some other factor make religious tendencies

an ineradicable feature of human existence? Or could humans as a

species actually leave religion behind?

The outcome of today’s global struggle over religion and sec-

ularity hinges significantly on the answers to these questions.

If people can carry on their personal and social lives with func-

tional standards of morality that produce order, happiness, and

flourishing, if science really can prove atheism, and if humans can

readily leave behind their previously influential religious beliefs

2

I n t r o d u c t I o n

and practices, then humanity’s long- term future may very well look

quite secular. On the other hand if religion actually plays an essen-

tial role in upholding desired moral convictions and behaviors, if

the findings of science actually do not or cannot endorse atheism,

and if it turns out that human beings in fact are “naturally reli-

gious” in some important ways, then we should expect religion to

persist indefinitely into the future, despite the forces of seculariza-

tion and atheism.

So, people concerned about matters of religion, secularism, and

atheism— whatever position they take— should be very interested

in these questions and the best answers to them we can discover.

I am. As a sociologist of religion, culture, and morality, I find the

ideas and arguments involved in these issues to be fascinating and

important. The older I have grown, the less certain about some of

the answers I have become. Stil , after having thought about these

issues long and hard and discussed them with many others, I have

come to some definite conclusions. In this book, I offer my best

answers to these three crucial questions, in hopes of making a con-

tribution to the ongoing public debate.

This book is different from most books about atheism and re-

ligion in that it does not offer an apologetic for either religion or

atheism. Nothing in what follows takes a position on whether

atheism or any religious claims are correct or not. That is not my

concern here. Plenty of other writers have already made such

arguments, and none of that has yet resolved the disagreements.

I take a different approach to these matters. I do not try to show

that atheism as a worldview is fundamentally right or wrong. I focus

instead on evaluating certain key positions and claims that many

atheists assume or make about science, morality, and human nature.

In principle, everything I argue could be correct, and atheism as a

general position could still be true. Nonetheless, if even some of

3

I n t r o d u c t I o n

what I claim here is right, then at the very least a lot of atheists need to step back and reconsider their positions on some crucial issues.

Those positions are not decisive in tel ing us whether atheism is

correct. But they do matter a great deal for how atheism advances

its cause, the kind of claims atheists can make with intellectual hon-

esty, and the sort of new world that atheism can expect to bring into

being if as a movement it succeeds.

My overarching argument in this book is captured by its

title. Atheism, in many of its current expressions, I maintain, is

overreaching. Many contemporary atheist activists are trying to claim too much, attempting to establish positions that are unwarranted,

going overboard in confidence and enthusiasm in prosecuting their

positions. Again, that does not in and of itself say that atheists are

right or wrong. I merely contend that— whatever the truth status

of atheism— many of its current advocates are overextending

themselves in certain important assumptions, arguments, and

conclusions. For atheists, who claim to be advocates of stern reason,

realism, and intellectual honesty, that is a big problem, a “performa-

tive contradiction.” To live up to their own standards, if I am correct, these atheists will need to pull back from their overreaching. And

doing so will have significant implications for the larger, global

struggle over religion and secularism.

Rather than weighing in on one side or another of this debate,

I want in this book to help the argument move forward in a more

intellectually clear, honest, and fair way. It seems to me that if the

religion- versus- secularism struggle is going to proceed in an open

and fruitful a manner, all parties will need to be carefully heard,

appraised, and, where necessary, criticized. I attempt that here on

certain issues important to atheism. I do not pretend to accomplish

it comprehensively. No single book could do that. My contribution

is more modest.

4

I n t r o d u c t I o n

How so? For one thing, this book scrutinizes only the atheist

side of the debate. A similar critical exercise could also well be

conducted on some religious apologists, as indeed more than a

few atheist critics have already done. This book also only engages

the atheist authors most relevant to the concerns I raise. Not many

of my arguments engage the most famous of the New Atheists—

Richard Dawkins, Christopher Hitchens, Daniel Dennett, and Sam

Harris, who tend to attract most of the attention and controversy.

Instead I take on a broader swath of somewhat lesser known atheist

writers.4 I think it enhances the debate to look beyond “the usual

suspects.” Furthermore, I address only a limited set of concerns—

namely, the three key questions about morality, science, and human

religiousness— setting aside a host of other potentially relevant

questions and criticisms. I have no interest in marshaling an ency-

clopedic critique of atheism. I focus instead on what strike me as

crucial weak spots in the arguments of many atheists today.

This book can be read as a collection of essays rather than a single,

progressively unfolding argument, meaning that each chapter can

be read on its own and in any order, depending on one’s interest.5

Altogether, however, they emphasize the same overarching theme

of atheists’ overreach. The four chapters of this book proceed as follows. The first engages the important question of whether human

beings have good reason to be morally “good without God,” as most

atheists today claim we do. In that exploration I engage the works

of a broad sample of contemporary atheist moralists who insist that

we humans not only can be but also have good reasons to be morally upright without God. I argue that the atheist moralists I examine

are not so much flat wrong as simply grossly overreaching in their

claims. I conclude that, in all intellectual honesty, people inhabiting

an atheist universe do seem to have good reasons to be moderately

“good,” to behave morally in a provisional and limited sense; but

5

I n t r o d u c t I o n

they do not have good reasons to live up to the high standards of

moral goodness demanded by the inclusive, universal humanism

that many atheist moralists advocate.

The second chapter follows on the same theme by taking a

different angle on a related question. It examines in more expansive

terms the question whether people inhabiting a naturalistic universe

(that is, one in which only the energy and matter of nature exist,

nothing supernatural) are reasonably justified in demanding moral

commitments to the kind of universal benevolence and human

rights that most atheists, as well as religious believers, today wish

to champion and defend. I argue that naturalism does not seem to

justify such demands. Naturalism may well justify many impor-

tant substantive moral responsibilities but not, as far as I can see,

a commitment to honor universal benevolence and human rights.

The third chapter shifts focus to the question of what the

findings of modern science can and cannot tell us about the exist-

ence of God. Here we deal not with ethics (the focus of the first two

chapters) but instead with epistemology— that is, what we humans

can properly know. Many contemporary atheist writers claim that

the findings of science establish the fact that God does not exist.

This chapter contests that claim, showing that— whether God

exists or not— no such conclusion can be properly drawn from the

discoveries of science. I offer some crucial distinctions that I hope

help to clarify the much- debated and often misunderstood relation-

ship between science and religion.

The fourth and final chapter shifts the focus to the question of

whether or not human beings are in any significant way “naturally

religious,” as some religious apologists say. The relevance of this

question is clear. If this claim is erroneous and is perhaps a mere

self- serving ideology, then the activist atheist agenda for the future

faces much better chances of success. If religion in human minds

6

I n t r o d u c t I o n

and societies is not grounded in stubborn human nature, it is in-

stead a mere contingency or dispensable phase of human history.

If on the other hand humans possess some natural tendencies to

be religious, then the (at least militant) atheist goal of ridding the

world of religion faces a serious uphill battle and may be doomed

to failure. I suggest in this chapter that humans are indeed naturally

religious, when the meaning of “naturally” is correctly specified, but

as a matter of natural capacities and tendencies, not in any deter-

ministic way. I then spell out for atheism the implications of such an

understanding of natural human religiousness.

I attempt in this book to avoid a strident, partisan tone, even if

at times I am polemical to make a point. My purpose here, again, is

not to help one side or another of this larger debate to “win”. I seek

instead to engage the debate differently, proceeding in the tentative

faith that, through the clash of strong rival arguments and replies,

weak arguments will falter in the end and good arguments will

prevail. To encourage that kind of intellectual advance— gained

through agonistic conflict among rival claimants— this book seeks

to sharpen the intellectual clarity, honesty, and precision of the

arguments and claims in the ongoing debate itself. I hope that, in

the larger process, my criticisms will help lead to greater insight and

perhaps, dare I say, enlightenment.

Finally, a word about my intended audience. I do not advance

my arguments here as an original contribution to the detailed and

more sophisticated debates of professional philosophers in the

fields of philosophy of religion, ethics, science, and human rights.

My explorations are too basic and incomplete for that audience. I do

hope philosophers read this book, and I have included scholarly

notes that speak to some of their concerns. But I also intend this book

to be an accessible invitation to the educated reading public and to

undergraduate college students to join or to continue participating

7

I n t r o d u c t I o n

in wel - informed conversations about the relative merits of religious

and nonreligious conceptions of morality, science, and humanity.

The question of atheist overreach involves matters too broadly

important to be left only to professional philosophers to analyze

in scholarly publications. We must take seriously the best of what

philosophers argue.6 But many nonprofessionals often need on-

ramps to access and begin to get up to speed on issues addressed in

more complex and specialized academic debates. I intend this book

as one such on- ramp.

8





Chapter 1

Just How “Good without God”

Are Atheists Justified in Being?



Suppose that tomorrow everyone on earth woke up and decided that

no God, gods, or superhuman powers or forces existed. Everyone

became an atheist. What kind of moral commitments would hu-

manity then rationally be justified affirming, promoting, and living?

This chapter examines the question— much debated of late— of

whether humans can be “good without God.” I focus on arguments

advanced by activist atheists who answer this question in the affirm-

ative, claiming that a robust, universal, humanistic ethic of care and

respect for the rights and wel - being of all other human beings can

be derived rationally from atheism. I evaluate these arguments by

conducting a close reading of a body of texts addressing the matter.

To preview, I will argue the following.

First, of course atheists can be good despite not believing in God.

I witness this empirical fact around me and suspect that most eve-

ryone else does too. When asked if he believed in infant baptism,

Mark Twain once replied, “Believe in it? Hel , I’ve seen it!” On the

simple empirical question of whether atheists can be good, my answer is the same.1

9

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

However, we need to distinguish between the practical fact of

many atheists’ evident capacity for “being good” and the philosoph-

ical question of what kinds of goodness atheism actually rationally

warrants. Just because someone can and does act “good” does not mean they necessarily have good reasons to do so.2 And if they do

not have compel ing reasons, perhaps they or their children will

eventually wise up and stop acting so good.

Third, I will say that we need to disaggregate monolithic and

il - defined notions of what “good” is— that is, what we mean when

using the adjective “good”— by identifying and describing distinct

versions of what “being good” might entail. Most arguments in

this debate proceed by assuming an implicit good- bad binary, as if

people’s lives are either simply “good” or “bad,” which is crude and

obfuscating. We need to work out more helpful distinctions to make

better sense of the issues. I will distinguish what I will call “modest”

or “moderate” expectations of goodness that are fairly demanding

from “high” or “strong” expectations that are universalistic and very

demanding.

I will conclude that atheists are rationally justified in living

according to a certain conception of moral standards that we can

rightly call “good,” but that this standard ought to be ethically

modest, setting no more than a moderately high bar of moral expec-

tations on human behavior. And this modest standard of morality

falls far short of the kind of robust, universal, humanistic morality

that most atheist activists have in mind today when they insist that

we can be “good without God.”

I went into this inquiry with a genuinely open mind, interested to

see if atheists really could make a solid case for the rational justification for a strong morality. I read nearly all the relevant recent works

directed at (mostly) popular audiences that I could get my hands

on, written both by scholars and atheist activists (my intention is

10

h o w “G o o d w I t h o u t G o d ” A r e At h e I s t s J u s t I f I e d I n B e I n G ?

to engage more accessible works designed to influence mainstream

culture, rather than to drill down into the technical literature on the

topic in academic philosophy journals). My analysis here focuses

on a close reading of four particular works. They are Philip Kitcher,

Life after Faith (along with Kitcher’s more in- depth companion

book The Ethical Project); Sam Harris, The Moral Landscape; Greg Epstein, Good without God; and Lex Bayer and John Figdor, Atheist Mind, Humanist Heart.3 These books’ authors include two academic scholars (Kitcher is a philosopher and Harris a neuroscientist), two

humanist chaplains at Ivy League universities (Epstein and Figdor),

and a leader of an atheist nonprofit (Bayer). In addition, I read and

will sometimes refer to related works, such as Frans de Waal, The

Bonobo and the Atheist, Phil Zuckerman, Living the Secular Life, Katherine Ozment, Grace without God, Walter Sinnott- Armstrong,

Morality without God? , Kai Nielsen, Ethics without God, and Ronald Lindsay, The Necessity of Secularism.4 These books offer a representative sampling of what today are presented in popular culture as

the best arguments for being “good without God.” I will refer to the

authors as “atheist moralists.”

Two last preliminary points. First, this chapter should not be

construed as a positive defense of religion or religious ethics. That

is not my purpose. I am concerned here only with evaluating the re-

cent atheists’ claim that humanity can be “good without God.” I do

not here take on any burden of offering a constructive alternative to

atheist ethics.

Second, this chapter emphasizes the idea of having good reasons

for moral behavior. I must clarify why I think that matters. I do not

think that good reasons directly determine people’s moral actions.

Humans are not simple rationalists who follow the best ideas.

People’s behavior is influenced by many, often conflicting reasons,

forces, and emotions. Other influences can override the genuinely

11

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

good reasons people have to act a certain way. However, having

good reasons for moral commitments still matters, for at least three

reasons. First, even if having a good reason for it does not guar-

antee moral behavior, most people are more likely to behave in

ways for which they believe they have good reasons than in ways for

which they lack them. Unjustified cultural norms can propel costly

behaviors, but not indefinitely; eventually people begin to question

them and, lacking a good justification, may adjust the moral norms.

Second, when good reasons are culturally shared, they often become

institutionalized. At issue here is not merely isolated moral actors, but institutional practices, expectations, and habits that shape behaviors

long- term and contextually. Over the long run, institutionalized cul-

tural and moral norms rarely rise above the best ideas and reasons

that leaders can articulate and people can believe. If we want good

institutions that last, we need good reasons explaining them. Third,

rationality and intellectual honesty require that we evaluate impor-

tant claims; and if we cannot find good reasons to justify them, then

on philosophical grounds the claims must be judged lacking.

But what are “good reasons?” When it comes to justifying poten-

tially costly moral behaviors for real human beings as we actually are,

to have good reasons requires two parts: a warranting explanation

and a justifying motivation. The first aspect of having a good reason

for moral action is understanding the rationale for such action (the

warranting explanation). The second aspect is understanding why

one actually should care about the elements of the explanation (the motivation) enough to act upon it, especially when it is costly. It is

possible to possess a logical explanation for “being good” that lacks

a sufficient motivating justification to care about and act upon it

(just as it is possible to be motivated to “be good” when one actually has no rational explanatory warrant for doing so).5 By my account,

then, a good reason for being “good without God” must entail both

12

h o w “G o o d w I t h o u t G o d ” A r e At h e I s t s J u s t I f I e d I n B e I n G ?

an explanation and a motivation for why people should be so. On

this point I part ways with rationalist Kantian ethics, which insists

that warranting explanations always contain their own justifying

motivations, so that all any person needs is a reasoned account for

why an action is right or wrong, and that ought automatically to

motivate any rational person to conform to her duty of obeying the

moral law. I believe Kantians are misguided, and I maintain that a

truly good reason for moral actions requires both a warranting ex-

planation and a motivational justification.6



how Good wIthout God ouGht

we to Be?

So, what kind of morally good living7 do our moralists say atheism

can generate and sustain, and how and why so? None of these

authors are highly systematic or clear about exactly what “good”

is. A few are muddled and unclear. Sometimes they describe moral

goodness with vague phrases like “behaving ethically,” our “deepest

values,” and helping others to “be more of a person.”8 But let us con-

centrate on the clearest of what they write.

These atheist moralists begin their arguments by setting a

fairly low bar for human goodness, focusing first on the kind of

basic transactional behaviors that sociobiologists and evolutionary

psychologists emphasize—

namely, cooperation, reciprocity,

fairness, restraint on aggression, kin altruism, conflict reduction,

and earned reputations of trustworthiness.9 Those basic goods are

not very morally demanding. So the claims escalate.

Atheism, we continue to read, justifies much stronger moral

goods. These include kindness, compassion, refraining from

hurting others, respecting and providing aid for others, solidarity,

13

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

taking responsibility, commitment to the truth, “prosocial feeling,”

and concern for the common good.10 These are not simply ways to

make self- interested social exchanges more efficient and pleasant.

They demand genuinely caring about at least some other people and

expending oneself for them. In fact, many of these authors say that

their ethical approach can be summarized by the Golden Rule: “Do

unto others as you would have them do unto you.”11

These atheist moralists, however, do not settle for these argu-

ably more realistic ethical aspirations and obligations. They push up

the moral stakes to more elevated heights, calling for an egalitarian

and universalistic humanism that requires honoring the dignity and

rights of all human persons everywhere. According to Philip Kitcher,

for example, atheism justifies a morality that compels everyone to

work toward “remedying or ameliorating the plight of mil ions, even

bil ions,” in order to provide all humans with “the opportunity for a

worthwhile life.”12 Atheism, he says, compels us to become “respon-

sive to the desires of the entire human population” and so to afford

the “provision of equal opportunities for worthwhile lives for all”

and the redistribution of “basic resources for the poor” so that “the

necessities of life can be stably maintained for all.” These, he writes, must include “quality education and medical care . . . distributed to

all” in order to realize social equality. This is not mere social cooperation. It sets a very high moral standard indeed, requiring real sacri-

fice by the haves for the benefit of the have- nots.

Greg Epstein says that atheism justifies our leading “ethical lives

of personal fulfillment that aspire to the greater good of humanity,”

“treating each person as having an inherent worth and dignity” and

“improving society . . . and developing global community.” This wil

require that we “minimize inequalities of circumstances . . . and

. . . support a just distribution of natural resources”; honor di-

versity, respect, human rights, civil liberties, open participation

14

h o w “G o o d w I t h o u t G o d ” A r e At h e I s t s J u s t I f I e d I n B e I n G ?

in the democratic process; and fulfill a “planetary duty to protect

nature’s integrity, diversity, and beauty in a secure, sustainable

manner.” Everyone, he says, will have to learn to practice “volun-

tary simplicity” and to promote global sustainability requiring the

constraint of consumption.13

Sam Harris, for his part, says that being good without God

involves promoting “happiness for the greatest number of people”

and “maximiz[ing] personal and collective wel - being” for all of hu-

manity.14 And Beyer and Figdor write that atheism obliges people to

create “the greatest life- happiness for [other] people in society.”15 In short, our contemporary atheist moralists assure us that we humans

still can and must aspire to a highly demanding version of a univer-

salistic, egalitarian, and inclusive humanism.16



whY Be Good wIthout God?

What kind of moral reasoning in the absence of the divine could

give rise to such lofty moral commitments? Each author spel s out

a somewhat different rationale for being so very good without God.

All of their arguments, however, rely on a combination of pragmatic

functionalism, enlightened self- interest, and social- contract rea-

soning. “Pragmatic functionalism” here means appealing to the pre-

dictable practical results that certain human norms and behaviors

tend to generate in real life, focusing on how things actually tend to

work when people interact in different ways (for example, with trust

and cooperation instead of suspicion and hostility).17 Arguments

appeal to enlightened self- interest when they observe that people

are generally able to gain greater rewards in the long run by behaving

nicely than by behaving selfishly. Social- contract reasoning suggests

that people do or should agree to establish and enforce shared

15

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

norms of behavior that, if upheld, will improve their collective wel -

being. These authors supplement these reasons with various appeals

to Adam Smith’s writings about natural human moral “sentiments,”

Kantian rational universalizing,18 Benthamite utilitarianism, the

reproductive- fitness value of kinship selection and reciprocal al-

truism, and explorations of game- theory experiments, such as the

prisoner’s dilemma and the philosopher’s so- called trolley problem.

Sam Harris’s argument for being good is simple. All humans

at all times and everywhere, he says, want to enjoy lives free from

suffering, anxiety, and want. All people desire health, safety, secu-

rity, pleasure, and prosperity. We all want to live good lives that go

wel . The one universal human motivation, in short, is to maximize

our wel - being. We can also learn through experience and, increas-

ingly, science how to improve human life. And one thing we learn,

he says, is that life is vastly improved when people practice moral

goods, such as reciprocity, kindness, respect, fairness, self- restraint, and compassion for others. Therefore, it is in our individual and

collective self- interest to be good to each other. No religious ra-

tionale is needed— only pragmatic social learning, enlightened

self- interest, and rational social agreements, which, Harris writes,

will produce a “net positive contribution to wel - being,” a “compas-

sionate view of our common humanity,” and a promotion of “the

public good.”19

According to Kitcher, as humans evolved, our hunting-

gathering ancestors struggled with social conflicts over the inequi-

table distributions of tasks and resources when some of the more

selfish of them failed to act altruistically and did not share with

others. Social life in such small bands was fragile, so survival re-

quired that such social conflicts be resolved. The social structures

of hunting- gathering tribes were highly egalitarian, Kitcher writes,

so resolutions were worked out by everyone together, collectively,

16

h o w “G o o d w I t h o u t G o d ” A r e At h e I s t s J u s t I f I e d I n B e I n G ?

around the campfire, in ways that benefited everyone. An evolved

capacity for psychological altruism expressed itself in estab-

lished social norms of equal cooperation and sharing— resulting

in functional cultures of fraternity, social solidarity, and altruism.

Humans eventually began to internalize these norms and so feel

guilty when they violated them. As civilizations developed, gods

and religion were invented to justify and enforce these codes.

Even if in today’s modern world we realize no gods exist, we can

and must nevertheless embrace strong norms of moral goodness,

Kitcher says. That is partly because it is simply our human inher-

itance and nature, and partly because moral norms enable us to

overcome selfish temptations and practice the altruism needed to

avoid social conflict and promote social harmony.

Bayer and Figdor’s approach is simpler. In reality, they say, no

moral truths or rules or laws in nature or in objective reality exist.

Whatever moral beliefs we have are pure human inventions. They

even write: “there’s no absolute moral code that dictates that murder

is unethical.”20 Nonetheless, they observe, everyone does want to

be happy. A simple fact of life is that all people both do and should

“behave in ways that we think optimize our life happiness.” There

are many ways to be happy, both good and bad. Morality, then, is a

matter of choosing to align one’s own happiness with that of others.

What it means to be moral, Bayer and Figdor stipulate, is to decide to make one’s own happiness contingent upon the happiness of others.

“A person can be said to act in a moral manner,” as they define the

term, “if he or she derives a great deal of self- happiness from other

people’s happiness.” This view should motivate “balancing what you

want against what’s best for everyone,” “identification with others,”

finding “happiness in observing the happiness of others,” “wanting

what’s good for” others, choosing “to help others find happiness,”

and behaving ethically and supporting an ethical society.

17

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

Finally, Epstein similarly assumes that humans only have their

own needs and interests to work with, nothing else. “Our morality,”

he says, “is based on human needs and social contracts.”21 And our

ultimate human need or interest is to flourish. Ethics tell us how to

live in ways that will promote flourishing. We also know that we

value our own lives. Therefore, Epstein says, “logic commits us to

universalize from there” to overcome selfishness and live in ways to

respect the dignity of all people. “The dignity of mutual concern and

connection and of self- fulfillment through service to humanity’s

highest ideals is more than enough reason to be good without God,”

he writes.22

These arguments contain some solid and admirable features23—

but also a host of problems, including dubious premises, slippages

of reasoning, and ignored counterclaims, which I could elaborate if

necessary. For present purposes, I will limit myself to examining just

a few crucial problems in these arguments.



the ProBLeM of unJustIfIed

eGALItArIAn unIversALIsM

The first problem for these atheistic moralists is that none of them

provides a convincing reason— sometimes any reason— for the universal scope of humans’ asserted obligations to promote the good of all other human beings. It is one thing for people to be good to those

who are proximate and similar to them. It is quite another to de-

mand that every person is morally obliged to advance the wel - being

of every other human on earth. A careful reading of our moralists

reveals good reasons why atheists should be motivated to be good to

a limited set of people who matter to them. But they do not provide good reasons to be good to everyone.

18

h o w “G o o d w I t h o u t G o d ” A r e At h e I s t s J u s t I f I e d I n B e I n G ?

That these atheist moralists do champion universal, egalitarian,

and inclusive moral standards is clear. Philip Kitcher is the most in-

sistent among them. He writes that “a world counts as good to the

extent actualizing it would lead us toward Utopia,” that is, an “imag-

inary social state” in which “each member of the human population has a serious chance of living a good life” and where “the chances of

living such lives are equal across the population.”24 “Almost all human beings,” he says, “can advance from a state in which the good life is

understood in terms of the satisfaction of basic needs . . . to a con-

dition in which a richer conception of the good life makes sense for

them.” “My secular ideal,” he thus writes, “commits itself to making

available to all people the human possibilities proliferated by the ethical project.”25

Similarly, Epstein writes: “We [humanists] are committed to

treating each person as having inherent worth and dignity.” Everyone must make “a decision together— not just as a family, clan, tribe,

city, nation, or bloc of nations, but as the human species. We must decide, all of us together, to survive.” Epstein endorses the Humanist Manifesto III of 2003, which encourages all to “aspire to the greater

good of humanity” and “ground values in human welfare . . . ex-

tended to the global” level, in the “hope of attaining peace, justice,

and opportunity for all,” so that “as many as possible can enjoy a good life.”26 Though with less insistence than Kitcher and Epstein, Sam

Harris too aspires to an inclusive universalism: “I want,” he declares,

“to live in a society that maximizes the possibility of human wel -

being generally,” and we need to “succeed in building a global civilization based on shared values.”27

Among these atheist moralists, only Bayer and Figdor equivo-

cate about universalism. They hedge their language about how far

our goodness ought to extend, in part by using ambiguous phrases,

such as “our own happiness and . . . the happiness of others” (which

19

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

and how many others?), “our life- happiness” (“ours” individu-

ally or collectively?), and “the greatest life happiness for people

in society” (which people and which society?).28 In a chapter

(claiming to be) about “how inclusive a society should be,” they

conclude rather uncertainly that “we benefit from living in and

supporting an ethical society. . . . Ethical societies benefit everyone because it is easier to live a happier life when you are surrounded

by other people who value cooperation and take pleasure in your

happiness.” Unclear here is who counts as “we” and whether “so-

ciety” means only that of a region or nation or more. (Moreover,

the claim is only about conditional benefits to cooperators, not

morally binding obligations to others.) Beyer and Figdor also ex-

plicitly concede naturalistic evolution’s limitations on egalitarian

universalism:

Research as far back as the work of Charles Darwin has shown

that we are generally motivated to care more strongly for

our families and our close social groups. The circle of caring

then radiates outward to include people in our surrounding

communities, states, and countries [though with limits]. . . .

Why don’t we treat everyone exactly the same? It’s simple: we

invest more energy in relationships that have a higher likelihood

of benefiting us. . . . Treating everyone exactly equally is not how

we are incentivized to behave. . . . This isn’t a flaw but an evolved

feature of the human mind. . . . [Our closer relationships mor-

ally] require us to treat the other person in the relationship . . . differently from strangers.

So two of these atheist moralists are strong and inclusive moral

universalists (Kitcher and Epstein), one appears to be or at least

does not deny that approach (Harris), and the fourth pair is

20

h o w “G o o d w I t h o u t G o d ” A r e At h e I s t s J u s t I f I e d I n B e I n G ?

more circumspect.29 What arguments, then, do the two strong

universalists provide to justify their positions?

Kitcher’s argument runs like this: if you want to live a good life, to enjoy your own well- being (which you do), then you should

realize that other people also want to live good lives and enjoy well- being. The human ethical project has always been about

enhancing personal and social well- being. The more humans

can live good lives, the better. Therefore, morality compels each

person to commit to providing the conditions of well- being to

every other person. To quote him: “almost all human beings want

a future in which the younger members of their societies . . . can

grow healthily. . . . [But] today the actions of people in some areas

of the world [pollution, global warming] interfere with the re-

alization of such desires.” Therefore, “continuation of the eth-

ical project should include an attempt to frame a conception of

the common good responsive to the desires of the entire human

population. . . . We urgently need a conception of the good that considers the desires of all people. . . . Where there are serious consequences for distant others, there must be an attempt to respond to them.”30

Epstein’s justification of moral universalism consists of four

sentences referring to (without footnoting) the philosopher

Rebecca Goldstein’s reference to the philosopher Thomas Nagel,

who argues in his book The Possibility of Altruism that “logic commits us to universalize . . . certain natural attitudes that already commit

us to valuing our own lives.” That is, we can reason that “we all know

for ourselves that there is a right or wrong . . . so from there only

radical selfishness could prevent us from understanding that these

concepts are universal.” (Here we appear to return to the Kantian

view of having a “good reason” for acting morally, noted above and

discussed in note 6.) And, Epstein says, since selfishness leads to

21

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

unhappiness (which shifts back to a consequentialist ethics), that is

not an option. Hence universalism. “Ethics really isn’t that compli-

cated,” Epstein concludes.31

Neither Kitcher’s nor Epstein’s arguments for universalism is

remotely persuasive. They may “convince” people who, for other

(good or bad) reasons, already want to believe in inclusive moral universalism without thinking too hard about it. But convincing

people who are already or mostly convinced is not the challenge.

The challenge is to convince reasonable skeptics. So let us consider

the position of a reasonable skeptic whose starting point is some-

thing like this: “I can see why, even without God, and understanding

moral norms to be mere human inventions, I should be motivated

to behave ethically and be good to the people around me who could

affect my wel - being. Beyond them, however, I see no compel ing

obligation to promote the wel - being of other people who are ir-

relevant for all practical purposes to my own life, happiness, and

welfare.”

What can Kitcher and Epstein say to such a skeptic? Kitcher

would reply: “but don’t you see that those other distant people

have the same aspirations and desires as you do? What you want

for yourself they deserve equally too.” I imagine the skeptic would

ask: “why should I care about their aspirations and desires? Dealing

with my own life is hard enough. Charity begins at home. I cannot

be responsible for what everybody deserves. They and their people

can take care of themselves.” Kitcher answers: “but that is unfair!

They also belong to our common humanity, as we benefit together

from following moral norms. You have an obligation to help them

and every other person.” To which the skeptic replies: “says who?

Anyway, life isn’t fair— get used to it. If morality only exists to ben-

efit us, then I will be moral with people I wish to benefit and who

might benefit me.”

22

h o w “G o o d w I t h o u t G o d ” A r e At h e I s t s J u s t I f I e d I n B e I n G ?

What can Kitcher say? “You are a bad and selfish man”? No, that

is desperate name- calling. What Kitcher needs but does not possess

is a compel ing argument, good reasons that could actually per-

suade the reasonable skeptic to be motivated to care about all other people. Kitcher does not have such reasons because his morally

demanding inclusive and egalitarian universalism does not follow

from his atheist, naturalist, functionalist premises. There remains a

disconnect; there is no logical link between them. The reasonable

skeptic sees that. Kitcher’s metaphysics and moral ontology prob-

ably do justify the moral approach taken by the reasonable skeptic,

but they do not justify the obligations Kitcher himself wishes to lay

upon a secular society.32

If Kitcher’s argument does not succeed, Epstein’s fails mis-

erably. His actually is not even an argument; instead it is a place-

holder that dodges the problem. “Trust me,” Epstein essentially

says; “Goldstein and Nagel are really good philosophers and they

have got this covered— logic forces us to universalize our own expe-

rience. It’s really not complicated.” Anyone who doubts, he suggests,

is guilty of “radical selfishness” (more name- calling)— and need-

lessly overcomplicating ethics. Epstein’s brevity and dismissiveness

suggest either that he does not grasp the gravity of the issue at stake

or that he intuitively senses the weakness of his position and ner-

vously wishes quickly to change the subject. He has made not a dent

in the position of the reasonable skeptic who accepts the value of

socially bounded moral commitments and behaviors but sees no

reason for accepting demanding, egalitarian, universal obligations.33

Universally inclusive systems of moral obligations are extremely

tall orders that are very difficult if not impossible to fil . They require us to respect the (alleged) “dignity” of all people, not just nice and

good people but also the most damaging, costly, ungrateful, and ir-

redeemable people on the planet.34 They expect us to identify and

23

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

empathize with the needs and sufferings of every person, even those

on the other side of the earth whose cultures are alien to ours. And

we are to devote to them not merely passing sympathetic feelings

but understanding, material aid, and resources. When we follow

the Golden Rule, the “others” whom we “do unto” as we want done

to ourselves are not only the friends and strangers with whom we

interact, but everyone out there, from every social class, race, eth-

nicity, religion, political persuasion, country, and continent. Being

good also requires, at least for Kitcher, more than sending donations

to faraway victims of earthquakes, tsunamis, epidemics, and other

disasters. It means the world’s privileged proactively redistributing

material resources and social services to ensure that everyone on the

planet possesses an equal opportunity for wel - being.

If human beings are to be asked to do these things, they wil ,

given the demands involved, have to hear really strong and persuasive reasons clearly justifying them, involving both reasoned explanations and compel ing motivations for moral living.35 Yet these atheist

moralists have none to offer that a reasonable skeptic cannot easily

shrug off. They simply make assertions as if an inclusive, egalitarian

universalism is the obvious next step in shared human progress, in

“service to our highest ideals,” the “uncomplicated” and inexorable

outcome of the dutiful exercise of Kantian practical reason. But this

is just wishful thinking, an evasion of reason.36

What ought we to conclude on this point about being “good

without God?” I think that atheists are rationally justified in being

morally good, if that means a modest goodness focused prima-

rily on people who might affect them and with a view to practical

consequences in terms of “enlightened self- interest.” “Good,” how-

ever, has no good reason to involve universal moral obligations.

Atheists who wish to promote being “good without God,” if they

are intellectually honest, need to scale back their ambitions and

24

h o w “G o o d w I t h o u t G o d ” A r e At h e I s t s J u s t I f I e d I n B e I n G ?

propose something more defensible, forthright, and realistic

than what most of these moralists seem to want. A more modest

goodness may or may not suffice for functional human societies and

a happy life, but— unless these atheist moralists have so far missed

a big reason yet to be unveiled— that is all it seems atheism can ra-

tionally support.



the ProBLeM of the “sensIBLe KnAve”

The second problem in the arguments of these atheistic moralists

is that none of them successfully explains why rational persons in

an atheistic universe should uphold a culture’s moral norms all of the time. Why not be good when it serves one’s enlightened self-interest but strategically choose to break a moral norm at opportune moments, when violation has a nice payoff and there is little chance

of being caught?

You may be familiar with the history of this question. It is known

as “Glaucon’s challenge” to Socrates, recorded in Plato’s Republic, and it is the problem of David Hume’s “sensible knave,” addressed in

his Enquiry Concerning the Principles of Morals. (Today we might call Hume’s sensible knave a “shrewd opportunist.”) Neither Socrates nor

Hume successfully resolved this problem,37 and neither do today’s

atheist moralists. In fact, only one of the latter even confronts the

challenge directly. The others either raise the question briefly and

brush it aside, as if it is trivial; or else float some version of Socrates and Hume’s (unsuccessful) answers and then hurriedly move on. In

the end, Glaucon’s challenge and Hume’s “sensible knave” continue

to stare all of their claims in the face, waiting for a more convincing

answer. One will not be forthcoming, because there is no more con-

vincing answer to bring forward.

25

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

Recall our atheistic situation. There is no objective, external

source of moral order, such as God or a natural law. Humans in-

vent morality through learning and social contract to make society

function better— to benefit themselves. People are motivated to

follow their culture’s moral norms because breaking them will lead

to punishment in the short run and unhappiness and reduced wel -

being in the longer run. This kind of enlightened self- interest should

produce societies of people who are morally good without God.

But the fact is that, if this is indeed our situation, there is no

good reason for perceptive and intel igent persons not to act as

Hume’s sensible knave, as shrewd opportunists, if they so desire. In

fact, the more intel igent such persons are, the more they will want

other people to follow all of the moral codes consistently, while they themselves opt to violate them when it is in their enlightened self-interest to do so. Let everyone else, who is not so clever, do the work

of upholding the moral norms. To use the economist’s language,

many perceptive people in an atheist universe will be tempted on

occasion to “free ride”— that is, let others pay the full fare for the

collective benefits of moral order, while they themselves occasion-

ally jump the turnstile while nobody is looking and ride for free.38

To these reasonable arguments these atheist moralists have no good

reply.39 Thus, we cannot avoid concluding that “the imperfect coin-

cidence of morality and self- interest implies that immorality need

not always be irrational.”40

Let us return to the details of the argument. The traditional reply

to Glaucon’s challenge and the sensible knave is to argue that im-

moral behavior inevitably inflicts psychological damage on the im-

moral one, disturbing his mental tranquility and generating anxiety

about being caught. So the mere desire to enjoy peace of mind and

satisfaction with one’s own moral integrity should suffice to mo-

tivate everyone (except already morally corrupt reprobates) to be

26

h o w “G o o d w I t h o u t G o d ” A r e At h e I s t s J u s t I f I e d I n B e I n G ?

consistently morally good and never to “free ride.”41 How do these

atheist moralists reply?

Only one of them, Philip Kitcher, addresses the problem di-

rectly. And in the end he admits to having no answer against the sen-

sible knave.42 Kitcher begins with the traditional answer, saying we

should tell the sensible knave that “he will be disturbed and worried,

that he will forfeit that tranquility of mind that good conscience

bestows,” and that he will also not actually achieve his goals.43 But,

Kitcher acknowledges, “in many instances, these responses will be

ineffective.” He then suggests tel ing the knave that his ability to take advantage of the moral system depends unfairly upon hard- won

inherited moral systems and “the obedient docility of [his] fellows”

upholding them. Kitcher knows, however, that the knave will reply

that “this is all past history” and that “he is grateful so many of his

predecessors went along with the codes” of morality so that “he can

take advantage of that fact and pursue his egoistic goals.” Kitcher

(rightly) admits that a Kantian appeal to our duty to be consistent

with rational principles is “powerless to prevent the [knave’s] shrug.

Who should care?” In the end, he admits that the “knave cannot

be silenced” and that his own moral argument can do little more

than “offer a diagnosis of what [knave] is doing”— namely, “the

knavish incoherence” is taking advantage of the moral inheritance

of humanity “that sustains human cooperation” and the good be-

havior of others. Quite so. Stil , Kitcher concludes that the knave

“shrugs his shoulders, unmoved by the rhetoric.” In a last effort at

self- defense, Kitcher claims that no other available moral system is

able to answer the knave any better than he can. He then moves on

to another topic.

As a moral philosopher, Kitcher is professionally the most

qualified among these atheist moralists to solve this problem. Yet

by his own admission he cannot provide a satisfactory reason why

27

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

sensible knaves should not carefully free ride morally at the expense

of others who are more cooperative and gullible. And if Kitcher

cannot, there is no chance that Epstein, Harris, or the others can.

And in fact they don’t.

Imagine that you own a computer firm whose work involves

protecting highly sensitive information. Imagine that you are

approached by a salesperson offering a new data security program

that provides full security against honest computer users; the only

problem, this salesperson admits, is that the program also unfortu-

nately has an irreparable systemic security hole that is vulnerable to

being breached and exploited by malicious hackers. Do you want to

buy this program? You should not. For you do not need to protect

your sensitive data against honest users, but malicious hackers. This

by analogy is the problem besetting the “good without God” moral

systems that Kitcher and his fellow moralists are sel ing. They may

work properly among wel - intentioned people who uphold moral

norms, but they are systematically and irremediably vulnerable to

violation by sensible knaves.

Worse: the more sensible the knaves, the more vulnerable the

moral systems are; and the more knaves exist who understand these

systems’ vulnerabilities, the more often they will be breached and

people will not be good. Further, since these moral systems are

“public goods,” like subway systems, which remain functional only

insofar as they are widely supported by “full- fare- paying riders,”

they are also vulnerable to delegitimation and possibly breakdown

when a critical mass of sensible knaves behave in exploitive ways

that the proponents of the moral systems cannot prevent with con-

vincing reasons. And those I take to be debilitating problems for any

“good without God” moral system.

Also note this ironic difficulty that the problem of sensible

knaves generates for atheist moralists: it commends on pragmatic

28

h o w “G o o d w I t h o u t G o d ” A r e At h e I s t s J u s t I f I e d I n B e I n G ?

functional grounds popular ignorance instead of enlightenment

about the facts of morality. For any enlightened atheist, preferring

ignorance over illumination of the truth is perverse. Yet if atheism

is correct, human practices of ethics will function more effectively if

the general public remains in obfuscated darkness about morality’s

mere human origins and sheer functional purposes. People who

believe that their moral norms reflect objective standards of moral

truth— what philosophers call “moral facts”— will be more likely

to uphold them than people who see that they are mere human

constructions that evolved to reduce social conflicts and enhance

general human wel - being. The Great and Terrible Oz of morality, so

to speak, was only revered and obeyed when the denizens of Oz paid

“no attention to that man behind the curtain.” When he is revealed

to the masses as just a humbug man with a hot- air balloon from

Omaha, the dykes holding back sensible knavery will be breached.

Thus, ironically, moral education will not promote greater moral

living but increased moral skepticism and knavery. Therefore, to

minimize that threat, better for those in charge of social order to

allow and even encourage people to believe the myths that morality

is based in God or natural law or karma or whatever else the atheists

are debunking. It would be better for a “good without God” world

to be populated by misled conformists than enlightened knaves—

because the former will be more likely to be consistently good, even

when they have no good reason to be. That is a perverse bind for

atheists, who claim to be our greatest champions of enlightened in-

tel igence, scientific realism, and education in the facts.

Furthermore, these atheist moralists have not eliminated from

their moral systems the judging and punishing God they so loathe

and wish to eradicate; they have simply substituted for a religious

God the punishing god of “society.” Nobody suggests that people

will voluntarily behave morally without the threat of sanctions.

29

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

Every moral system under consideration, atheist and otherwise,

recognizes that the monitoring, judgments, rewards, and punish-

ment of some kind of superindividual power are necessary to en-

force compliance. Getting rid of God does not change that; it just

shifts the burden of behavior regulation to the informal and formal

social- control functions of human society: surveil ance, gossip,

snitching, state regulations, police forces, courts, prisons, and so on.

Even people motivated by an enlightened self- interest in increasing

their own wel - being also need the fear of punishment to inform their

calculations. Bayer and Figdor frame this fact nicely: “the choice to

be a comparatively moral person is easier in the context of a society

with wel - considered ethical laws, since breaking these laws will usu-

ally fail to optimize a person’s life- happiness. In other words, laws

often set up an incentive structure that aligns individual self- interest with behavior that benefits society at large.” But the harsher reality

also emerges: “that’s why we often reinforce ethical values when

we see others straying by . . . publicly shaming them.”44 And when it comes to society’s powers of social control, public shaming is only

the beginning. Likewise, for Kitcher egalitarian hunter- gatherers

collectively agreed upon moral norms, but those who might vio-

late them were necessarily threatened with punishments and social

exclusion: “behind [morality] must stand practices of punishment.

Unless there were sanctions for disobedience, fear could hardly be

central to the initial capacity for normative guidance. Conversely,

when punishment is present in a group, it can make possible the ev-

olution of elaborate forms of cooperative behavior.”45 Hence the im-

portance of the risk of being caught in wrongdoing and having one’s

reputation ruined.46 Atheists scorn the idea of a punishing God who

induces fearful obedience, but in the end they must substitute their

own version of the same, a watchful and punishing human society,

to secure moral order. So if anyone thinks “good without God”

30

h o w “G o o d w I t h o u t G o d ” A r e At h e I s t s J u s t I f I e d I n B e I n G ?

means a system in which oversight, control, and punishment are

eliminated in favor of widespread voluntary expressions of ethical

behavior, she will be waiting forever. The choice between God and

(social) god, between one’s creator and judge and the myriad social

control mechanisms of society, is inescapable.

Finally, Kitcher claims that his “diagnosis seems no worse than

that offered by the major rival approaches to ethics.”47 While this

is not the main point of this chapter, I must beg to differ. Does be-

lief in God guarantee that everyone will always do the right thing?

Of course not. There are plenty of religious knaves. However, I do

think that certain kinds of theisms (if their premises are granted) do at least provide good reasons for avoiding knavery, better than those Kitcher can offer. One is that God loves us and knows better than

we do what is best for us even in this life, and so, even when we are

tempted to do wrong for our own advantage, we have a good reason

to believe that we will be better off in the long run to do what is right instead, however difficult that is. (Note: this is not an argument

from divine command, which atheists, I think misguidedly, believe

is indefensible, but from divine benevolence and trustworthiness.)

A second reason is that, while we sensible knaves may be able to

fool the people around us, we cannot fool an all- knowing God, and

will in time (by many religious accounts) certainly be judged and

punished for wrongdoing and rewarded for good deeds. Those two

religiously based reasons and others besides may not constrain all

knaves, given the immense human capacity for knavery, but (when

their premises are granted) they do present good reasons why knaves should constrain their wrongdoing— reasons that are unavailable to atheists. So there are differences in systems of moral reasoning on this point, Kitcher’s claim to the contrary notwithstanding.

Now, to be clear, returning to my main argument, I am not

advocating that everyone in an atheist universe should morally

31

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

free ride or ought to become sensible knaves. Many people may

well choose to abide consistently by their culture’s moral norms.

My point is simply that nobody in an atheist universe confronts

a good reason not to free ride morally under the right conditions, if they so desire, because atheist moralists do not possess such a

good reason. Kitcher knows that, and the other moralists have

just ignored it. But the problem of moral free riding and sensible

knaves is not trivial. Indeed, as far as I can tell, a lot of people in

our world today actually do live by a sensible- knave strategy and

do not seem driven by their psychological misery back into a con-

sistent upholding of moral norms. If we are to move into a future

that is intent on being “good without God,” these morally corro-

sive facts, this systemic vulnerability to moral hackers must be

acknowledged and our moral expectations adjusted accordingly.

Again, I say, atheists have reasons to be good without God, but

not as faithfully and consistently good as these atheist moralists

would like us to think.



the evAded dIffIcuLtY of confLIctInG

Interests

Underlying both problems examined above is the more general fact

that individual and collective interests often conflict. This remains true even after human self- interest is fully “enlightened.” The tension

between the two in real life cannot be dissolved. What serves the

apparent wel - being of specific persons (and the people they care

about) in various situations frequently differs from what is best for

the larger group. Every culture has ways to try to blunt the edges of

this difficult tension, to make the two sets of interests as compatible

as possible. But the tension cannot be resolved.

32

h o w “G o o d w I t h o u t G o d ” A r e At h e I s t s J u s t I f I e d I n B e I n G ?

These atheist moralists explicitly recognize this conflict from

time to time. Sam Harris, for instance, observes in one place that

“we are not, by nature, impartial— and much of our moral reasoning

must be applied to situations in which there is a tension between our

concern for ourselves, or for those closest to us, and our sense that

it would be better to be more committed to helping others.” He also

writes: “it often seems impossible to determine whose wel - being

should most concern us.”48 But rarely do our moralists try to explain

how this problem might be overcome, and never do they do so suc-

cessfully. In the end, they gloss over the problem. They must, for

when it is engaged directly and fully, their arguments break down.

Why so? A crucial hinge on which the arguments of these atheist

moralists turn is the close association between what is good for the

individual and what is good for other people. They say that people

are essentially motivated to enhance their own happiness and wel -

being, and that moral norms are socially generated to facilitate that.

But moral norms also require that enlightened individuals constrain

some of what would serve their immediate self- interests in order

to serve the interests of the group, and thereby serve their own

long- term self- interests indirectly. So, the closer an individual’s self-interest aligns with the interests of all others, the less individuals

have to constrain themselves— meaning, the easier it is for them

to be moral (which for our moralists means being good to other

people), because everyone’s interests come close to coinciding. No

tension, no conflict, no problem. If the interests of individuals and

of everyone else were identical, the problem of motivating people

to be good would disappear. Everyone could simply pursue their

own personal interests, happiness, and wel - being, and that pursuit

would inherently involve being good to and for everyone else.

Yet the more individual and collective interests diverge, the

harder it is to explain why individuals— who now think that their

33

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

only real moral motivation is to be happy and enjoy wel - being49—

should avoid doing what is good for themselves in order to serve

the good of all.50 Enlightened self- interest can reduce the distance

between the conflicting interests, but at some point, it falls short. In order to persuade readers that everyone can readily be good without

God, these atheist moralists have a compel ing reason to downplay

conflicts between individual and collective interests. By my reading,

they seem highly motivated to sidestep the problem.

One way to do so is simply to dissolve the problem by defini-

tional fiat. Bayer and Figdor, for instance, define “morality” itself

by conflating personal and social interests. “A person can be said to

act in a moral manner,” they write in a crucial passage, “if he or she

derives a great deal of self- happiness from other people’s happiness.

A person acts immorally if he or she derives little happiness from

the happiness of others. . . . With that definition, we remove the requirement of selflessness from morality and focus our attention on what really matters— identifying with others and wanting good for

them.”51 Lovely. When everyone’s happiness aligns, life is splendid;

we don’t need to think about the costs of being good. But the

authors are simply evading the cases when one is made un happy by what makes others happy, when individual and collective interests

do not align. Then, in the later chapter promising to sort these issues out, Bayer and Figdor only get lost in a discussion of the trolley

problem and musings about some of their own ethical opinions, fi-

nally concluding that “all our beliefs are subject to change in the face of new evidence.” The key difficulty remains unaddressed.

Another way these atheist moralists dodge this problem is rhe-

torically to confuse what is possible or typical with what is nec-

essarily true. Harris writes: “our selfish and selfless interest do not always conflict.”52 True, but sometimes they do, and that is the problem at stake. Bayer and Figdor claim that “pursuing [one’s own]

34

h o w “G o o d w I t h o u t G o d ” A r e At h e I s t s J u s t I f I e d I n B e I n G ?

happiness . . . can and do[es] lead to ‘typical’ moral behavior” in part because “enlightened self- interest [means that] prioritizing your

own concerns can lead you to behave in a way that is moral and ben-

eficial for society.”53 True again. But just because it can lead to that does not mean that it always will or should. They also write: “we

choose to act morally because our personal preferences are to act

in that way. And since those personal preferences so often line up

with societal morality . . . we end up with an uncomplicated con-

clusion: We choose to be moral because of the happiness it brings

us.” Maybe, sometimes. But, again, what about when personal

preferences do not “line up” with societal morality? About that they have little to say.54

Yet another rhetorical strategy to avoid the problem of con-

flicting personal versus social interests is appealing to extremes

that offer obvious conclusions but sidestep the problem. Harris

observes that “there is often a tension between the autonomy of

the individual and the common good” but then follows with “the

fact that it might be difficult to decide exactly how to balance individual rights against collective interests . . . does not mean that

there aren’t objectively terrible ways of doing this.”55 Of course there are terrible ways of doing that, but how does that point help us deal

with the real problem? Similarly, Epstein argues that “if I am only for myself” then I will personally suffer “dire consequences” that will

make me unhappy.56 True enough. But the problem is not about

people only being for themselves. Even the sensible knave is never only for himself. Such extremes are not in question here, and raising them only obfuscates the difficulties these atheist moralists should

be confronting.57

In the end, our moralists sidestep rather than work through the

fact that individual interests (including the interests of other people

an individual knows and cares about) and collective interests often

35

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

conflict. Failing to resolve that difficulty means they are also unable

to explain why reasonable atheists ought to be committed to a uni-

versal humanism and refrain from sensible knavery.



nAÏve creduLItY ABout nAturAL

huMAn Goodness

A second underlying problem besetting the claims of these atheist

moralists, which is also implicated in the problems discussed above,

is their tendency to assume a naïvely optimistic view of human nature.

Much in their writings seems highly motivated to suppress the rec-

ognition of darkness in human experience. Their books occasion-

ally acknowledge humanity’s history of and capacity for evil. For

example, Kitcher mentions the human “record of cruelty and indif-

ference,” “the old disease— the limited ability of human beings to

perceive and accommodate one another,” “self- destructive urges,”

and “deep resentment and hatred of others.”58

But those occasions are overwhelmed by larger arguments

that presuppose human beings as quite reasonable, cooperative,

well- intentioned, and good. Nearly all of these atheist moralists’

writings exhibit a breezy Enlightenment confidence in social

contracts and moral progress. Their faith in our capacity to put

humanity’s darkness in the past— especially if we can get rid of

religion and build the secular new society— is boundless. Kitcher,

for instance, responds to his own observation that “people have

done appalling things to one another” with this reassuring warning

against “blind acceptance of powerful [religious] myths”: “the

convictions underlying pessimism of this sort [e.g., belief in “orig-

inal sin”] do not stem from rigorously grounded forms of psy-

chological understanding or from scientific evidence about the

36

h o w “G o o d w I t h o u t G o d ” A r e At h e I s t s J u s t I f I e d I n B e I n G ?

inevitable eruption of dark tendencies under a wide range of social

environments. . . . Judgments about the ineradicability of hypo-

thetical human tendencies are premature.”59

How exactly is this fault implicated in the problems examined

above? The answer is clear. If humans are basically reasonable, co-

operative, wel - intentioned, and good, then it will be much easier

to imagine them cheerfully building a secular world of universal

freedom, equality, fraternity, and dignity— and a society untroubled

by sensible knaves. Likewise, good humans will be wel - equipped

to minimize conflicts between individual and collective interests. In

short, the more naturally good humans are thought to be, the easier

being “good without God” becomes.

Thus, nearly everything these atheist moralists discuss concerns

how very possible and reasonable it is for people to be good. That

of course is the core message of their books. But to be convincing,

they would need to engage much more with the overwhelming em-

pirical evidence that humans often have been and are not good—

as assessed not theologically but by the atheists’ own normative

standards— and that most social experiments to expunge badness

from humanity have consistently failed and sometimes brought

forth even greater evils.

Their optimism about humanity is more evident in what these

atheist moralists fail to say than in what they explicitly articulate.

Their near total silence about our tortured and blood- sodden ex-

perience makes their works read like utopian fantasies. Optimism

about human potential is more assumed than argued. Only occa-

sionally does that general confidence surface in direct form. In one

such instance, Epstein offers as one of his general life rules the belief that “Nice Guys Do Finish First.”60 Really? As a rule this is clearly

empirically false. Sometimes nice people finish first, and some-

times, perhaps often, they don’t.

37

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

At one point Bayer and Figdor try to explain why people should

stop “the sad tendency to dehumanize anyone who is different

from us.”61 They take as an instructive case study the 2013 Boston

Marathon bombing committed by the brothers Dzhokhar and

Tamerlan Tsarnaev, whom they reprove for espousing “a deeply

misguided form of Islam.” (Why exactly— having both dismissed

all religions as false and relegated all judgments of objective truth to mere personal opinions— Bayer and Figdor believe they are in a position to declare which forms of Islam are authentic and misguided

is beyond my comprehension, but that is another matter.) How do

Bayer and Figdor think such terrorist behavior could be prevented?

Their solution is to try to use reason to persuade aspiring terrorists

not to kill others: “if I had been able to confront the brothers before

they acted, I would have tried to reason with them. I would have

explained why the bombings would not be in their own self- interest

nor in the long- term interest of their cause . . . to convince them

that their worldview . . . is not conducive to creating life- happiness

for themselves and the society they live in.”62 I too would like to see

noncoercive reasoning do as much good work in the world as pos-

sible. But to think that sitting down with terrorists and other “bad”

people and appealing to their enlightened self- interest in happiness

will change their minds and turn them into “good” people is ex-

tremely naïve— and not because of any religious doctrine of orig-

inal sin but because such an expectation is so far removed from the

facts about how many people in the real world actually think, feel,

and operate.

Epstein writes: “we can agree on certain things we don’t want to

see happen: such as another holocaust or genocide.”63 While that

is true of many people, it can only with the greatest innocence—

arguably self- deceived ignorance— be taken as the consensus of

humanity. Every decade since the last world war has witnessed

38

h o w “G o o d w I t h o u t G o d ” A r e At h e I s t s J u s t I f I e d I n B e I n G ?

blood- soaked genocides in various parts of the world, including

Europe. And neo- Nazism, right- wing nationalisms, anti- Semitism,

and similarly dark forces have hardly disappeared from the earth—

as of this writing, if anything, they appear to be on the rise. The con-

fidence with which Epstein congratulates “us” on our morality is

unwarranted.

Or take as a further example this statement of another atheist

moralist, Katherine Ozment: “I’ve always believed that people

are basically good— they just need structures in their lives to re-

inforce that goodness. . . . I suspect we all live by some version of

treating others well.”64 Really? I see little evidence in history or the contemporary world for the idea that all people live by the rule

that they should treat others well. These atheists’ naïveté about

humanity simply cannot serve as the basis for a realistic moral

philosophy.

In short, the picture of humanity that atheist moralists paint is

too bright, too sanguine, too confident. It is not my purpose to ex-

pound on the dark aspects of human nature. But it must be observed

that absent from these works is any recognition of human history’s

tragic quality, to which (not only religious) human literature, drama, philosophy, and social commentary have testified for millennia.

These works barely note the seemingly endemic and recurrent

human capacities for evil, destruction, and self- destruction, despite

the overwhelming evidence of them that bears upon us every day.

Never registered in these pages are the writings of the many secular

intellectuals who have compel ingly advanced bleak antihumanist

accounts of our human condition. (Epstein’s kid- glove account of

Nietzsche is remarkable: “he cannot be entirely absolved for the fact

that some of [his] sound bites suggest, whether he meant them or

not, that the strong and fortunate have no moral obligation to the

weak and powerless.”)65 From start to finish, these atheist moralists

39

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

seem intent on downplaying the egoistic, selfish, acquisitive, tribal,

violent, and sadistic sides of human experience.

This cheerful picture of humanity further reflects a failure to

grasp how culturally relative are the affective responses to human

pain and destruction that “people” (as if humanity is all the same)

experience. Humans can be socialized to react in many ways to vi-

olence and pain among members of out- groups. In some cultures,

people grimace and show pity over harm or pain inflicted on fellow

humans; in others, they are impassive or even cheer and laugh. Yet

these atheist moralists assume that people universally feel good

about “prosocial” experiences and recoil at the suffering and ruin

of others. That again is wishful thinking. Brains must be formed

to respond to such experiences, and instinctive human tendencies

toward empathy can be readily overridden. It is common to see as

normal the infliction of barbarism, humiliation, and suffering on

people beyond one’s own. Truly inclusive, empathetic humanism is

the exception. These atheist moralists have inherited a particular hu-

manistic moral tradition formed by millennia of ethical influences,

including religious ones, which they are credulous and il - informed

to take for granted as a human universal.66

Optimism about humanity pervades these works for a number

of reasons. One is these atheists’ vehement opposition to religious

doctrines of “original sin” and “total depravity,” which seems to

drive them to opposite secular positions of original goodness and

only- minor- and- unthreatening- depravity. Another is their selec-

tive representation of recent work in sociobiology and evolutionary

psychology emphasizing the prosocial aspects of humanity’s evolu-

tionary inheritance, through mechanisms such as inclusive fitness,

kinship selection, reciprocal altruism, and so on. A third reason may

be the tendency of atheists generally to lay the blame for what is

dark in humanity on the ignorance, superstitions, and malevolence

40

h o w “G o o d w I t h o u t G o d ” A r e At h e I s t s J u s t I f I e d I n B e I n G ?

of religion, which they believe can be overcome as secularism finally

wins the day. An optimistic view of humanity is of course typical of

Enlightenment liberals, whether secular or religious, who are deeply

invested in the ideas of human progress, reason, and the transform-

ative power of education. In any case, authors beckoning readers

to affirm their capacity for moral goodness and the realization of

“our highest ideals” without God cannot afford to dwell upon too

dark a picture of the human condition. And these authors definitely

do not.

But the imbalance backfires. It undercuts readers’ trust in the

authors and their arguments. Had these atheist moralists presented

and worked with a more even- handed view of human moral

capacities and tendencies, both dark and light, their cases might be

more convincing— except that they would then be forced to change

some of their arguments substantially. Instead, their conclusions

feel more like whimsy than realistic analysis. They confuse the way

our moralists hope people could be with how humans really are. The distinct impression one draws is that their cases for being “good

without God” precariously depend on a credulous faith in an innate

and reliable goodness of human beings.

This problem is also curiously ironic, since these very same

atheist moralists represent a movement that fancies itself the van-

guard of a no- nonsense, hard- nosed realism about our true human

condition. “Just the facts of empirical science, please, with no

illusions about God, the meaning of life, or objective moral truths.”

We are talking here about people who inform us, without batting

an eye, that “there’s no absolute moral code that dictates that

murder is unethical.”67 Then these same authors turn around and,

in explaining how to be good without God, espouse breezily opti-

mistic ideas about human nature and moral potential, all but blind

to our species’ capacity for evil. The incongruity is perplexing.

41

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h



concLusIon

I said in the introduction to this chapter that I began this inquiry

with a genuinely open mind, interested to see if atheists really could

make a solid case for the rational justification for a strong morality.

I’m afraid I came away disappointed.68

“The question,” Charles Taylor has asked, “is whether we are

not living beyond our moral means in continuing allegiance to

our [high] standards of justice and benevolence. Do we have ways

of seeing- good which are still credible to us, which are powerful

enough to sustain these standards? If not, it would be both more

honest and more prudent to moderate them.”69 My conclusion

about the atheist moralists examined above is that they are trying to

live beyond their reasonable means and would be honest and pru-

dent to moderate their claims.

The atheist moralists are overreaching. An ethics of gen-

uine goodness without God may be possible. But the substantive

obligations of such a morality are not what most activist atheists

claim they can justify. They will need to lower their standards to fit

the premises and parameters that their atheistic universe actually

provides. People seem justified in being “moderately” good without

God, motivated by a concern about the practical consequences of

morality for their own and their loved ones’ wel - being, understood

in terms of “enlightened self- interest” (what I have called a modest or moderate goodness). But rational and intellectually honest atheists

do not have good reasons justifying their strong, inclusive, univer-

salistic humanism, which requires all people to adhere to high moral

norms and to share their resources in an egalitarian fashion for the

sake of equal opportunity and the promotion of human rights.

Judging by their own accounts of their lives, most of these

atheist moralists had pretty clear ideas of what was morally good,

42

h o w “G o o d w I t h o u t G o d ” A r e At h e I s t s J u s t I f I e d I n B e I n G ?

right, and just prior to committing to atheism. Some even admit

that these ideas were religiously formed early in life. When they

later became atheists, they then set out to reaffirm the core of their

prior moral sensibilities and commitments in light of their beliefs

in a godless universe. Their conclusions, in other words, were to

some extent determined before they began to think and write—

so it appears to me that they are reasoning to a strongly preferred

conclusion, not a logically entailed conclusion. That is not the best

way to work out a coherent moral philosophy, and it will not con-

vince the reasonable skeptic. It seems to me to fall into the cog-

nitive bias of what cognitive and social scientists call “motivated

reasoning,” that is, searching for evidence that confirms what one

already believes and wants to continue believing, rather than ra-

tionally and even- handedly seeking information that could con-

firm or disconfirm a particular belief.70 And that sets up some of

our moralists to try to force and finesse arguments that in fact do

not succeed.71

Still, mine is a qualified conclusion. I am not convinced, as are

some religious people, along with (what is commonly attributed

to) Dostoyevsky, that “if God does not exist, then all things are

possible,” or that an atheistic universe must unavoidably degen-

erate into Nietzschean nihilism.72 I have come to think that a sec-

ular neo- Aristotelian virtues ethics can provide a more moderate,

chastened approach that avoids the extremes of both Nietzschean

nihilism and the overreaching optimism of new atheists yet is

also broadly compatible with theism— about which more in the

conclusion.73 Meanwhile, my answer to the good- without- God

question, in the end, is: to some significant extent, yes, humans

can be and should be moderately good without God. But, please,

don’t get carried away with high expectations and stringent

demands.

43





Chapter 2

Does Naturalism Warrant

Belief in Universal Benevolence

and Human Rights?



This chapter considers the kind of morality we would have reason to

believe in if it was known to be the case that we inhabit a naturalistic universe.1 In particular, I wish to consider whether in that case we

would have reason to believe— as very many modern people in fact

do— in universal benevolence and human rights as moral facts and

imperatives.

A naturalistic universe is one that consists of energy and matter

and other natural entities, such as vacuums, operating in a closed

system in time and space, in which no transcendent, supernatural,

divine being or superhuman power exists as creator, sustainer,

guide, or judge. Such a universe has come to exist by chance—

not by design or providence but by purposeless natural forces and

processes. There is no inherent, ultimate meaning or purpose. Any

meaning or purpose that exists for humans in a naturalistic universe

is constructed by and for humans themselves. When the natural

forces of entropy eventually extinguish the human race— if some

natural or humanmade disaster does not do so sooner— there will

be no memory or meaning, just as none existed before human

45

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

consciousness evolved. This naturalistic universe is the background

reality that mainstream natural science seems to tell us we inhabit.

Officially, science is only methodologically naturalistic, not metaphysically so,2 meaning that scientific methods and explanations

only appeal to natural causes but science makes no judgments about

the nature of ultimate reality. But many of science’s spokespersons

seem to assume and sometimes explicitly promote metaphysical

naturalism as well (as I will show in the following chapter). At the

very least, almost no mainstream science spokesperson advocates

the existence of a supernatural reality transcending nature or imma-

nent in it.3 Metaphysical naturalism also describes the kind of uni-

verse that most atheists insist we inhabit.4

Naturalism is not atheism. Metaphysical naturalism is a general

picture of all reality as consisting of nothing but the operations of

nature. Atheism, by comparison, is the specific, “not- theism” an-

swer to the question of whether some kind of divine being exists.

The two are logically related. In fact, most committed metaphysical

naturalists are functional if not declared atheists, and vice versa. So

while the two positions are distinct in the claims they make, they

readily and usually go hand in hand. My explorations in this chapter

frame matters not in terms of atheism specifically but in the broader

but closely related terms of naturalism, in order to examine whether

naturalism can provide sound justifications for a belief in universal

benevolence and human rights.

What do I mean by universal benevolence and human rights?

Many modern people tend to believe strongly that all human per-

sons everywhere possess inalienable human rights to life, certain

freedoms, respect of conscience, and protection against unwar-

ranted or arbitrary violations of personal property and choices by

government or other persons. The enjoyment of these rights, it is

widely believed, is not contingent upon being smart, attractive,

46

n At u r A L I s M A n d u n I v e r s A L B e n e v o L e n c e A n d h u M A n r I G h ts wealthy, strong, or any other conditional quality or situation. Simply

being a human person endows one with such rights and entitles one

to their respect by and justice from others. Such basic human rights

are such that they place a moral duty on people to honor, protect,

and defend not only their own rights but also the rights of other

humans if they are able to do so.

Further, many modern people believe in universal benevolence,

that is, belief in the inherent moral goodness of sustaining the lives,

reducing the suffering, promoting the health, and increasing the

wel - being of other people, including strangers, and perhaps par-

ticularly of the weak and vulnerable. Again, in principle, benevo-

lence is commonly believed valid for every person of both sexes in

all nations, races, religions, social classes, and ethnicities. Whether

other people are similar to us or not, it is widely believed, it is mor-

ally good to protect their lives and relieve their sufferings, simply

because they are human.

Such beliefs may seem idealistic. But they are woven into the in-

stitutional and cultural fabric of many contemporary societies and

the international system. It is because of the belief in universal be-

nevolence and human rights that nations often come to the aid of

distant disaster victims, hospitals try to save and improve the lives of even the most sick and diseased, and people give money to alleviate

victims of famine, flood, and epidemics. It is ultimately because of

these moral beliefs that the United Nations and many NGOs and in-

dividual advocates work, for example, to curtail the spread of AIDS

in Africa and elsewhere, to provide clean drinking water to remote

vil ages in the developing world, and to organize for the release of

prisoners of conscience and the end of torture.

Such beliefs also often form the background against which

many people try to treat others, including strangers and those who

are different in various ways, with respect, courtesy, tolerance, and

47

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

sometimes kindness. In fact, the ideas of universal benevolence

and human rights have given rise to myriad important features of

contemporary life, from the globally significant United Nations

Universal Declaration of Human Rights to established legal

protections afforded criminal suspects and to the heartsickness that

many ordinary people feel on hearing news of disaster, injustice, and

tragedy, even among strangers who live far away. In short, universal

benevolence and rights are central features of the moral sensibilities

of many— though not all— people today.

The question I address here is this: If we in fact live in the natu-

ralistic cosmos that atheists and much of science tell us we occupy,

do we have good reasons for believing in universal benevolence

and human rights as moral facts and imperatives? In addressing the

issues such a query raises, it is helpful to distinguish three different questions. The first is: Can and do people who believe that we live

in a naturalistic universe also believe in universal benevolence and

human rights and act upon such beliefs? The answer, obviously, is

yes: many believers in naturalism are also passionate and devoted

believers in human dignity, universal benevolence, and human

rights. That answer is so clear, in fact, that simply asking the question risks insulting such people, though it is a point worth clarifying

up front.

The second question is this: Do people who believe that we live

in a naturalistic universe have good reason to believe in universal benevolence and human rights— that is, are they rational y warranted

in asserting and championing such moral claims and imperatives?

Asked differently: Does the moral belief in universal benevolence

and human rights fit well with and flow reasonably from the facts

of a naturalistic universe? This is the main question I address in this

chapter.

48

n At u r A L I s M A n d u n I v e r s A L B e n e v o L e n c e A n d h u M A n r I G h ts The answer I will consider is this: no; if we are intellectually

honest, we will see that a belief in universal benevolence and human

rights as moral fact and obligation does not fit well with, or natu-

rally flow from, the realities of a naturalistic universe. Someone who

believes in a naturalistic cosmos is, it seems to me, perfectly entitled to believe in and act to promote universal benevolence and human

rights, but only as an arbitrary, subjective, personal preference— not as a rational, compel ing, universally binding fact and obligation.

Persons who live in a naturalistic universe may certainly choose to affirm universal benevolence and human rights. But they might

equally reasonably choose some other, quite different, or even radi-

cally different, moral position. At bottom, they do not occupy higher

moral grounds for making compel ing and binding claims on others

on behalf of universal benevolence and human rights.5 This may be

an unpopular argument, and I may in fact be wrong, although I cur-

rently cannot see how or why. But if I am not wrong, then it seems to

follow that many contemporary atheists, who operate with a back-

ground worldview of metaphysical naturalism, are overreaching in

their claim that they are rationally justified in believing, on atheist

terms, in universal benevolence and human rights.

The third question is: If my answer to the second question is

correct— that intellectual honesty does not grant residents of a nat-

uralistic universe warranted moral belief in universal benevolence

and human rights— will human societies and cultures that want

to believe in them anyway, for whatever reasons, be able, notwith-

standing the lack of warrant, to sustain such beliefs over the long

run? If my answer to the second question is in fact wrong, then this

is not a concern. In that case, people who want human societies to

affirm and institutionalize the belief in universal benevolence and

human rights should be able to appeal to the reasonable warrant,

49

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

the good fit, the natural inference that such beliefs represent in a

naturalistic universe.

But if my answer to the second question is correct, then so-

cial practices grounded on belief in universal benevolence and

human rights are endangered. In theory, they would be in grave

danger. However, the third question is not about theory. It is

about whether in real practice, as human cultures and societies ac-

tually tend to function, universal benevolence and human rights

would in fact be jeopardized. The answer to this question is, it

seems to me: maybe, maybe not. I think one can reasonably argue

both ways. We simply may not be in a position to know until the

answer is an accomplished fact one way or another. Sociological

considerations tend to make me think that over time such beliefs

will erode. But more on this later. First, I engage in depth the

second question.



hIstorIcAL trAnscendent Accounts

I have said that I am inclined to believe that if we are intellectually

honest we must concede that belief in universal benevolence and

human rights as moral fact and obligation does not fit well with,

does not reasonably flow from, the realities of a naturalistic universe.

Perhaps it is worth mentioning that I actually do not wish this to be

the case. Given the institutional authority of naturalism in moder-

nity, especially in science, the future of human societies would be

more securely like what I believe they should be morally— namely,

institutionally committed to universal benevolence and human

rights— if these did make reasonable sense in a naturalistic universe.

But I do not see how they do. If anything, it appears to me that a

naturalistic universe can naturally give rise to quite different moral

50

n At u r A L I s M A n d u n I v e r s A L B e n e v o L e n c e A n d h u M A n r I G h ts commitments, ones quite objectionable to those who believe in benevolence and rights.

But, if so, why or how is it that so many modern people do

appear to believe in universal benevolence and human rights?

Answering this (fourth) question is not the focus of this chapter, but

it does provide a key background assumption for my argument. The

best answer— one that many believers in naturalism recognize—

points us in a historical direction, toward the metaphysics and

moral teachings of religious traditions, particularly Judaism and

Christianity.

Many ancient civilizations and cultures readily accepted and

practiced different forms of slavery, infanticide, patriarchy, and some-

times human sacrifice. Many took for granted innate inequalities

between different groups of people. In general, few possessed the

cultural resources to develop a strongly humanistic morality of the

kind we widely affirm today.

By contrast, the transcendent monotheism of ancient Judaism

introduced a set of uncommon ethical sensibilities that were cru-

cial in the eventual development of the culture of benevolence and

rights. These included Jewish sacred beliefs in all human persons

being made “in the image of God”; in God liberating the Hebrews

from oppressive Egyptian slavery; in Yahweh as a God of justice,

righteousness, and loving kindness; in Yahweh as the only true

God over all the people and nations of the earth (universalism);

and in the Promised Land as a place of abundance but also social

justice, economic equity, and judicial integrity. Yahweh abhorred

infanticide and human sacrifice, demanded justice for the poor,

and set legal limits on ill treatment of servants and criminals. Over

centuries, Judaism developed a keen self- critical consciousness

through recurrent prophetic condemnations of injustice, exploita-

tion, and neglect of the poor, the needy, widows, strangers, aliens,

51

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

and the unjustly accused. Judaism also evolved a universal vision of

God’s chosen people on a mission not to conquer the nations but to

serve as the people through whom all of the nations might come to

know God’s love and righteousness and so stream to God’s throne

to worship.

Christianity directly inherited this ethical legacy and added

to it the demanding teachings of Jesus on love for one’s enemies,

universalizing the “neighbor,” self- sacrificial giving, the disciples’

worldwide mission, the sacred value of caring for the physical needs

of others, and the dignity and importance of women, children, and

“sinners.” The Christian Apostles further taught the duty to share

material wealth, respect for the consciences of others, the priority of

persuasion over force, and the power of God’s kingdom to dissolve

divisive social distinctions— “in Christ there is neither Jew nor

Greek, male nor female, slave nor free,” Saint Paul declared; “all are

one in Christ Jesus.”6

Of course, both Jews and Christians have over millennia recur-

rently failed to live up to their own moral teachings— sometimes mis-

erably so and with dreadful consequences. But Jewish and Christian

teachings— on sin, repentance, forgiveness, and restitution— have

also provided the grounds above and beyond “natural sentiments”

for bad conscience, prophetic condemnation, penitence, and self-

correction. And the moral teachings of these religious traditions—

canonized in sacred scriptures and elaborated in the practices of

religious communities— have through centuries of Jewish diaspora

and Christendom been diffused and embedded as deep structures in

the moral cultures of entire societies and civilizations. The skeptical

Enlightenment and modernity shattered Christendom and largely

disestablished Christianity. But the Enlightenment and modernity

have also carried on and developed in mostly secular forms the long

humanistic moral tradition launched and fostered by millennia of

52

n At u r A L I s M A n d u n I v e r s A L B e n e v o L e n c e A n d h u M A n r I G h ts Jewish and Christian tradition. That is, they have retained much

of Christian and Jewish moral values and attempted to reestablish

them on nontheistic footings.

In short, the widespread belief of many moderns— whether

religious or not— in universal benevolence and human rights can

be traced in large part to deep cultural roots in specific religious

traditions that for millennia have nurtured a particular vision of

universal human dignity, responsibility, and accountability. As a

counterfactual matter— politically incorrect perhaps but I think

nevertheless historically demonstrable—

few ancient human

cultures appear to have possessed the embryonic metaphysical and

moral cultural material from which could have evolved the robust

commitment to universal benevolence and human rights that many

moderns today embrace. In any case, regardless of what might have

otherwise developed with regard to benevolence and rights, in fact

what actually did develop, at least in the West, was in large measure the cultural and institutional outcome of deep historical Jewish and

Christian roots. And at the heart of those traditions was the belief in

a transcendent personal God who is the source, governor, and judge

of moral order and action.

Implicit in my account and relevant for the argument hereafter

is my assumption that sustaining belief commitments to ideas and

practices that are difficult and costly requires an account or narrative that satisfactorily explains to neophytes and doubters the reality and

reasons behind the belief commitments themselves. Beliefs with de-

manding and challenging implications and consequences need at

least implicit rationales in order for people to embrace and act on

them over the long run. Such beliefs will not perpetuate themselves

over time without justification. When skeptics ask why anyone

should care about someone suffering on the other side of the world

or in some hospital or foreign war zone, those who do believe that

53

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

we all should care must have a good answer, a compel ing account to

offer. “Because each human person is made in the image of God” has

been one historically compel ing account, at least as long as people

believed in God. Whether explanations such as “Because ‘society’

says so” and “You would wish others to care for you if you were

suffering” might continue to serve as an effective account may be

questionable.

Another premise of my argument worth surfacing here is that

many people are not naturally and predominantly altruistic, self-

giving, considerate of the needs of others, and more committed to

truth and justice than their own welfare. This is not a grand position

on philosophical anthropology but a general empirical observation

that I think is defensible and relevant to this discussion. Most people

have not only bright sides with capacities for genuine good but also

dark sides with capacities for deep selfishness, self- deception, and

indifference toward the needs of others. It is precisely this fact that

helps generate in the first place the problem of benevolence and

rights. If everyone were naturally so good, then we would not need to

work so hard to justify and defend universal benevolence and rights.

I will address the second question posed above by taking the role

of the skeptic who does not see why, if the universe is the natural-

istic one science tel s us it is, we should have a moral commitment

to universal benevolence and human rights. Why should we not re-

alize that such a commitment is grounded in an illusory religious

metaphysics, reject that commitment as il - informed, and formu-

late alternative moral commitments that are more consistent with

the real universe in which we actually live? I will put forward what

seems to me an intellectually coherent and honest case based on

naturalism, even at the expense of perhaps offending deeply held

moral convictions and sensibilities.

54

n At u r A L I s M A n d u n I v e r s A L B e n e v o L e n c e A n d h u M A n r I G h ts



nAturALIsM And MorALItY

Recall the features of a naturalistic universe. There is no tran-

scendent natural law or moral force, no divinity, no ultimate spiritual

meaning or destiny that transcends human invention during the

blip of cosmic time that we humans have occupied. Reality consists

of various conglomerations of infinitesimally small particles pulled

together by physical forces and processes of emergence that are in a

continual state of flux. Matter and energy— atoms, molecules, cel s,

organisms, light, heat, gravity, radiation— exist. Everything in exist-

ence is working itself out by natural forces that are neither designed

nor intended nor morally weighted. Everything simply is. Some

forces and processes generate certain outcomes; others generate

others. Complex substances have slowly evolved. Life has very im-

probably evolved. Conscious and self- conscious human beings have

even more improbably evolved.

Evolution through natural selection works through genetic mu-

tation and selective survival. But it also involves massive death and

extinction. Most of the living species that ever inhabited Planet

Earth, including various protohuman groups, are now vanished. In

the future many other living entities will go extinct. Through very

bad natural or humanmade disasters, humanity could suffer waves

of massive death and maybe near or actual extinction in the not-

too- distant future.7 Eventually, sooner or later, one way or another,

all life on earth will be extinguished. And energy, matter, and natural

forces will simply continue to play themselves out indefinitely.

In the meantime, lo and behold, one species, human beings,

has by odd chance developed cognitive, emotional, and volitional

capacities that result in their making valuations and judgments of a

moral character. By “moral” here, following Charles Taylor, I mean

55

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

understandings about what is right and wrong, good and bad, worthy

and unworthy, just and unjust that are believed to be established

not by people’s own actual desires, decisions, or preferences but by

sources believed to exist apart from them, providing standards by

which people’s own desires, decisions, and preferences can them-

selves be judged.8 Viruses, ticks, and foxes do not create and live in

moral worlds. But human beings, it so happens, do.9

Furthermore, the potential range of human moral perceptions,

categories, valuations, and judgments is immense. That humans are

morally oriented animals per se does not itself specify the content of human morality. In fact, within very broad functional boundaries,

humans can believe, have believed, and sometimes do believe in

an immense variety of different kinds of moral worldviews and

commitments. There is no one single moral system that is hard-

wired into humanity. Humans are not naturally or automatically

humanistic liberal Democrats, for example, or slave- trading racists.

They have to become such things through socialization by other

people and social institutions that believe in and maintain such

moral systems. The recurrent existential human question, there-

fore, is what ought we to rightly believe morally? What is true with respect to morality? What kind of institutions should we promote and defend?

If we are able to slough off the superstitions and errors of pre-

modern mythologies about spirits and gods and heaven and hel ,

what honest, cogent answer might we give to this perennial moral

question? What might we be warranted in believing is right and

wrong, good and bad, worthy and unworthy for homo sapiens

scratching out an existence on the skin of this tiny planet spiraling

around in an empty and inherently purposeless cosmos? Would that

call for a moral commitment to universal benevolence and human

rights? I am afraid, as far as I can see, that it would not.

56

n At u r A L I s M A n d u n I v e r s A L B e n e v o L e n c e A n d h u M A n r I G h ts To begin with, let us first observe that a naturalistic universe does

not seem to offer any moral guidance at all. The heavens, contrary

to what the ancient Psalmist wrote, do not declare the glory of God.

Things just are what they are. More specifically, evolution provides

no moral orientation whatsoever. For many years evolutionists

believed that they could squeeze the doctrine of Progress out of ev-

olution. But it did not take long to realize that evolution is simply an account of change, not progress or advance. Organisms do tend to

“want” to survive. But on evolutionary grounds per se we cannot say

that it was moral y good or bad that the dinosaurs lived or died, for instance. It simply happened.

And if humanity were to be extinguished by a global plague,

survived only by bacteria, that too would, on evolutionary terms, be

morally neither right nor wrong. It simply would be what happened.

The last dying humans might regret and grieve it, but in a natural-

istic universe that would not make the fact immoral. The fact would

simply be that some bacteria could survive and humans could not.10

So, assuming naturalism, if morality is to be acquired at all, it must

be acquired from the human mind, not from a naturalistic uni-

verse. Moral “facts” and values are simply not natural givens existing

“out there” for humans to recognize and embrace. They are, rather,

human constructions that people must invent, believe, more or less

live by, and enforce among each other.



survIvAL MorALItY?

This brings us back to the question: Which moral beliefs ought con-

temporary and future humans to create, believe in, and live by, and

why? Is there a defensible way to defeat the claims of the previous

paragraph? Might the nearly universal drive of organisms to survive

57

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

provide a clue? Perhaps, but it is not clear what that clue actually

suggests. It might help if we could posit a normative “species sol-

idarity rule” stating that each organism ought to be committed to

the survival of its own species. That at least might give us a fixed

starting point from which to build out an evolution- based morality.

Unfortunately, using such a rule would rely on a preexisting moral

obligation in order to explain the existence of moral obligations. We

would then have to explain: Where did that rule come from and

why ought any member of a species believe and act on it?

In fact there are human persons who believe that humans are

the doom of the world and should relinquish their planetary domi-

nance for the sake of the survival of other animal and plant species.

If they are morally wrong in this, is it because they have violated

the species solidarity rule? Alternatively, one might say that such

a “rule” is not actually normative but merely descriptive, that

members of species in fact just do happen to be “committed” to the

survival of their species— and this may perhaps provide the basis of

moral reasoning. But that is wrong too. Members of some animal

species fight and destroy each other. Members of some species en-

danger themselves to protect the lives of members of other species.

Are dolphins tending toward evolutionary immorality when they

save swimming humans from sharks? Is a trained St. Bernard, when

it saves humans buried in avalanches? Are humans evolutionarily

immoral in diverting resources that could help save the lives of vul-

nerable humans in order to instead save animals on the endangered

species list? I do not think so. This hardly seems to me a promising

approach to explaining universal benevolence and human rights.

But let us try harder to derive morality from survival. Let us posit

that for humans “the moral” is that which facilitates human sur-

vival. It is moral to care for the sick because doing so fosters human

survival. It is moral to share one’s food with the hungry because

58

n At u r A L I s M A n d u n I v e r s A L B e n e v o L e n c e A n d h u M A n r I G h ts that increases the likelihood of human persistence. Et cetera. The

question then is: Whose survival? The survival of an individual?

A nuclear family? A kinship group? A tribe? An ethnic group?

A “nation”? A “race”? The entire human species? Which and why

exactly? If the subject of survival is the individual organism and its

family or kin, then it is not clear why universal benevolence should

be a moral fact and obligation. Individuals, clans, and tribes can

simply take care of themselves and rightly be indifferent to the

suffering or survival of others of their species who are just as likely to be competitors as cooperators.

If on the other hand the moral subject of survival is the human

species, then it is not clear why universal human rights should be a moral fact and obligation. In many cases, humanity as an animal

species would be much better off and could potentially evolve

higher levels of reproductive fitness if our most deformed, diseased,

stupid, disabled, criminal, incorrigibly unproductive, and other-

wise functionally useless and defective members were eliminated.

What within the parameters of naturalistic evolution exactly would

be wrong with eugenics, for instance, is not all that rationally clear

under these terms. Such ideas may cause revulsion in us. But my

argument is simply that naturalism cannot well explain the rational

justification of that revulsion.

Back to the question of deriving morality from survival and the

problem of specifying whose survival. Natural selection as a process

operates through the survival and deaths of individual organisms.

Neither saber- tooth tigers nor manta rays ever joined in solidarity

together to enhance their species’ reproductive fitness. They often

simply survived and died as individual organisms subject to the pur-

poseless forces of nature. If anything, they often competed with one

another for individual survival. If individuals managed to survive,

then the species survived. If individuals did not, then the species did

59

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

not. So which human moral system might be derived from the drive

to survive? It depends again on whose survival.

Some advocates of “evolutionary ethics” do attempt to derive

ethics from the drive toward species survival. Some in particular

point to the fact of the evolution of cooperation. We know that some animal species, especially humans, have evolved the capacities to

cooperate to achieve shared goods that enhance survival. Think,

for example, of wolves hunting in packs to kill prey together that

they could not kill individually, or human neighbors col aborating

to raise a barn. This shows that survival is not always the accom-

plishment of individual organisms, even if it often is. So might the

fact of evolutionarily learned cooperation serve humans as the basis

for their moral commitment to universal benevolence and human

rights?

I think not. The two are qualitatively different in crucial ways.

Social cooperation is situationally conditional, for instance, while universal benevolence and rights are categorical y absolute. Social cooperation is generated and explained functionally by its rewarding practical consequences; benevolence and rights of the sort in

question here, however, are warranted on principled grounds, apart from any function or consequences. Social cooperation serves

as a means for clearly bounded (usually small) groups of animals to enhance their reproductive fitness in the face of the dangers or

pressures of other threatening animals or natural conditions; but

the universal benevolence and human rights in question here are,

wel , universal in their scope, demanding moral obligation to care for and be just even to others who may diminish rather than enhance one’s own flourishing. In short, evolutionarily learned social

cooperation enables people under the right conditions to behave in

highly “prosocial” ways. But without importing additional norma-

tive assumptions alien to naturalism, deriving warranted universal

60

n At u r A L I s M A n d u n I v e r s A L B e n e v o L e n c e A n d h u M A n r I G h ts benevolence and human rights from the empirical fact of learned

cooperation seems no more possible than pulling a rabbit out of a

magician’s empty hat.

I can imagine some saying “yes, but the time has come to ex-

tend our cooperative capacities to the entire human race. We must

learn global cooperation if we as humans are to survive.” As an em-

pirical fact, that may be so (or it may not be— it is an empirical

question). But even if it is empirically true, still left unexplained in the claim are the reasons justifying the words “entire” in the first

sentence and “must” in the second sentence. Once again, this claim

presupposes what we actually need to explain and vindicate, namely,

the warranted moral force of a universalistic obligation. What if the

hard empirical fact is actually that the human race would improve its chances of surviving if it eliminated its most destructive, unproductive, and uncooperative members? Should we maintain our

commitment to universal benevolence and human rights? If so, ex-

actly why? In the end, the sheer drive of life to survive, even given

the reality of learned human cooperation, does not seem capable of

providing a defensible warrant for a moral commitment to universal

benevolence and human rights.

About here in this discussion, someone usually points out that

human beings are dramatically unlike other species on the earth,

in that we possess not only bodies capable of physical survival but

also brains capable of complex forms of reasoning, anticipation,

creativity, forethought, imagination, and planning. This, they say, is

precisely where morality comes into play. Humans are not merely

struggling to survive on the earth. They are also able to perceive and

reflect on the earth’s general history and condition, explain to them-

selves the causes and consequences of events, forecast alternative

futures dependent upon different conditions, and make real choices

that have consequences. Such superior cognitive capacities conjoin

61

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

with sophisticated emotional and volitional abilities to generate

moral categories, valuations, judgments, and action.

Fine. All of this is true. But how does it necessarily lead to the

humanistic morality of universal benevolence and human rights?

Such complex human capacities could just as easily lead to a war-

rior ethic of tribal or national conquest and dominance. To derive

the kind of universal humanistic morality that many embrace today

from the sheer facts of complex human cognitive capacities requires

demonstrating a consistent functional benefit that such a morality

provides to reproductive fitness. But universal benevolence and

human rights simply do not demonstrably provide such a ben-

efit. With natural selection, even aided by the complex capacities

of human cognitive ability, reproductive fitness is most evidently

enhanced when individuals seek their own material advantage and

that of their families, kin, and tribes— that is, their local “in- group,”

those on whom their safety, security, health, and future depend.

Interactions with others beyond one’s in- group might advisedly be

peaceful and friendly, but for strategic instrumental reasons, not be-

cause of any universal morality.

Nothing about the human capacity for complex reasoning, fore-

thought, or planning per se naturally leads to universal benevolence

and belief in human rights. It can lead to planning and cooperation,

but those are a far cry from universal benevolence and human rights.

The quest for survival, no matter how well aided by the powers of

the human brain, simply cannot rationally get us to a genuine belief

in the moral obligation of universal benevolence and the existence

of inalienable human rights. Something else seems required to pro-

duce those— if not a transcendent God, then some other account

or explanation.

Some at this juncture may venture the apparently reasonable

idea that globalization changes everything. The idea is that, before 62

n At u r A L I s M A n d u n I v e r s A L B e n e v o L e n c e A n d h u M A n r I G h ts globalization, when time and space greatly separated people on

earth and most of the consequences of their actions from each other,

an ethic of universalistic benevolence and human rights was irrele-

vant to survival. (Remember, survival is the sole value at present

driving this argument.) However, in the globalized world in which

we now live, given the huge military and environmental challenges

humanity now faces, the very survival of our species depends not

only on human cooperation but also on the imperative of universal

benevolence and rights.

I do not see why or how this is necessarily so. What is clear, it

seems to me, is that, given our global challenges, and the fact that

today what some people do anywhere on earth can affect other

people elsewhere on earth, the coordination and cooperation of

those people with good intentions can indeed increase the sur-

vival chances of the human species. But that does not justify the

more ambitious commitment to universal benevolence and human

rights. If one begins with a moral commitment to the survival and wel - being of all human persons, then one might explain why benevolence toward others ought to be universal and not selective. But, once again, that moral commitment is exactly what we are trying to

explain and justify as a conclusion here. We cannot simply drop it

into our thinking as an unexplained axiomatic presupposition and

expect it to work.

Lacking that moral commitment to universalism as a basic

premise, and proceeding with intellectual honesty in a naturalistic

cosmos, I do not know how rationally to defeat certain arguments

against universal benevolence and rights. I can well imagine a con-

trarian arguing, for instance, that in our dangerous, globalized world,

we actually can no longer afford to believe in the myth of universal

human rights and must prepare ourselves to eliminate those parts

of humanity who most threaten the survival of our species. Such

63

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

an argument would have to show that our attempting to protect

and defend the existence, wel - being, and “rights” of all individual

humans on earth in fact endangers the overall survival chances of

our species. That does not seem to me an impossible or even diffi-

cult argument to make.

Of course most modern people would consider such an argu-

ment barbaric and heartless. But the legitimate grounds for having

that emotional response and making that moral judgment are

precisely what we are trying to establish here and defend against

skeptics. Those grounds must in the end be explained, not simply

arbitrarily presupposed or emotively vented.11 They require a co-

gent justification running in the background, capable of being

brought to the foreground and vindicated when necessary. In the

future of our dangerous, globalizing world, those wanting to con-

tinue to champion and defend universal benevolence and human

rights will have to think more clearly and explain more persuasively

than their skeptics, however barbaric and heartless their skeptics

may seem now.

Once again, at issue is not general human survival considered in

the abstract but exactly whose survival and on what grounds, which returns us to the problems of the “species solidarity rule.” Human

survival on a globalized planet in a naturalistic cosmos does seem to

warrant a practical commitment to benevolence extended and rights granted to those others whose enhanced wel - being may possibly

have the effect of enhancing our own wel - being and that of others

we care about. But it remains unclear why such a reality justifies

a genuinely moral commitment to benevolence and rights for all

humans everywhere, no matter how their behaviors may affect one’s

own wel - being. So once again, naturalism, even in a globalized

world, seems to leave us without an adequate justification for the

moral commitment that we seek to validate here. Globalization

64

n At u r A L I s M A n d u n I v e r s A L B e n e v o L e n c e A n d h u M A n r I G h ts certainly raises the stakes, but by itself it does nothing to vindicate

the moral imperative of universal benevolence and human rights.

Another possibility that might work if its premise was actu-

ally true would be to posit that humans possess a natural, innate

sympathy for most or all other humans simply by virtue of their

humanity. Adam Smith made a move like this in The Theory of

Moral Sentiments.12 Unfortunately, the preponderance of evidence falsifies the premise, at least the version of it that would be required to build on it a robust commitment to universal benevolence and

rights. History and experience show that while people may often

feel sympathy for other people, those feelings are also very often

overwhelmed by the all- too- familiar forces of self- interest, insecu-

rity, rivalry, greed, enmity, and revenge. It seems to be just as easy

and likely for one to become estranged from and even hostile to-

ward others who are different as it is to care for them and seek their

good— if not easier and more likely. The power of innate sympathy

is often feeble compared to other less kindly human capacities.

But even if natural sympathy were a common, overpowering

human impulse, that itself would not establish the objective fact

of inalienable human rights and moral obligations of universal be-

nevolence. Again, widespread subjective feelings simply do not and

cannot give rise to moral facts and obligations. To get from one to

the other requires the recognition of an objective fact of rights and

obligations whose independent existence our feelings might only

suggest. For our widespread moral belief in universal benevolence

and human rights does not oblige us to act in response only if and

when we feel sympathy toward others. The commitment requires

that we act regardless of how we may feel. In fact, the belief itself

claims the authority to change how we actually do feel to more

closely align with how we ought to feel. The moral fact of universal

rights itself calls us to learn emotional responses in respect of those

65

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

existent rights of others. So theories of “natural sympathies” just do

not get us to universal benevolence and rights.



A socIAL contrAct Account?

An alternative way to account for the moral obligations of benevo-

lence and rights is to posit some sort of social contract that creates

and implements them. The idea is that the moral facts and duties

involved in universal benevolence and human rights are not inde-

pendent realities derived from God, natural law, or any other tran-

scendent source, to which humans respond or conform. Rather,

universal benevolence and rights are ultimately human historical

and cultural inventions that social collectives so happen for their

own reasons to have decided to agree to define, embrace, and en-

force. And by the power of a Durkheimian “conscience collective,”13

they have come to appear to subsequent generations to have an inde-

pendent, transcendent, even sacred character calling for obedience.

This social contract account may well be descriptively correct. It

certainly comports with a naturalistic universe. But such an account

also gives up most of the ground needed to sustain a belief in uni-

versal benevolence and rights, by shifting these from moral facts and

imperatives to contingent human agreements. The vulnerability is

that if a commitment to rights and benevolence is understood as

merely the outcome of a social agreement, two consequences follow.

First, little prevents individuals who come to believe this from selec-

tively violating the agreement if it serves their advantage and they

can get away with it (Hume’s “sensible knave” again, as examined

in chapter 1). Second, nothing prevents the members of any given

society from deciding that they want to rewrite the social contract

in ways that jettison rights and benevolence. Nothing larger could

66

n At u r A L I s M A n d u n I v e r s A L B e n e v o L e n c e A n d h u M A n r I G h ts or arguably even should constrain individual “moral free riders” or

collective social contract rewriters.

If benevolence and rights are ultimately only institutionalized

historical constructions, then they can be individually circumvented

when possible or collectively deconstructed if social circumstances

seem to merit such a revision. Why should the sensibilities and

agreements of generations long dead necessarily govern our lives

and those who live in the future, unless it is clear how and why uni-

versal benevolence and rights serve our and their real interests?

In this way, the social contract account opens the door for uni-

versal rights and benevolence to join belief in a flat earth and the

divine right of kings in the dustbin of history, if contingent social

conditions and events were to lead people to make that move.

Furthermore, if social contract is indeed the real source of our

belief in rights and benevolence, then the enlightened few who un-

derstand this fact are also inevitably led to a position that contradicts every known principle, instinct, and experience about moral education that humans have ever had: namely that greater and better

moral education does not foster more moral living. If the morality

of rights and benevolence, which people normally act upon because

they believe they are real moral facts and obligations, are really only

historically agreed- upon human constructions, then it would be

better for moral educators to hide this truth from the masses and

perpetuate the contract by allowing people to think that morality is

more than mere contract. It would be better intentionally to mislead

and keep people in the dark in order to get them to act “morally.”

And that is a very strange if not perverse position in which to be.

But, again, all of this simply avoids answering the basic moral

question: What ought human persons to rightly believe is morally true? For the social contract account is not a normative defense of

the validity of benevolence and rights but a descriptive explanation

67

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

for their existence and social power. The social contract account

works in a naturalistic universe precisely by shifting the question

away from what is normatively real and true to how empirically we

came to believe what we believe. Whether or not the contract story

adequately answers its own descriptive question about empirical

sources, it does not and cannot compel people to believe in benev-

olence and rights as moral truths upon which they are obliged to act even if to their own detriment. That would require the more basic

premise that whatever humans collectively decide becomes moral

truth by virtue only of those decisions. But exactly why that should

be so is unclear and remains vulnerable to the problem of moral free

riders and collective social contract rewriters discussed above.

Morality of the sort we are trying to justify here has to do with

what is right and wrong, good and bad, et cetera, which are believed

to be established not by humans’ own actual desires, decisions, or

preferences but by sources believed to exist apart from them. The

social contract account simply redefines benevolence and rights

to be not matters of morality but of social convention. If and when

people come to see these “morals” as mere social conventions, the

main thing that will then compel their conformity in action is the

threat of greater harm for not conforming. And that is not a pre-

scription for sustaining a robust culture of universal benevolence

and human rights.



nAturALIsM’s MorALItY

Before further interrogating what I think are failed attempts to de-

rive and defend a serious moral commitment to universal benev-

olence and human rights from a universe defined by naturalism,

I wish to spell out an alternative moral vision that seems justifiable

68

n At u r A L I s M A n d u n I v e r s A L B e n e v o L e n c e A n d h u M A n r I G h ts given the parameters of naturalism. Suppose we could completely

eliminate from our minds and practices the enduring cultural and

institutional influences of the Jewish and Christian metaphysics

and moral orders that naturalism tel s us are groundless. Suppose

we could also eliminate the other culturally humanistic traditions,

such as Enlightenment humanism, that have been at least indirectly

dependent on transcendent or theistic metaphysics and moralities.

If we could thus “start from scratch” in a naturalistic universe, not

confused by superstitions and errors, and if we could exercise com-

plete intellectual honesty in considering the moral beliefs and

commitments that would be fitting for and reasonably defensible

in a naturalistic universe, what kind of morality might we come up

with? What moral order would make sense, given naturalism’s pic-

ture of reality?

Wel , one is hard pressed to come up with an answer, because it

is not clear that in a naturalistic universe there are normative sources that exist apart from people. Matter and energy are not a moral

source. They just exist and do what they do. The natural processes

that govern the operation of the cosmos are not moral sources. They

are simply the givens of physics and mathematics, elemental facts of

natural reality lacking inherent meaning or purpose or normativity.

Positive and negative electrical charges do not attract one another

because that is right or just, they do so simply because that is simply

how they work. The evolutionary development of substances and life

forms is not a moral source. These also just happen as they happen.

What then in naturalism’s cosmos could serve for humans as a gen-

uine moral guide or standard, having a source apart from human

desires, decisions, and preferences and thus capable of judging and

transforming the latter? I cannot think of any.

Some may claim that human morality should at the very min-

imum conform to the basic direction and mechanisms of physics

69

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

and evolution. That, at least, would bring some consistency to the

entire matter. What such a claim leaves unexplained, however, is

where the “should” in that sentence came from. Why should humans

conform in this way? Why shouldn’t humans who are endowed with

complex cognitive, emotional, and volitional powers do whatever

they want to do? Why should not the “should” of such a naturalistic

morality just as well be that every existent entity is free to be and

do whatever it is able and wants to be and do? Molecules are and

should be molecules to their full extent without unnatural norma-

tive constraints, even when they conglomerate massively and smash

into and destroy other material entities. Jellyfish should be jellyfish

to their full capacities without unnatural moral constraints, even

when they sting, kil , and consume other living sea creatures. And

humans should simply be humans to their full capabilities without

unnatural moral constraints, even if this means acting out in any

way whatever one’s ideas, feelings, and desires make one capable of.

The ought would simply be seeking consistency with the is and its capacities. What would be wrong with that?

Stil , others will continue to insist— despite the discussion

around survival above— that what we know about evolution does

provide us with some moral parameters, even if we cannot think of

evolutionary change as advance or progress. This is arguable. But

let us consider it and see where it takes us. What moral direction

might our knowledge about naturalistic evolution provide to us?

The central moral maxim that such an approach would seem to

offer would be something like this : Each organism should do what-

ever it can and needs to do to survive and thrive. (Again, it is not clear where the “should” in that sentence comes from, but let’s set that

issue aside for a moment.) If reproductive fitness is enhanced by

engaging in cooperative social life, then that is good; if reproductive

fitness is enhanced by antisocial selfishness, than that is good too. If 70

n At u r A L I s M A n d u n I v e r s A L B e n e v o L e n c e A n d h u M A n r I G h ts survival is facilitated by care for the sick and weak, then that is right; but if survival is aided by leaving the sick to die, then that is right.

Whatever organisms can do to survive and thrive is good, right, true,

and just. This may be the closest to what we might devise as a con-

sistent evolutionary ethic. Obviously, however, it accomplishes

nothing by way of securing the moral commitment to universal be-

nevolence and human rights.

Another approach is to ask what exactly, in a naturalistic uni-

verse, would be morally wrong with actions and practices that would

violate most ordinary contemporary people’s sense of benevolence

and rights. Can naturalism provide coherent reasons for rejecting

them? Consider, for instance, the following proposals, all of which

would arguably enhance in various ways the reproductive fitness of

humanity as a species.

• Cities and municipalities should be authorized to round up

all inveterate drug addicts, incorrigible drunks, and long- term

homeless people and either deploy them in socially benefi-

cial projects of forced labor or euthanize them. Such people

are socially unproductive, destructive, and hopeless and have

forfeited their “right” to life and liberty.

• Babies who are born with incapacitating physical or mental

defects should be allowed to die— their parents can try again

to have healthy babies to replace them. Parents, especially in

societies with high population pressures, who give birth to

healthy but unwanted babies should also be allowed to let

them die. Better to have societies populated by wanted and

wel - cared- for children.

• All elderly persons who have finished their productive and

reproductive decades and are now living out their last years

as dependent invalids in expensive hospitals and “assisted

71

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

living” facilities should be removed from social and med-

ical support and allowed to die. This policy would particu-

larly apply to the suffering, terminally il , and those whose life

savings or family members cannot cover the cost of their care.

Half of all medical costs today are said to be spent on people’s

last six months of life. Why? Let the dying die. Use those re-

sources for more productive purposes.

• All persons convicted of serious criminal offenses, especially

multiple offenses and multiple convictions, should, if they are

allowed to live, be involuntarily sterilized so that they do not

pass on their potentially criminal genetic material to future

generations.

• Long- term patients in mental hospitals and insane asylums

who show no promise of recovery from their serious illnesses

should be euthanized.

• Penal systems should return to more punitive arrangements

and practices to not only serve as expensive protec-

tive holding tanks for criminals but to proactively punish

criminals for their offenses, as a means to raise the costs of

crime and so perhaps to deter other prospective criminals

from wrongdoing.

Of course, such suggestions violate the moral sensibilities and

commitments of most contemporary readers. But that is primarily

because most readers are the heirs of millennia of cultural moral

traditions rooted in transcendent monotheism that gave compel-

ling accounts of universal human dignity and destiny that unfolded

historically in complex ways and that now demand universal benev-

olence and respect for human rights.

But what if the naturalist worldview is true? What if those

cultural traditions were built on error? What if transcendent

72

n At u r A L I s M A n d u n I v e r s A L B e n e v o L e n c e A n d h u M A n r I G h ts monotheism turns out to be a myth? What if our actual human situation is one of accidental species existence lived out in cosmic sol-

itude on this minor planet rotating away toward eventual oblivion

in an inherently purposeless, meaningless, and standardless cosmos

that operates according to impersonal and uncaring physical forces?

Does it matter then that demented old people are allowed to die now

instead of a few years later? Is it “wrong” to forcibly bar criminals

from having children? Would it be an injustice to allow a severely

mentally disabled baby to die, hopefully to be replaced by another

healthy baby? If so, on what grounds? By what standard? Why does

it matter morally? Who in the long run would know or care or en-

force any consequence?

In a naturalistic universe, everyone would not have to become

savages or cunning egoists. Any given person might be free to simply

choose to want to be a caring, self- sacrificing humanist. A natural-

istic morality could afford people such a choice. But, again, such a

commitment must also accept the status of an arbitrary, subjective,

personal preference. No account could be given within the bounds

of naturalism as to why such a commitment is preferable or ought

to be binding on others. If other people wished instead to embrace

full- scale eugenics and a ruthless survival- of- the- fittest culture, that would be legitimate and defensible as wel . Lacking a moral standard

truly external to human ideas, feelings, and desires by which those

ideas, feelings, and desires could be judged, it is not clear why we

would not have to accept most every expression of human thought,

affect, and will as morally licit. What else would humans have upon

which to construct being and action?

Moreover, in a naturalistic universe, those smarter, stronger,

more attractive and charismatic people with the capacity by force

or deception to foist their ideas, feelings, and desires on others

would be entitled to do so. Perhaps they might even compel others

73

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

to embrace and internalize their own preferred moral views and

practices, so that others would come to believe that these views

and practices were universally good, right, true, and just. Why not?

Those who can, wil . (In fact, it seems to me a matter of fact that

for the most part today, those who can, actually do.) In the end,

however, a widespread belief that those moral views were true and

universal would not make them so. At bottom, they would simply

be some dominant people’s imposition of their arbitrary views on

other more compliant people.

In short, naturalism, when taken with all seriousness and hon-

esty, would most likely liquidate our standard concept of morality.

“Morality” itself— as involving standards external to our own

thoughts, emotions, and desires— would have to dissolve or trans-

mute into some other different thing. Even if we provisionally allow

ourselves to smuggle into our considerations a normative “should”

that actually seems alien to naturalism, the moral orientation we

then derive is oriented to practical functionality and unequal merit

in human survival and reproductive fitness. Universal benevolence

and human rights are still nowhere near explained or secured. And if

we resort to free human choice for belief in benevolence and rights,

in doing so we redefine them as arbitrary subjective preferences

holding no more inherent authority or attraction than an alterna-

tive commitment to warrior conquest and glory, pitiless strategic

egoism, sadism, or utter relativistic nihilism. They are all equally le-

gitimate potential personal inclinations.



other defIcIent Accounts

All of this is nuts, some readers may be saying by now. Moral phi-

losophy has produced numerous rational ethical systems that do

74

n At u r A L I s M A n d u n I v e r s A L B e n e v o L e n c e A n d h u M A n r I G h ts not appeal to transcendent metaphysics yet point to the truth and

goodness of benevolence and rights. I wish that this were so. It is

true that moral philosophy has generated such moral systems, but

philosophy has also just as effectively pinpointed their intellectual

faults and failures. All versions of such rational, nontranscendent

moral philosophies, it turns out, fail to account successfully for uni-

versal benevolence and rights in one or both of two ways. Either they

surreptitiously smuggle in assumptions and commitments from the

Judeo- Christian or some other moral heritage, or they simply fail

on their own terms as rational systems justifying universal benev-

olence and rights. I have already discussed such problems with the

social contract account above. Here I briefly examine a few other

possibilities.

Utilitarian moral reasoning at first appears compatible with a

naturalistic universe, as it appeals only in its moral calculations to

human pains and pleasures, defining the moral good as that which

produces the greatest happiness for the greatest number. Doesn’t

utilitarianism as a philosophy focused on human happiness offer

us a moral system capable of underwriting universal benevolence

and human rights? Wel , no, actually. For one thing, utilitarianism

is incapable on its own terms of explaining why anyone should actually be committed to the happiness of the greatest number. Why

not— given utilitarianism’s assumption of hedonic individualism—

simply be concerned with one’s own pleasure and happiness and

perhaps those of the other people we care about? If we humans are

simply biological bundles of phenomenally experienced pain and

pleasure that constitute happiness and unhappiness, why be obliged

to maximize general happiness?

Motivating utilitarian calculations to that end requires a prior

moral commitment to maximal collective human happiness— a

commitment that utilitarianism itself cannot produce or justify.

75

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

Furthermore, even if we grant the maximum collective happiness

premise, utilitarianism is oblivious to inalienable human rights. In

fact, if feeding members of a minority religious group to lions for

the stadium entertainment of the masses would increase the overall,

calculated, bottom- line happiness of the collective, then doing so

would be moral in utilitarian terms— the increased happiness of the

masses would outweigh the lost happiness of those fed to the lions.

In the end, since pleasure and happiness are simply on a qualita-

tively different plane than innate, universal human rights, utilitari-

anism is unable to get us from the former to the latter. If anything,

utilitarianism greatly endangers the latter, as we see, for example, in

the writings of the Princeton utilitarian ethicist Peter Singer, who

suggests allowing babies born with defects to die so they may be

replaced with healthy siblings.14

What about Kantian ethics? Wel , Immanuel Kant actually did

appeal to a transcendent reality to make his ethical approach work.

While he critiqued traditional proofs of God’s existence, in most of

his other work across his career Kant maintained that the very pos-

sibility of “the Highest Good” for humans is dependent upon the

postulates of the existence of an omnipotent, omniscient, and just

divinity and an afterlife and some kind of immortality of the human

soul.15 Nonetheless, some contemporary Kantians, including ex-

plicitly atheist moral philosophers, wish to adopt Kant’s general

approach to ethics minus any transcendent reference. Does that

work? Kant did not think so. But let’s see.

Kant’s categorical imperative teaches that we should “act so as to

treat humanity, whether in your own person or in others, always as an end, and never merely as a means,” in order that we may fulfill the general formula of the moral law, namely, “act so that the maxim may be capable of becoming a universal law for all rational beings.” Surely this rationally explains why all persons ought to respect and respond

76

n At u r A L I s M A n d u n I v e r s A L B e n e v o L e n c e A n d h u M A n r I G h ts to the obligations of universal benevolence and human rights?

Unfortunately, not really, at least not again without first smuggling

in a prior moral commitment not itself derived or justified by a sec-

ular version of Kantian ethics.

The main problem with the atheist’s use of Kant’s ethic for our

purposes here, as Alasdair MacIntyre has shown in After Virtue, is its failure to finally explain why anyone ought to be committed to

following it in the first place.16 Kant’s system may work well as a

moral guide for the person who is already committed for other reasons to universal benevolence, fairness, justice, kindness, and so on and is looking for a handy rule by which to make specific moral decisions.

Such was the case for Kant himself, who came to his philosoph-

ical work having already absorbed and taken for granted the moral

commitments and sensibilities of his own pietistic Lutheran cul-

tural upbringing; and who, again, explicitly appealed to transcend-

ence as a kind of “moral backstop.” Kant never doubted what the

content of a good moral life looked like. What Kant’s moral philos-

ophy provided was something like concise rules for judging ration-

ally whether one’s specific moral choices were correct and would

fit what he took to be legitimate moral commitments— judgments

that did not have to appeal directly to God or the Bible.

But minus a transcendent reference, Kant’s moral system

does not provide an account of why anyone ought to be bound to

following those moral commitments to begin with. Suppose that

you are inclined toward serious rational egoism and not benevo-

lence. In that case, the right thing for you to want is actually not

to treat all other people as ends and not means. Rather, the correct

thing for you to want is for everyone else to treat you as an end, but

for you to be free selectively to treat other people as means if and

when that serves your self- interest— which often it clearly can and

does (Hume’s sensible knave yet again).17

77

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

Kant therefore may be helpful to those who are already

committed to living a moral life characterized by respect, duty, rea-

sonableness, and munificence. But for people who are living in a

world without divinity and a universe without larger meaning or

purpose and are looking for a good and compel ing reason to believe

in universal benevolence and human rights, the Kantian approach

minus transcendence comes up short. Against many disagreeable

alternative moral viewpoints, what a secular Kantian can say in ri-

poste is that they violate respect for reason and good wil — hardly a

vigorous argument against such rivals, who simply counter: “Who

gives a damn? To hell with your good wil .” In short, secular

Kantians presume respect for reason and good will rather than rationally justifying and necessitating them. The naturalist challenge

requires a better account than Kant minus transcendence can give.

Some may protest here that my objections to these standard

moral philosophies presuppose some pretty antisocial people not

wil ing simply to go along with benevolence and respect for others’

rights. Yes, quite right, that is precisely the point. It turns out that in the world we live in there are plenty of such people around.

Moreover, there are antisocial capacities, if not propensities, in

nearly all people, myself included. Neither an attitude of optimism

nor “Up with People” rallies will be enough to address the moral

challenge. If universal benevolence and human rights as moral facts

and imperatives are to be sustained in this world, that will require

credible explanations and accounts that legitimize practices and

institutions sufficiently compel ing to override the parochialism,

selfishness, and enmity that real existing humans are so very ca-

pable of generating among themselves and against each other. “All

you need is love” and “Everybody get together” turn out to be very

big orders. The question, then, is what metaphysically or otherwise

grounded morality can generate such love and solidarity in a world

78

n At u r A L I s M A n d u n I v e r s A L B e n e v o L e n c e A n d h u M A n r I G h ts so pathetically lacking in love and solidarity? I am afraid that neither the utilitarian followers of Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart

Mill nor secular Kantians have the answer.

Finally, let us consider the position of “self- evident moral re-

alism,” of which the work of the University of Wisconsin moral phi-

losopher Russ Shafer- Landau is a good example.18 Shafer- Landau

rejects moral relativism and defends objective moral realism, not by

appeal to a divinity or transcendent command but by arguing that

moral principles simply exist. They just are. Moral facts are part of

the furniture of our reality just by virtue of the way it is. Moral truths make up the distinctly moral world that we find ourselves inhabiting,

simply as it is, just as the laws of physics and chemistry describe

what is true about aspects of the material world that they address.

People don’t invent these moral principles, nor do they necessarily

derive from the will or character of God. They simply are what they

are, just part of the fabric of our reality.

Shafer- Landau writes: “we are not the authors of morality, but

rather are constrained by moral rules not of our own making. . . .

Moral principles and facts are objective in a quite strong sense: they

are true and exist independently of what any human being, no

matter his or her perspective, thinks of them.”19 And again: “if some

[moral] standard is true, irreducibly, and to be construed realisti-

cally, then nothing makes it true; its truth is not a creation, but instead a brute fact about the way the world works.”20 Furthermore,

for any reasonable and properly formed person, moral truths will

be self- evident. By that Shafer- Landau means that “adequately un-

derstanding and attentively considering just [a moral proposition]

is sufficient to justify believing that [moral proposition].”21 Included in the list of moral propositions Shafer- Landau believes are self-evident are the propositions that, other things being equal, “it is

wrong to take pleasure in another’s pain, to taunt and threaten the

79

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

vulnerable, to prosecute and punish those known to be innocent,

and to sell another’s secrets solely for personal gain.”22

What might we say about such an argument for our inquiry

here? Doing justice to his sophisticated argument is well beyond

the scope of these few paragraphs. For present purposes, suffice it

to say that if Shafer- Landau’s self- evident moral realism is correct, then naturalism as I have described it here is in big trouble. Shafer-Landau asserts the real self- existence of moral principles and facts

possessing genuine normative authority. And these are not reduc-

ible to matter and energy and whatever else constitutes “only na-

ture,” as naturalists understand it. Indeed, Shafer- Landau’s moral

theory is explicitly anti naturalist. We need, he argues, to “introduce into our ontology a sui generis category of values. . . . I think moral facts are different in kind from any other [facts]. We should

resist the naturalist’s pressure to see all reality in terms amenable

to scientific confirmation. What is needed, then, is a defence

of ethical non- naturalism.”23 But, he claims, “the best scientific views will not reveal the existence of moral properties, because

moral properties are not scientific ones. Doing ethics is not doing

any kind of science. Therefore there is a class of things (moral

properties) that exist in addition to the battery of things that

science can reveal to us.”24

Once that move is granted, naturalism unravels.25 Self- evident

ethical nonnaturalism complicates reality in ways naturalism cannot

handle. “Non- naturalism’s ontology cannot be as compact as that

of . . . classical naturalism,” Shafer- Landau says. “There are (at least) two kinds of properties, and therefore (at least) two kinds of facts.”26

One involves natural facts, and the other involves sui generis moral

facts, which cannot be reduced to natural facts. Furthermore, “at

least some fundamental moral truths are knowable a priori,” that

is, without the need for scientific investigation.27 And in resisting

80

n At u r A L I s M A n d u n I v e r s A L B e n e v o L e n c e A n d h u M A n r I G h ts the claims of naturalism, Shafer- Landau says, “non- naturalists have

nothing to be ashamed of with their relatively expansive ontology.”28

Shafer-

Landau thereby opens up space for immaterial,

nonnaturalistic features of reality, one of which is moral facts. His

ethics thus require “a kind of metaphysical pluralism, one that allows

for more than one kind of property and fact in the universe.”29 But

having opened the door to the existence of immaterial moral prin-

ciples and facts, let us note, there is no obvious reason why some-

thing like a natural law or cosmic forces like karma, for instance,

should be automatically ruled out of bounds. They need not be

ruled in bounds— they are not required— but nothing in principle in Shafer- Landau’s ethics must or can exclude them either, as far as

I can see. The same is true about the possible existence of an imma-

terial divine being. Shafer- Landau is not closed to these possibilities, even if his defense of moral realism does not depend upon them.

He expressly states: “I want to remain neutral here on theological

matters.”30 And his position, quoted above, that “there are (at least)

two kinds of properties, and therefore (at least) two kinds of facts,”

obviously implies that there could possibly be three (or more) kinds

of properties and facts belonging to reality (perhaps including ones

that would invalidate atheism).31 At bottom, then, if Shafer- Landau’s

argument and others like his are convincing, then metaphysical nat-

uralism is rejected.

But for argument’s sake, let us loosen up the parameters of our

analysis. Let us set aside the concern with naturalism and focus in-

stead on atheism. Let us suppose that a version of Shafer- Landau’s

case is correct in which in reality only two (and no more) kinds of

properties and facts exist: (1) scientifically discoverable natural

facts, and (2) self- evident ethical facts having no religious basis. That is, no divine, transcendent, or (quasi- )religious property like karma

exists, even though moral facts exist. We would then have a version

81

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

of Shafer- Landau’s self- evident moral realism that a nonnaturalist

atheist could embrace, by accepting the reality of immaterial, non-

natural moral facts while still rejecting the existence of God or other

religious entity related to those moral facts. Does that secure us uni-

versal benevolence and human rights?

The answer is: not now and probably not ever. Shafer- Landau

has not listed universal benevolence and human rights among the

moral facts he believes are self- evident, and I doubt he would ever

attempt it.32 Let us be clear: a vast distance separates “do not in-

flict pain on others for your own pleasure” from “actively practice

benevolence toward and champion the human rights of all people

everywhere, as you are able.” The first is prohibitive and narrow,

the second is proscriptive and globally expansive, among other

differences. Of course, an atheist moralist may assert that universal

benevolence and human rights are part of the self- evident moral fur-

niture of reality. But to be persuasive on Shafer- Landau’s terms, the

atheist moralists need their claim to pass the self- evident test. Given all I have argued above, we have little reason to expect to see that

happening.33 The doubts of the moral skeptics are sure to prevail

on this point, and reasonably so. In any case, as it currently stands,

the burden rests with those who think otherwise. And until that is

accomplished, I stand by my case that a naturalistic universe— even

a “modified” one that admits immaterial, nonnaturalistic entities—

does not rationally justify a commitment to universal benevolence

and human rights.



But cAn we sustAIn It AnYwAY?

Here I would like to return to address the third question posed at

the outset: If my answer to the second question as argued above is 82

n At u r A L I s M A n d u n I v e r s A L B e n e v o L e n c e A n d h u M A n r I G h ts correct— that intellectual honesty does not grant residents of a naturalistic universe warranted moral belief in universal benevolence

and human rights— will human societies and cultures who want

to believe in them anyway, for whatever reasons, be able, notwith-

standing the lack of warrant, to sustain such beliefs over the long

run? I think the answer to this is arguable.

On the one hand human cultures demonstrate amazing capacities

to carry on institutional practices long after their animating sources

have withered. Max Weber’s book The Protestant Ethic and the

Spirit of Capitalism, for instance, illustrates how the sixteenth- and seventeenth- century Protestant Reformation’s “worldly asceticism”

gave rise to theological and spiritual categories and practices that

arguably helped foster the emergence of modern capitalism, which

has since continued as the world’s most powerful social institution

despite the decline of doctrines about predestination, salvation,

and hel . Weber may be mistaken on some of his historical details,

but the larger theoretical point still holds— cultural ideals and

practices often survive the environments that produced them, can

transpose into novel parallel forms, and frequently have long shelf

lives. Perhaps belief in universal benevolence and human rights has

taken on a cultural life of its own, apart from the transcendent met-

aphysics that helped give birth to it, and will be able to carry on

through inertia into the human future indefinitely.

At the same time, sociological understanding also suggests that

beliefs and ideas require institutional resources to sustain them.

Values, categories, norms, and viewpoints do not operate like per-

petual motion machines. Entropy is always at work. Alternative

values, categories, norms, and viewpoints are always competing for

adherents. In order for belief commitments— especially challenging

and costly commitments— to endure over time and space, they must

benefit from institutionalized resources and customs to reinforce

83

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

and validate them. Resources are scarce and tend to gravitate to

compel ing ideas and opportunities to generate more resources.

Time and again, in the historical record of cultural change, beliefs

and values once prized have come to seem outmoded, irrelevant,

passé, not worthy of allegiance.

We cannot predict whether this would happen to the now

widely accepted modern belief in universal benevolence and

human rights if and when increasing numbers of people come to

grasp and internalize the full meaning of life in naturalism’s uni-

verse. But if my argument above is valid and if our common belief

in benevolence and rights were to gradually or suddenly slip away,

that would, in my view, be a tragedy of unspeakable proportions.

I shudder to think of my grandchildren and their children and

beyond having to live in such a world. For this reason, I suggest

that it is worth our reconsidering the necessary metaphysical and

cultural bases of the moral facts and obligation to which we are

committed, now, while they are still understood and practiced,

even if for flimsy reasons.



concLusIon

Let me be clear about the claims here. My argument has not

demonstrated that we do not live in a naturalistic universe. We

may. My argument only concerns the reasonable consequences for

our ideas about universal benevolence and human rights if that is

the case. Neither has my argument established the truth of tran-

scendent monotheism. That was not the point. My more limited

claim on that matter is simply that transcendent monotheism was

a crucial condition in giving rise historically and culturally to our

current commitments to benevolence and rights.

84

n At u r A L I s M A n d u n I v e r s A L B e n e v o L e n c e A n d h u M A n r I G h ts Furthermore, I am obviously not suggesting that only Judaism

and Christianity foster people’s acting morally. Certain significant

standards of substantive morality— against unjust kil ing, lying,

stealing, and so on— are (contra strong cultural relativists) found

in and supported by every human culture. Rather, I am speaking

more precisely to the much higher standard of morality demanded

by universal benevolence and human rights. Belief in these is not

in fact universal— although many moderns would like it to become

so— and therefore needs explaining and defending.

Let us suppose then that we are interested in sustaining and

strengthening the modern moral commitments to universal benev-

olence and human rights. Let us say that we want on moral grounds

everywhere to eliminate slavery, child abuse, political imprison-

ment and torture, the sex trade, and the like. Let us agree that we

ought to live in a world in which people and nations do what they

can to stop disease epidemics, aid the victims of catastrophe, and

oppose the gross exploitation of the poor, no matter where and to

whom these happen. And let us suppose that it is not only perhaps

situationally beneficial but also truly morally good for people to

be interpersonally kind, thoughtful, and fair to other people. The

question is: What kind of reasoned basis and moral culture do we

need to vindicate those commitments and practices?

The condition for these having evolved into existence in the first

place was the historical emergence of transcendent monotheism,

first in Judaism and later continued by Christianity. The question

we now face, I suggest, is whether the metaphysical worldview of

naturalism that has in many quarters displaced transcendent mono-

theism as the predominantly authorized view of reality can provide

the intellectual and emotional foundation to sustain this belief in

benevolence and rights. I know there are smart people who think

it can. But I simply cannot see, for reasons explained above, how

85

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

that is so. And so I fear that in the naturalistic universe that atheists promote, universal benevolence and human rights will in due time

as cultural objects go the way of the dinosaur. And that would be

an unfortunate unintended consequence of the triumph of atheism,

and the metaphysically naturalistic view that is its partner, if they

indeed triumph.

We may hope that I am wrong. But hope itself is not enough.

What we also need is an articulation of some rational and compel-

ling account for high moral standards of benevolence and rights— if

indeed such an account exists. Nothing short of this is needed for the

sake of our children, grandchildren, and all future generations whom

we want to live in humanistic, not inhumane societies. Meanwhile,

until that articulation is accomplished, atheists ought, I suggest, to

consider the possibility that they are indeed overreaching in their

claim to be able rationally to justify a commitment to universal be-

nevolence and human rights.

86





Chapter 3

Why Scientists Playing

Amateur Atheology Fail



In this chapter I address a specific concern related to the very big

topic of the proper relation of science and religion.1 This is a hugely

important issue, one that has generated a lot of controversy. The

topic is important because science and religion are both weighty

matters in their own right, because science and religion address

questions and make claims about some of the same subjects, and

because how we think science and religion ought properly to relate

to each other has big consequences for how we think about life and

how we operate important social institutions such as schools. There

is a lot of misguided and sloppy thinking about science and religion

going on these days, including among some otherwise very smart

people, and critiquing that can help to sharpen our own critical

thinking skil s. The question also touches on some key claims made

by numerous contemporary atheists.

I am a sociologist who is also interested in certain philosoph-

ical questions. So I am going to engage some philosophical issues

here, but in a way that is framed by a sociological perspective.

Arguments about science and religion concern not only clear and

unclear thinking about ideas, which philosophy encourages us to

87

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

grapple with, but also the question of the control of turf. By “turf”

I mean something like the areas of neighborhoods ruled by gangs.

With science and religion, the turf in question is not controlled by

threats and violence but by institutionalized beliefs about authority

and legitimacy that are struggled for and carefully protected by

groups of people with divergent interests. The general sociological question is: Who has the right, the competence, the legitimate authority to make claims that stick, claims that others should recog-

nize as valid? The specific question here is: What kinds of issues and

claims is science legitimately authorized to address and make? And what kinds is religion legitimately authorized to address and make?

This is a sociological issue because it concerns the cultural construction of claims- making authority by different and sometimes rival so-

cial groups and institutions.2 I will complicate this turf metaphor in

a bit, but it is a good place to start.

I have observed that certain wel - known science authors, often

writing for popular audiences, seem to feel entitled not only to write

with authority about science but also to pronounce on metaphysics

and religion. And I think that is often a problem.

Here is what I mean. I read a lot of books about science. I really

believe in the importance of science and want to learn from science

all I can. I don’t mean that I read supertechnical science books but

those written for the wel - educated public. What I have noticed in

reading such books is that their authors sometimes abruptly slip

from making scientific claims based on scientific methods and ev-

idence to asserting metaphysical and theological claims, seemingly

based on scientific authority but in fact having no properly scien-

tific merit. These statements are often non sequiturs. Invariably,

they contradict and dismiss religion. Most are made by professed

atheists. They are clearly meant to undercut religious claims, au-

thority, and plausibility.

88

w h Y s c I e n t I s t s P L AY I n G A M At e u r At h e o L o G Y fA I L

Here is one example. Recently, I was reading the globally

bestsel ing 2015 book Sapiens: A Brief History of Humankind, by the Oxford- educated Israeli scholar Yuval Noah Harari.3 In it, Harari

pulls together massive amounts of scientific evidence to tell us

about the long story of human biological and cultural evolution.

His references are empirical, reasonable, and mostly impressive. So

I was enjoying this book when, on page 28, I suddenly found my-

self reading these words: “there are no gods in the universe . . . out-

side of the common imagination of human beings.” “No . . . things

[like gods] exist outside of the stories that people invent and tell

one another.” “Religious myths” are “imagined,” “fictions” produced

from “collective imagination,” not “objective reality.” I found these claims really jarring. I had just been reading Harari’s story about

the human Cognitive Revolution, which good empirical evidence

demonstrates occurred many tens of thousands of years ago. Next

thing I know and without warning, I’m reading theological meta-

physics: “There are no gods in the universe.” Really?

How, I wondered, does or could Harari possibly know these

things? From artifacts dug up in archeological excavations? From

fossils archived in natural history museums? I think not. Said plainly,

Harari is here engaging in a deceptive sleight of hand, an unac-

knowledged smuggling of atheological metaphysics in through the

back door of science, ostensibly with the authority of science. I have

no doubt that Harari would on principle defy religion’s setting two

toes onto science’s turf. But he obviously feels entitled to wander

onto religion’s turf, to pour a tank of gasoline on it and to set it on

fire. Worse, he does not even seem to be aware of his own intellec-

tual category- shifting here.

I will provide other examples like this hereafter, but first I want

to make a crucial distinction. That is between (1) a scientist pub-

licly offering a personal confession of his best evaluation of all of the 89

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

available evidence and concluding that he cannot as an individual believe certain religious claims, and (2) a scientist publicly suggesting

or claiming with scientific authority that what science has learned itself shows that religious claims are false or almost certainly false.

The first position is legitimate. All scientists have the right to decide for themselves whether they can or cannot believe certain religious

claims, and the findings of science may certainly play an appropriate

role in that discernment. Furthermore, scientists, like everyone else,

have the right to tell others about their personal beliefs. It is the

second case that I take issue with. Scientists as public intellectuals

have no legitimate intellectual grounds for many of the dismissive

metaphysical or religious claims they make, supposedly on the basis

of the findings of science.

Just to make sure you do not think I am cherry- picking an

anomalous passage from an exceptional case, let me offer other

examples of atheist scientists interloping in this way onto the turf

of metaphysics and theology. In a book published in 2014, the bi-

ologist Edward O. Wilson claims: “the evidence is massive enough

and clear enough to tell us this much: We were created not by a

supernatural intelligence but by chance and necessity. . . . There is

no evidence of . . . [a] demonstrable destiny or purpose assigned

to us, no second life vouchsafed us for the end of the present one.

We are . . . completely alone.”4 Really? Empirical evidence tells us

that? How so?

The University of Hawaii particle physicist, Victor Stenger, sim-

ilarly writes: “empirical data and the theories that successfully de-

scribe those data indicate that the universe did not come about as

a purposeful creation. Based on our best current scientific knowl-

edge, we conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that a God who is the

highly intel igent and powerful supernatural creator of the physical

universe does not exist.”5

90

w h Y s c I e n t I s t s P L AY I n G A M At e u r At h e o L o G Y fA I L

Paleoanthropologist Richard Leakey and science writer Roger

Lewin claim that the “important message that comes to us from

the fossil record” is that any (alleged) “God surely had no plans

for Homo sapiens, and could not even have predicted that such a

species would ever arise.”6 For a final example sufficient for present

purposes, Marcelo Gleiser, a Brazilian physicist and astronomer on

the faculty at Dartmouth College, writes: “there is no Final Truth to

be discovered, no grand plan behind creation.”7

In case you think this kind of writing is only a recent expression

of the New Atheism, think again. It has a long history. Consider, for

example, this statement from Bertrand Russel , the British mathe-

matician, logician, and philosopher, published in a 1903 article in

the Independent Review, which describes “the world which Science

[capital S] presents for our belief”:

Man is the product of causes which had no provision of the end

they were achieving. . . . His origin, his growth, his hopes and

fear, his loves and his beliefs are but the outcome of accidental

collections of atoms. . . . No fire, no heroism, no intensity of

thought and feeling can preserve an individual life beyond the

grave. . . . All of the labors of the ages, all the devotion, all the

inspirations, all the noonday brightness of human genius, are

destined to extinction in the vast death of the solar system. . . .

The whole temple of man’s achievements must inevitably be

buried beneath the debris of a universe in ruins— all of these

things . . . are so nearly certain that no philosophy which rejects

them can hope to stand.8

So “Science” here is supposedly tel ing us what we must believe

about the meaning and purpose and destiny of humanity and the

universe: namely, there is none.

91

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

Really? Science can tell us that? No, it can’t. The “meta” prefix

of “metaphysics” makes a huge difference in distinguishing it from

mere physics. So does the “theo” prefix in “theology” make it a fun-

damentally different discipline of inquiry from other “ologies” like

biology or cosmology.

Yet scientists regularly venture such claims anyway. Consider

this more recent statement by the physicist Steven Weinberg in his

book The First Three Minutes:

It is almost irresistible [although false] for humans to believe

that we have some special relation to the universe, that human

life is not just a more- or- less farcical outcome of a chain of

accidents reaching back to the first three minutes, but that we

were somehow built in from the beginning. . . . It is very hard to

realize that this is all just a tiny part of an overwhelmingly hos-

tile universe. It is even harder to realize that this present universe

has evolved from an unspeakably unfamiliar early condition, and

faces a future extinction of endless cold or intolerable heat. The

more the universe seems comprehensible, the more it also seems

pointless.9

Weinberg here is trying to drive us from a physics description of

the Big Bang, about which he has real expertise, to the conclusion

that the universe is in fact pointless, which his expertise does not

authorize him to make. What entitles him to move from science to

metaphysics so effortlessly? It’s unclear. And my simple point here

is that it is illegitimate. The metaphysics does not rationally follow

from the science, and never could.

So on what grounds do such scientists seem to think they are

entitled to pronounce like this on metaphysics and theology, when

they are not philosophers and theologians? Some, I suspect, do not

92

w h Y s c I e n t I s t s P L AY I n G A M At e u r At h e o L o G Y fA I L

even realize what they are doing. They appear simply to be oblivious

to the relevant epistemological and discursive boundaries and so do

not realize that they have wandered onto someone else’s turf. The

simple word for that, I am afraid, is “ignorance.” Others, it seems,

appear simply to believe that because they speak with the authority

of science, they are authorized to pronounce authoritatively on any

topic. The simple word for that is “arrogance.” It goes without saying

that neither ignorance nor arrogance befit good science, or those

who represent science to the public.

However, what I observe in such science writing is not simply the

result of ignorance and arrogance but instead also often follows from

a particular assumption that is powerful but rarely explicitly stated.

This assumption is fallacious. It sounds like this: if science cannot

observe or discover something, then it cannot be real or true. Stated

slightly differently: the only things that could be true or real are those that science can observe and validate. This is what we call vulgar imperialistic scientism. (Not science but the ideology of scient ism.) And running at even deeper levels, driving imperialistic scientism, are the

prescientific presuppositions of naturalism, materialism, and empir-

icism. With all of these assumptions at work, science is turned from

(1) one fantastic way to know many things about ourselves and the

world into (2) an imperialistic, exclusivist, totalizing source of any and all legitimate knowledge about everything. All comers must enter by

the narrow gate of The Scientific Method if they hope to be welcomed

into the Kingdom of Knowledge. This very scientism is clearly re-

flected in the passages by Wilson, Stenger, Leakey, and Lewin quoted

here, which try to make “empirical data,” “massive and clear evidence,”

and “the fossil record” the sole adjudicators of God’s existence and a

purpose for the universe.

To spell this out a bit further, let’s return to Steven Weinberg’s

claims about the universe being pointless to see how this works.

93

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

He has repeated his view about the pointlessness of the universe in

other places. In one of them, he tel ingly says: “there is no point in

the universe that we discover by the methods of science. . . . [We

are] faced with this unloving, impersonal universe [and] we make

[in it any that there is] warmth and love . . . for ourselves.”10

I do not disagree with Weinberg’s first statement, that “there

is no point in the universe that we discover by the methods of

science.” Of course physics cannot discover a point to the uni-

verse any more than my kitchen thermometer could tell me what

emotions you are feeling inside. Weinberg’s statement about what

science cannot discover is obvious. But the problem is that he

concludes that because science cannot discover it, there actually

in fact is no point to the universe. That is silly. Simply because

physics cannot discover the universe’s possible point does not

mean there isn’t one. All that Weinberg’s conclusion really tells

us is that he comes to his argument operating with the working

presupposition of imperialistic scientism, that is, that if science

cannot observe or discover something, then it cannot be real or

true. If we reject that presupposition, as we should, then by other

means the universe might be found to have a point, a meaning, a

significance.

The bemusing irony in all of this is that the presupposition that

authorizes only science to tell us what is real and true, and that

produces such dramatic conclusions about the universe’s pointless-

ness, is not itself a scientific statement and could never, ever itself be validated by empirical science. It is instead a philosophical presupposition, something not unlike a faith commitment. The logic of im-

perialistic scientism, then, turns out to be internally self- defeating.

It depends on a nonscientific position to take the position that only

science authorizes us to take positions worth taking. And that is like

calling someone on the telephone to tell her that you cannot call her

94

w h Y s c I e n t I s t s P L AY I n G A M At e u r At h e o L o G Y fA I L

to talk because your telephone is not working. The very claim itself

shows that the claim cannot be correct.

A second irony here is that, in the name of hard- nosed intellec-

tual rigor, many such public- intellectual scientists show themselves

to be deeply confused about the basic nature of the religious ideas

they dismiss. For instance, the God of the Abrahamic traditions of

Judaism, Christianity, and Islam is by nature radically transcendent,

of an absolutely different order of being from creation, and so of

course is not subjectable to human empirical observation and ex-

perimentation. Any even half- educated believer in these traditions

knows that God cannot be subject to human empirical observation

and experimentation. So such scientists are essentially saying to re-

ligious people: “I am going to ignore your religion’s actual claims, which I am sure are dumb, and instead substitute my own caricature

of them; then I am going to dismiss my il - informed caricature as

failing to pass the test of my scientific standards, and then conclude

that your religion is not believable.” This we are supposed to take as

a model of intellectual rigor?

I rather think it is an embarrassment, of exactly the sort noted by

the British Marxist Roman Catholic literary critic Terry Eagleton,

whose London Review of Books review of Richard Dawkins’s book

The God Delusion begins thus:

Imagine someone holding forth on biology whose only knowl-

edge of the subject is the Book of British Birds, and you have

a rough idea of what it feels like to read Richard Dawkins on

theology. Card- carrying rationalists like Dawkins . . . are in one

sense the least well- equipped to understand what they casti-

gate, since they don’t believe there is anything there to be un-

derstood, or at least anything worth understanding. This is why

they invariably come up with vulgar caricatures of religious

95

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

faith that would make a first- year theology student wince. The

more they detest religion, the more ill- informed their criticisms

of it tend to be. If they were asked to pass judgment on phe-

nomenology or the geopolitics of South Asia, they would no

doubt bone up on the question as assiduously as they could.

When it comes to theology, however, any shoddy old travesty

will pass muster.11

Now, to be very clear, I am not saying that no religious claims

could be disproved by science, that all religious claims are somehow

protected from scientific scrutiny simply by virtue of being reli-

gious. No, in fact any religious claims that concern workings in this

observable world are potentially liable to scientific invalidation— if

and when science has the tools and evidence to evaluate them. If,

for example, a faith healer claimed to have cured someone’s cancer

but medical tests showed the cancer remaining, the faith healer’s

claim would be invalidated. If science could figure out a way to

send researchers back through a time machine to observe the few

days after Jesus’s crucifixion and made a video recording of the dis-

ciples stealing Jesus’s dead body from the tomb and then claiming

that Jesus had risen from the dead by the power of God, that would

put an end to all but the most demythologized liberal Christianity.

Or if historians with new empirical evidence were somehow able to

show beyond a reasonable doubt that the claims of Joseph Smith

about the revelations of the golden plates in the woods in upstate

New York were a hoax, that would sink Mormonism. Usually the

passage of time and the lack of evidence (or time machines) make

such scientific invalidations of religious claims impossible, for better or worse, even if in principle they would be possible. But my main

point here is a conceptual one: some religious claims about reality

96

w h Y s c I e n t I s t s P L AY I n G A M At e u r At h e o L o G Y fA I L

are in principle subject to scientific evaluation, and some— those in-

herently beyond science’s capacity to observe and analyze— simply

are not.

Now back to sociology. The fact that the kind of science writers

I have quoted blithely interlope in metaphysics and theology

without compunction and sometimes, it seems, even without

awareness that they are doing it, and that they usually get away with

it reflects not only ignorance and arrogance and scientistic ideology

but also the institutional fact that science has accumulated massive

cultural authority, status, and prestige in the public sphere, much

more than religion possesses. And, however much modern people,

including scientists, would like to believe that we operate purely ra-

tionally, we know that cultural status cognitively biases people’s ten-

dency to offer and accept beliefs generally, even erroneous beliefs.

Put differently: science is a dominant institution when it comes

to knowledge claims. And one of the privileges of dominance is not

having to learn and think as hard as one should when it comes to

making claims beyond one’s core competence. Peripheral voices,

by comparison, have got to think very hard about their claims if

they hope not to be dismissed as sectarian but instead to have their

ideas taken seriously by the mainstream. But when one is already, by

virtue of one’s great institutional status and authority, Taken Very

Seriously, one can afford to get a bit intellectually sloppy with one’s

claims and still get away with them.

Once all of these institutional forces get moving in the same di-

rection, the kind of public representatives of science I have quoted

can take advantage of and reinforce the following double standard:

1. On the one hand the religion of religious believers is a per-

sonal matter that must as subjective opinion be kept closeted

97

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

in private life, and certainly not be allowed to say anything

about science or education.

2. On the other hand in the hands of scientists, religion is a

public matter subject to reductionistic dismissals on the au-

thority of supposedly objective science.

In other words, viewed as turf struggles between science and re-

ligion, the science gang has gained nearly complete control of

the religion turf. Members of the religion gang may stay in their

neighborhood, as long as they keep off the streets. Then again, for

representatives of the more aggressive, New Atheist persuasion—

like Dawkins— the religion gang needs simply to surrender and

disappear.

Let us set this question of turf struggles in some historical context.

The institution of Western science has spent the last few centuries

working to establish its autonomy from religion, magic, hucksters, su-

perstition, and other cultural entities that it sees as making competing and erroneous claims about how the world works. That is, science has

struggled against perceived rivals— such as young- earth creationists

and defenders of intel igent design— to define a controlled turf of

knowledge- claims over which it has authorized, professional, insti-

tutional jurisdiction. And while, like most such struggles, this has

involved some unfortunate and embarrassing episodes— such as,

for example, mainstream science’s authorization of the eugenics

movement prior to World War II— I think, personally, as a believer in

science, that this has largely been a good and legitimate process.

And as part of that process, science has increasingly insisted

that— whether or not religion is a good and valid thing in and of

itself— religion should not try to make claims that do not belong

within the limits of its proper epistemological jurisdiction. Science’s

authority to tell us that we live in a heliocentric solar system, for

98

w h Y s c I e n t I s t s P L AY I n G A M At e u r At h e o L o G Y fA I L

example, ought not to be questioned by the possible religious claim,

based on misused scriptural evidence, that we live in a geocentric

solar system. (Here I refer to the Galileo affair, an incident that

looms large in the minds of most of science’s boundary police.)

Now, assuming that it is a fair demand of science that religion

should not intrude on science’s legitimate turf, I think it follows

that science, given its inherent limitations, should also not intrude

on religion’s legitimate turf when it lacks the competence to make

claims about metaphysical theology, as it almost always does. At the

very least, when science writers publicly pronounce on metaphysics

and theology, they should be obliged to satisfy two conditions. First,

they should learn enough about real metaphysics and religion to be

able to speak accurately and intel igently about them. And second,

they should make clear in their writing and speaking that they are

no longer making scientific claims but rather switching modes of discourse and epistemological frameworks to discuss metaphysics

or religion. To fail to do either of these I think is irresponsible and

deceptive.

But to be clear, we must observe that the situation here is more

complicated than science and religion simply needing to respect

each other’s turf, because the metaphor of turf and gangs implies

equal kinds of rivals fighting with the same sorts of weapons over

control of territory. In fact, that is exactly how the misguided writers I quote above seem to view reality, which enables them to think

that science can simply vanquish religion as a competitor. However,

my most important point here is that science and religion or meta-

physics are actually not equal rivals struggling with the same means

over identical turf. Instead they operate on different axes of thought

according to distinctive epistemological sources and standards.

So whether or not certain religious claims are actually true or

false, it is inherently beyond the scope of the proper competence

99

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

of science to address and judge most of them. Thus, when Harari

argues that “according to the science of biology, people were not

‘created.’ They have evolved,” he not only wrongly thinks that ev-

olution and creation are mutually exclusive but also fallaciously

assumes that biology is somehow actually equipped to disprove the

existence of a creator God.12 What is most fundamentally wrong

about the science writers I cite above, in other words, is not that

they are disrespecting a “rival gang’s turf” but that they are making a

basic category error in thinking in the first place that they can even

judge such religious claims with scientific tools.

Now, to be perfectly clear, I am not saying that science “owns”

“the facts” and religion is stuck with a crazy “leap of faith.” That

simple dichotomy is false too. Science is itself grounded on a set of

presuppositions that are ultimately taken on faith or not. And, as

Michael Polanyi has shown, scientific discovery is actually driven

not by strict adherence to some Method but by deeply personal,

prescientific commitments to human values like wonder, beauty,

and truth. Both science and religion are thus implicated in personal

belief commitments of various kinds, and to the evaluation of the

truth of those beliefs through the facts of lived experience. These

processes are not identical, but neither are they absolutely different.

However, the difference that does matter here is something like

this: science seeks to understand the natural workings of matter,

energy, life, the mind, and society that can be theoretically under-

stood through direct and indirect empirical observation, whereas

most religions seek to understand and engage either realities that

transcend creation, even if they interact with creation, such as a per-

sonal God (as in Abrahamic faiths), or realities that the immanent

material world actually obscures, such as the force of Brahman (as

in some forms of Hinduism and Buddhism). In both cases, even the

most powerful of science’s tools are constitutionally incompetent

100

w h Y s c I e n t I s t s P L AY I n G A M At e u r At h e o L o G Y fA I L

to penetrate and evaluate religion’s claims. These may be humanly

known, but if so it must be through means other than scientific ex-

periment, such as divine revelation or enlightenment, operating

with reason and experience.

One last thought about explaining scientists smuggling meta-

physical atheology into their science writing. I think when we get

down to it, a good part of what motivates many of these scientists to

reject God, religion, and other nonnaturalistic metaphysical views

are not really the findings of science but instead personal moral

and emotional objections. I do not wish to psychoanalyze atheists.

But many years of discussions and observation have suggested to

me that in many cases, if one scratches just below the surface of

many allegedly scientific objections to religion, one finds not scien-

tific problems but instead often very personal moral and emotional

concerns. These may be understandable, valid, and compel ing.

But let us be clear that they are not science. Some science writers

are more transparent than others. Consider, for example, Steven

Weinberg again, who in a 2003 interview said:

Maybe at the very bottom of it. . . . I really don’t like God. You

know, it’s silly to say I don’t like God because I don’t believe in

God, but in the same sense that I don’t like Iago . . . or any of

the other vil ains of literature, the god of traditional Judaism and

Christianity and Islam seems to me a terrible character. He’s a

god who [is] obsessed [with] the degree to which people worship

him and anxious to punish with the most awful torments those

who don’t worship him in the right way. The traditional God [is]

a terrible character. I don’t like him.13

Or take Edward O. Wilson’s moral objection to religion: that “faith

is the one thing that makes otherwise good people do bad things. . . .

101

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

The great religions are . . . tragically sources of ceaseless and un-

necessary suffering. They are impediments to the grasp of reality

needed to solve most social problems in the real world.”14 Again, we

can understand these personal moral and emotional objections to

religion (even if they are grossly overstated). But they are not good

science, or indeed science at all, and ought not to carry the weight

of scientific authority, even if those who personally feel such moral

objections and emotions are scientists professionally.

Before I finish, let me clarify two points. First, nothing I have

said here validates the truth claims of any religion. That is not my

point. All I have said is that science, by virtue of the inherent limits of what science is and does, cannot validate (or for that matter re-fute) atheism, a pointless universe, a nihilistic destruction of all

things human at the end of time, or any similar claim of metaphys-

ical atheology. And so scientists should not suggest otherwise. At

best, science can help to fill out a picture of the world and universe

we live in that contributes to our discerning judgments about the

plausibility of religious truth claims. And different people in good

faith can and do end up making different judgments about religion,

both believing and unbelieving. The fact that scientific evidence

underdetermines that outcome does not make anything about reli-

gion true. That is a separate question.

Second, it must be said that not all popular science writers play at

amateur metaphysics and theology. Some, such as the Johns Hopkins

University neuroscientist David Linden, are quite thoughtful and

careful in their views; Linden writes, for example, that “although the

details of particular religious texts are falsifiable, the core tenets of many religions . . . are not. Science cannot prove or disprove the central ideas underlying most religious thought. When scientists claim

to invalidate these core tenets of religious faith without the evidence

to do so, they do a disservice to both science and religion.”15 Other

102

w h Y s c I e n t I s t s P L AY I n G A M At e u r At h e o L o G Y fA I L

writers, although they are clearly antireligious, are also more careful

in the way they state their critiques. Such authors usually do clearly

throw the authoritative weight of science behind the idea that reli-

gion should go the way of the dinosaur. But at least they do so more

carefully, suggestively and not categorically, leaving open slight

possibilities that religious claims might actually have some truth

or value. Such more careful writers may actually be sociologically

more dangerous to religion, but intellectually we should respect

their more appropriate precision in presenting their views.

Here then is my bottom line. To all amateur scientific interlopers

into metaphysics and theology, I say this: stop overreaching. Please

stick to what you are good at, to science proper, and stop doing half-

baked philosophy and theology without even being clear that this is

what you are doing. At the very least, learn enough to be able to dis-

tinguish between properly scientific, philosophical, and theological

claims. Then, if you really want to make public claims about meta-

physics and theology, first learn enough about the philosophy and

religion you are engaging to speak accurately and intel igently about

them, so as not to embarrass yourself. And while you are at it, please

think harder about the presuppositions of naturalism, materialism,

and empiricism that drive you into narrow imperialistic scientism.

They are seriously problematic. Hopefully you will then realize that

science qua science is constitutionally incapable of disproving the

possible reality of what is most important in most religions: whether

that be the God of Abraham, Saint Paul, Muhammad, or Zoroaster

or karma, samsara, reincarnation, or nirvana. Let’s have good, rigorous arguments about science and religion. But let’s have ones that

are wel - informed, fruitfully constructive when possible, and fair

and honest when they must be critically destructive.

103





Chapter 4

Are Humans Naturally Religious?



Are human beings somehow naturally religious?1 Should we take

religion to be in some way an innate, instinctive, or inevitable as-

pect of human consciousness, experience, and life? Or is religion

a nonessential, historically contingent aspect of human being?

Various thinkers in different places in history and life have offered

different answers to these questions without coming to agreement.

I hope here to answer them in a way that incorporates some pre-

vious thinking yet moves toward a more realistic and helpful under-

standing. My answer to these questions is shaped by the philosophy

of critical realism, which I think helps us do better social science

than other options, especially positivist empiricism and post-

modern deconstructionism. Is it possible that people and societies

could become thoroughly secular, as many atheists hope? Or is that

just “not in the cards” of human nature?

These are not merely issues of academic curiosity. The truth

about religion and human being carries big implications for how our

personal and social life should be properly ordered. Some answers

to the questions imply positions about the truth value of religious

and secular claims about reality. Answers and arguments about

them are also bound up with massive alternative historical projects

that seek to shape social orders today and into the future— by this

105

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

I mean everything from movements for secular modernism to re-

ligious theocracies. These include the Enlightenment project of a

rational, secular modernity and various religious projects to build

a modernity that socially accommodates, if it does not center, reli-

gious worldviews. The futures of some civilizations around the globe

are today being contested by movements that are underpinned by

different answers to the questions posed above. Many atheists today

are pushing hard to eliminate religion from human life.

The stakes are high for implications in public policy, institu-

tional practices, and deep cultural formation over time. Not surpris-

ingly, many of the players in the discussions, including academics,

have personal, ideological, moral, and emotional investments in the

issues at hand. However, as we participate in the shared project of

(from a critical realist perspective, at least) seeking to know what is

true about what is real, we must let the best available evidence and

best thinking about it determine our conclusions, not what we wish

or hope to be true because of personal ideological or theological

commitments.



frAMInG the QuestIon

It is impossible to understand current debates without knowing

something of the history of their emergence during the break-

down of Western Christendom over the last 500 years. I commend

Brad Gregory’s book The Unintended Reformation: How a Religious

Revolution Secularized Society, which provides an illuminating background for my discussion.2

Suffice it to say for present purposes that both the Catholic

Church and the Protestant reformers assumed and argued that God

had planted in all humans an innate capacity and desire to know,

106

A r e h u M A n s n At u r A L LY r e L I G I o u s ?

love, and serve God— a capacity that, however, had been more

or less marred by the effects of sin. So in the West there is a long

theological history to these questions, which over time have been

transposed into social science and philosophy debates. Notions

of “human nature” in the West cannot be understood apart from

their background in Christian theology’s discussions of humans’

orientation to God, sin, human sociability, moral virtues, and so

on. The skeptical Enlightenment’s project— to reconstitute social

order on rational, secular, scientific grounds rather than on the

basis of religion— not only polemicized against religion but force-

fully denied that religion was an essential or ineradicable aspect

of human nature.3 These views helped establish some of the deep

cultural assumptions underlying this discussion today. The aca-

demic study of religion (itself in part a product of secular modernity

reconfiguring academic departments of theology) has been split on

the question of religion and human nature. Many influential older

scholars (such as Rudolf Otto, Wil iam James, and Mircea Eliade)

argued, in a quasi- liberal Protestant mode, that an awareness of and

magnetic attraction to “the holy,” “the numinous,” “the sacred,” “ulti-

mate concerns,” and so on was native to human consciousness, thus

locating the naturalness of religion in human subjective experience.4

More recently, other theorists— postcolonial and postmodern—

have argued that “religion” as an entity actually does not exist be-

yond the relatively recent, contingent constructions of Western

modernity, thus calling into question the very idea of “religion” and

essentially dissolving the discipline’s subject of study.5 (I find nei-

ther of these approaches persuasive, even if they contribute some

useful ideas and perspectives.)6

Some sociologists of religion, such as Andrew Greeley, Daniel

Bel , Rodney Stark, Robert Bel ah, and Don Miller, have suggested

variously that humans are inherently “unsecular”; that only religion

107

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

answers well the most profound of humanity’s existential questions

and is therefore an ineliminable feature of human cultures; that

humans wish for benefits that can only be obtained through

exchanges with supernatural beings believed to exist in otherworldly

contexts; that humans have an innate yearning for ecstasy and tran-

scendence; and so on.7 On the other hand different theorists—

including Bryan Wilson, Steve Bruce, the early Peter Berger, Pippa

Norris and Ronald Inglehart, and Phil Zuckerman— imply or argue

that religion is the contingent product of certain historical and so-

cial conditions that can, may, or do dramatically diminish and per-

haps ultimately disappear when social conditions change under the

conditions of modernity.8



the evIdence

So what ought we to think? The empirical data tell us four facts.

First, very many individual people in the world are nonreligious,

and certain entire cultures appear to be quite secular, without im-

mediate apparent damage to human happiness or functionality.

Not all people and societies are religious or apparently have to be

in order to remain contented and functional. That suggests that reli-

gion is in some sense not natural to human being but an accidental

or inessential aspect characterizing only some humans.

Second, religion generally is not fading away in the modern

world as a whole;9 and even the most determined attempts by pow-

erful states to repress and extinguish religion (e.g., in Russia, China, revolutionary France, etc.) have been less than entirely successful.10

In addition to appearing to be primordial in human history,11 as well

as present in one form or another in all civilizations, religion thus

also seems to be incredibly resilient, incapable perhaps of being

108

A r e h u M A n s n At u r A L LY r e L I G I o u s ?

destroyed or terminated. That suggests that religion is in some sense

irrepressibly natural to human being.

Third, even when traditionally religious forms of human life seem

to fade, new and alternative forms of life often seem to appear in their places that also engage the sacred, the spiritual, the transcendent, the liturgical, the implicitly religious, and the ecstatic. Many observers

have noted, not incorrectly I think, that a vast variety of seemingly

nonreligious human activities embody and express at least quasi-

religious, if not overtly spiritual, features. New Age ideas and claims

to be “spiritual but not religious” are obvious cases. Scholars have

also noted the religious dimensions of organizations, movements,

and practices as different as “secular” environmentalism, academic

economics, modern nation- states, and arena sports spectacles.12 It is

also hard to miss the presence of superhuman powers, supernatural

realities, and spiritual themes in some of the most popular contem-

porary films, fiction, and television shows.13 Furthermore, a va-

riety of arguably religious practices— besides the typical Protestant mode of centralized belief and resulting practices— are clearly involved in even traditional religious faiths, including things like what

scholars call “vicarious religion,” “believing without belonging,”

and myriad manifestations of “everyday religion.”14 This evidence

suggests (though hardly proves) that religion may be in some sense

irrepressibly natural to human being.

The fourth fact worth noting is that different people and peo-

ples can and do head in quite different directions when it comes

to religion. No one narrative or trajectory tel s the whole story.

There may simply not be a dominant story. At best, scholars can

note and interpret broad patterns and associations. But the out-

come of religion in human social life is highly dependent upon the

particularities of history and context. That suggests that if religion

is in any way natural to human being, which is not certain, then

109

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

whatever it means to be “natural” has to allow for a great deal of

variability and contingency.

What should we make of these four empirical facts, which do

not at first seem to produce one consistent conclusion? I believe it

is possible to frame a theoretical account of religion and humanity

that does justice to all of the evidence above. But getting to that

account requires sorting out some basic issues first.



ProPerLY defInInG the Issues

The kind of theoretical account needed to make the best sense of

the evidence will have to proceed, I am convinced, with critical re-

alism, and not positivist empiricism, operating in the background

as the guiding philosophy. Many of our problems and failures in so-

cial science result from research being framed by positivist empiri-

cism, which asks us to suppose that social reality normally operates

according to something like “covering laws” that can be expressed in

this form:

if A → (probably) B (all else being equal)

Positivist empiricism tel s us to look for regular associations be-

tween observable empirical events and defines “explanation” as

the identification of the strongest, most significant associations

between them. It also sets the expectation that once the covering

laws have been identified, they will apply to all cases and situations

that the laws govern— this is usually assumed, if only by default, to

mean “people” generally. All of that gets researchers thinking in yes/

no, either/ or, correct/ false terms (modified, however, by the intro-

duction of statistical probabilities and the ceteris paribus clause).

Applied to the question at hand, the debate normally proceeds on

110

A r e h u M A n s n At u r A L LY r e L I G I o u s ?

the unquestioned assumption either that humans are naturally reli-

gious (and so religion will always persist in human societies) or are

not naturally religious (and so modernity may or will profoundly

secularize people and society).

Critical realism reconstructs many of our basic assumptions,

tel ing us to ask different questions, and thus opening up new,

helpful possibilities of understanding and explanation. Here is not

the place to explain critical realism in detail.15 For present purposes, I want to focus on its emphasis on natural capacities, powers, limitations, tendencies, and contingencies. According to critical realism,

myriad kinds of real entities exist, each of which possesses particular

innate characteristics.

For our purposes here, the following points are crucial. First,

real entities with essential properties exist in reality, often inde-

pendent of human mental activity. Second, real entities possess cer-

tain innate capacities and powers, existing at a “deep” level of reality, that only under certain conditions are activated so as to realize their

potential. This means that certain natural features of entities can be

entirely real but at times inoperative and unobserved. Third, when

the causal energies of entities are released in particular cases, they

are neither determined nor determining, neither absolutely predict-

able nor random, neither chaotic nor incomprehensible.

Fourth, the social scientific task is not to discover the covering

laws that explain and predict observable associations of conditions

and events (“if A → [probably] B [ceteris paribus]”). The task rather

is for our theorizing minds to use all available empirical evidence

and powers of reason to develop conceptual models that as accu-

rately as possible descriptively represent the real causal processes

operating at a “deeper,” unobservable level of reality, through the

agency of real causal mechanisms that produce changes in the mate-

rial and nonmaterial world (some of which) we observe empirically.

111

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

Fifth, we must always pay close attention to the environmental

and contextual factors that do and do not activate the causal

capacities and powers of different entities, which then produce a va-

riety of possible, sometimes- observable outcomes. In all of this, we

have to be ready to deal with major complexity.

Having sketched these few key ideas from critical realism, our

next task is to define “religion.” This has been a matter of ongoing

and vexing dispute among scholars. I define “religion” as “a complex

of culturally prescribed practices that are based on premises about

the existence and nature of superhuman powers.”16 These powers

may be personal or impersonal, but they are always superhuman,

in the dual sense that they can do things humans cannot do and

that they do not depend for their existence on human activities.

Religious people engage in practices intended to gain access to and

communicate or align themselves with these superhuman powers.

Their primary hope in doing so, I believe, is to avert misfortune, ob-

tain blessings, and receive deliverance from crises in this life and perhaps after death.17 People are religious, on this view, in order to tap

those superhuman powers to help them avert and solve problems

they confront— from getting hurt or sick to suffering a bad exist-

ence after death. This substantive definition of religion provides

traction for identifying when religion is present or absent, stronger

or weaker, in human life. It does not focus on religious beliefs but on

religious practices. That complicates the picture described by those,

like Zuckerman, who observe that highly secularized societies are

often “without God” though “not without religion.”

Finally, to answer our questions wel , we have to clarify what we

mean by “naturally” and by “nature.” It turns out that “nature” is dif-

ficult to define. I here spare the reader the details of the problems

involved and simply assert that critical realism provides the most

sensible way to proceed. By “nature,” as related to something

112

A r e h u M A n s n At u r A L LY r e L I G I o u s ?

like “human nature,” I as a realist mean the stably characteristic

properties, capacities, and tendencies of human beings. Specific

entities in reality are what they are and not other things. These

possess certain features, causal powers, and dispositions (and not

others) that adhere in their being. These properties, capacities, and

tendencies inhere in the entity itself.

Everything in reality has some kind of nature, in this sense, in-

sofar as entities possess and so can express particular characteristics, capacities, and tendencies by virtue of simply being what they are. It

is in the nature of real entities to have certain features, causal powers, and dispositions that distinguish them from other entities that they

are not. When such features, causal powers, and disposition are not

accidental, random, or unstable characteristics of an entity, but in-

stead typify the entity in ways that are stable and commonly shared

by all entities of that type, we can refer to them as their “nature.”

This approach recognizes that many parts of reality are neither (en-

tirely) humanly constructed nor readily susceptible to intentional

change. Different parts of reality have different inherent features,

causal powers, and dispositions by virtue of the nature of what they

are. Reality itself, therefore, has a certain structure or “grain” in its features, abilities, tendencies, and operations, which one can work

either with or against, with varying consequences.



A crItIcAL reALIst Account

With the foregoing clarifications in view, I propose the following

answer to the question of whether or not humans are by nature re-

ligious. I begin by stating my position negatively. First, humans are

not by nature religious, if by that we mean that all human persons

are driven by some natural and irrepressible need or instinct or

113

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

desire to be religious. In that sense, some humans are religious, and

some are not, often quite happily and functionally so, it appears.

Thus, to begin, the answer is no if the question refers to a universal

demand for religion operating at the level of individual persons.

Second, humans are not by nature religious, if by that we mean

that every human culture has a functional need or intractable impulse

to make religion a centrally defining feature of society. Societies,

like individuals, vary in how important a role religion plays in their

lives. Some are highly religious. Others are quite secular, with reli-

gion operating on the margins, in private or in secret, far from the

institutional centers of material and legitimate- knowledge produc-

tion and distribution. At most we might say that total irreligion and

complete secularity appear to be impossible among humans at the

societal level. But that is a long way from saying that humans are

naturally religious.

That said, I do believe that human beings are naturally religious

when that is understood in a particular way. All human persons are

naturally religious if by that we mean that they possess a complex

set of innate features, capacities, powers, limitations, and tendencies

that capacitate them to be religious (i.e., to think, perceive, feel, imagine, desire, and act religiously) and that, under the right conditions (which are very common in human experience), strongly tend to

predispose and direct them toward practicing and believing religion.

The natural religiousness of humanity is not located in a naturally

determined common pattern of empirical religious practice, on the

part of individuals or societies (which is how positivist empiricism

would focus our attention). It is instead located in the distinctive,

inherent features, capacities, powers, limitations, and tendencies of

human persons that are rooted, ultimately, in the human body and

brain and the emergent (often nonmaterial) capacities that arise

from the body and brain.

114

A r e h u M A n s n At u r A L LY r e L I G I o u s ?

I am speaking here of very powerful causal forces and

dispositions that are rooted in the nature of reality and are chron-

ically triggered to become operative in human life in a variety of

social contexts. That helps to explain religion’s primordial, irrepress-

ible, widespread, and seemingly inextinguishable character. It also

suggests that the skeptical Enlightenment, secular humanist, and

New Atheist visions for a totally secular human world are simply

not realistic— they are cutting against a very strong “grain” in the

structure of reality and so will fail to achieve their purpose.

But that is not the whole story. Humans being “religious by na-

ture” in this sense does not tell us to expect the eventual “return

of religion” everywhere or that people will be unable to function

reasonably well in the absence of religion. Neither does it license

observers to decide that nonreligious people are really “anony-

mous” religious believers or somehow pathological or subhuman

in their lack of religiousness. Nonreligious humans, like all persons,

possess the natural capacities and tendencies toward religion but,

for whatever reasons, have either (1) not had those capacities and

tendencies activated by environmental, experiential triggers in the

first place, or (2) had them activated but subsequently neutralized

or deactivated by some other experienced causal forces.

I have written at length about such natural human features,

capacities, powers, limitations, and tendencies in What Is a

Person?: Understanding Humanity, Social Life, and the Good from the

Person Up.18 For present purposes, suffice it to say that they start at the “bottom” with capacities for consciousness and unconsciousness, work upward emerging through a variety of increasingly

complex and sophisticated capacities and powers, and culminate

with the highest- level capacities of language, symbolization, val-

uation, creativity and innovation, understanding of causation,

self- reflexivity, creating and communicating meanings, narration,

115

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

anticipating the future, identity formation, self- transcendence, truth

seeking, abstract reasoning, moral awareness, aesthetic judgment,

forming virtues, and interpersonal communion and love. These nat-

ural capacities dispose humans to an immense number and variety

of activities and practices.

Among them are the abilities and, when activated, tendencies to

(1) conceptualize and believe in superhuman powers; (2) engage

in activities designed to seek help from superhuman powers (such

as prayer, worship, sacrifice, and obedience); (3) anticipate alterna-

tive futures related to the superhuman powers, dependent in part

on courses of action taken regarding those powers; (4) subjectively

experience communion, union, harmony with or affirmation from

superhuman powers; (5) engage in social relationships that rein-

force belief in the reality of the superhuman powers; (6) learn to

interpret the larger world and experience in light of the beliefs as-

sociated with the superhuman powers. Crucial in all of this are the

capacities for symbolization and language.19 At the same time, those

capacities run into major contradictions when they “hit the wall” of

natural human limitations and constraints. Religion arises out of the

dynamic tension generated by the confrontation of humans’ natural

capacities and limitations, where what humans can do and what we

cannot do col ide.

What exactly do I mean by natural tendencies toward reli-

gion? I mean the propensities caused by an interconnected set of

orientations toward life and the world that humans recurrently ex-

perience. In some sense we are here speaking about “the human

condition,” but not one that is vaguely existentialist. The human

condition I mean emerges directly from the innate features of

the human body as it operates in its material and nonmaterial

environment20— particularly from the col ision between its natural

powers and its natural limitations. At the same time, this human

116

A r e h u M A n s n At u r A L LY r e L I G I o u s ?

condition is not absolutely determined and determining— there

is space for the consequences of the somewhat free play of human

desires, emotions, and beliefs.

The first of these natural tendencies toward religion springs

from our universal human epistemic condition. In the final analysis,

all humans are believers generally, not knowers with certitude, with

respect to what is real. This point I have argued at length in Moral, Believing Animals: Human Personhood and Culture and will not repeat here.21 It is enough to say that everything we humans ever “know”

is grounded on presuppositions that are the necessary conditions

to get inquiry, perception, and knowledge- building off the ground.

And those beliefs simply cannot be verified with proof that assures

us with certainty that they are true and right. All humans are thus

believers before and more basically than we are knowers.

That is as true for atheists as for religious adherents. In the end,

none of us can find and build upon certain, indubitable truths that

are not dependent upon more basic presupposed beliefs (what

philosophers call an attempt at “foundationalist” knowledge).

This quest for foundationalist certainty, with which we are likely

familiar, is a distinctly modern project that was launched as a

response to the instabilities and uncertainties of early modern

Europe, with Descartes its pioneer. But that modern philosoph-

ical foundationalist project has failed. There is no universal, ra-

tional foundation upon which indubitably certain knowledge

can be built. All human knowing is built on believing. That is the

human condition. And that means that religious commitment

is not fundamentally different, at bottom, from all other human

belief commitments, insofar as religion involves trust in and re-

sponse to believed- in realities that are not objectively verifiable or

universally shared by all reasonable people. Religious believing is

thus not at odds with the broad trajectory of all human believing.

117

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

And that helps to incline people, under the right conditions, to-

ward religion.

A second feature of the human condition that gives rise to a ten-

dency toward religion concerns the capacity to recognize and the

desire to solve problems. Following my definition of religion above,

we see that religion has its deepest roots in the desire to avert, fore-

stall, and resolve real and perceived problems. Among all the animal

species on this earth, humans, their lives being so very complex, are

particularly likely to encounter a wide variety of material, bodily,

psychological, and social problems. Humans are also particularly

well capacitated to recognize problems, define them as problems,

and desire to overcome them.

Finally, because humans are so very finite in their capacities, they

are likely to encounter problems that they have limited or no power

to solve. Human capacities to know what is happening in life often

outstrip human power to control it. Very often, yawning chasms

stand between people’s problems and their abilities to solve them.

Yet humans find it difficult to ignore their problems. When the pros-

pect of a helpful superhuman power is present, it is quite natural

for humans to be interested in the possibility of appealing to those

powers to help avert or resolve their problems (unless some other

stronger causal power neutralizes that interest).22 Comparatively,

the “hamster condition” and even the “chimpanzee condition” are

not like that, and they are naturally not capacitated for or tending

toward religion.

The human condition also lends itself to the tendency toward

religious engagement. Humans recurrently ask and wrestle with

what Brad Gregory has called the “Life Questions”: “What should

I live for and why? What should I believe and why should I believe

it? What is morality and where does it come from? What kind of

person should I be? What is the meaning of life, and what should

118

A r e h u M A n s n At u r A L LY r e L I G I o u s ?

I do in order to lead a fulfil ing life?”23 Daniel Bell similarly noted

a set of questions that, he argued, call humans back to religion in

order to answer wel , namely, “the core questions that confront all

human groups in the consciousness of existence: how one meets

death, the meaning of tragedy, the nature of obligation, the char-

acter of love— these are recurrent questions which are, I believe,

cultural universals, to be found in all societies where men have be-

come conscious of the finiteness of existence.”24

Humans have both incredible capacities and severe limits, and

that contradiction continually produces pressing difficulties. We

have the capacity to know we will die but not to know what comes

after. We tend to seek truth, goodness, and beauty but find little

of it in this world and often in ourselves. We are meaning- making

and significance- seeking animals, yet our ability to spin satisfying

meanings solely from within the horizons of the immanent world

we occupy is limited. Historically, religion has been a primary way

that humans have answered these questions, and I am confident that

for many people it will continue to be.

But this is also crucial to realize: religion is not the only way for

humans to answer these big Life Questions and live seemingly func-

tional, happy lives. The human condition does not require people to

be religious. Indeed, not all people feel the need to address and an-

swer such questions— many appear happy to focus on the present,

live as well as they can, and not be bothered by the Big Questions,

including the problem of death. At the same time, however, the

capacity to respond to the human condition in terms that are not

religious does not mean that that this existential condition does

not exist. It does. We are dealing with causal forces that need to

be activated and with tendencies, not with perfect associations or

necessities. And such forces and tendencies are shaped by particular

historical and social conditions and experiences.25

119

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

Finally, the human moral condition inescapably involves the

making of “strong evaluations” (in Charles Taylor’s words),26

based on moral beliefs that we take to arise not from our personal

preferences and desires but from sources transcending them. It is

simply un natural, in the strongest sense of that word, for humans to think that morality is nothing but a charade, that even the asking of

moral questions is wrong- headed, that all moral claims are nothing

but relative human constructions. Friedrich Nietzsche attempted

some version of this, but he could not finally escape the necessity

of arguing that some things were in fact true, that some positions

were actually right— which is why he wrote his powerful works to

convince his readers of his views. His “transvaluation” of all values

ended up committing him to certain truth claims and senses of nor-

mative good and bad. “Slave morality” was bad, for instance, while

the morality of the noble warrior was good.

Humans thus find themselves having to operate with some

account of where morality comes from, what makes it real. Some

people are clearly able to submerge such questions below the level

of consciousness. But the questions recur in cultures and social

groups, if not in the lives of individual persons. Religions are not

the only answer to the question of moral sources, but historically

they have been foundational and central 27 Secular modernity is ar-

guably radically incoherent and self- deceived on matters of moral

philosophy.28 Most people are not moral philosophers, who have a

professional interest in intellectual consistency, but the questions

themselves never disappear. They return again and again in the

course of human experience over time.29 This, too, under the right

conditions, I suggest, triggers human capacities to be disposed to

religious answers and practices.

But how, critics might ask, can we distinguish genuine, natural

human tendencies from any other factor that might produce one

120

A r e h u M A n s n At u r A L LY r e L I G I o u s ?

or another human activity? One way to sort this out is to consider

how relatively easy or hard it is for natural human capacities to be

expressed in particular ways. The harder people have to work to

produce something in human life, the less likely it is that humans

have a natural tendency for it. It is a natural tendency, for example,

for people to use their capacity for muscle motion in their legs and

arms to walk and to feed themselves, but not to crab- walk backward

or repeatedly hit themselves in the head. Across human history

and societies, it is possible to find a dizzying array of expressions of human potentials. But some of them are rare and difficult to achieve,

while others are common and easy.

Viewed broadly (not just thinking of modern Europe), religion

tends to fall into the latter category. In most historical situations, it has not been hard for people and cultures to come to believe, embrace, practice, and pass on religions to subsequent generations. It

has been much, much harder to extinguish them.

In fact, it usually takes some combination of potent religion-

undermining experiences, like many decades of sustained ideo-

logical attacks (as with skeptical Enlightenment polemicists), the

trauma of demoralizing wars (as in the early modern so- called

“wars of religion”),30 religiously significant atrocities (such as the

Holocaust), sustained internal religious conflicts (as in Europe after

the Protestant Reformation), or purposive state repression (such as

Soviet- enforced atheism), to suppress human religious practices.

And even then the outcome is not certain. All of this tel s us some-

thing: that humans not only have the capacity to be religious, like

the capacity for anything else humans can do, including rare and

difficult things, but also those capacities are directed by strong,

natural tendencies that turn them toward religious expression. In

short, humans not only have latent potential for religion but also

very strong natural tendencies toward practicing religion. That

121

At h e I s t o v e r r e A c h

contributes to my argument that, understood in a particular way,

humans are naturally religious.

My argument can be summarized as follows. Simply because

some feature of human being is natural, that does not mean that

it always is or needs to be expressed, acted upon, or found neces-

sary or attractive to all humans or to most humans in any particular

culture. Many natural features and capacities in reality, including

human reality, are not often activated. Others are activated but sub-

sequently countered or neutralized by other factors.

We can confidently say that humans are naturally religious or

by nature religious— as a matter of real, natural potential, capacity,

and tendency— while at the same time acknowledging that many

humans and even some cultures are not particularly religious at all.31

Such an account entails many implications, theoretical and prac-

tical, worth considering. But it strongly suggests that we should not

expect human societies to become thoroughly secularized on any

long- term basis.32 Secularization as a process will likely be limited, contingent, and susceptible to reversal. The New Atheist dream of a

fundamentally secular world will prove illusory.

122





Conclusion



Many atheists today make bold claims about morality, science, and

the naturalness of secular life. Atheists can be “good without God,”

they insist, just as good as, if not better than, religious people.

Atheism and the metaphysically naturalistic cosmos it heralds

can sustain the received humanistic heritage of universal benevo-

lence and human rights. Atheism is the clear truth as demonstrated

by the evidence of empirical science. And a secular existence is

within reach of humanity if only people would leave behind the

superstitions of religion. Such claims are common among atheist

activists. They have to be. For if atheism is not compatible with

moral excellence, universal benevolence, human rights, the au-

thority of science, and basic human nature, then its attractiveness is

significantly diminished.

I believe these atheists are overreaching in all of those claims.

They are not absolutely wrong. But they are overplaying their hand,

trying to claim more for their viewpoint than reason and empir-

ical evidence justify. Such overreaching must be called out. The

issues involved are too important to let such unsupportable claims

stand. Atheism will not benefit in the long run by staking out strong

positions that do not hold up to scrutiny.

123

c o n c L u s I o n



cLAIMs And cLArIfIcAtIons

To be clear, let me restate what I am not claiming here. I am not

arguing that atheism is wrong. I am not arguing that theism is

right. I am not saying that atheists have no reason to behave eth-

ically. I am not suggesting that atheism leads to moral nihilism.

I am not saying that science is incompatible with atheism. I am

not suggesting that all people are somehow covertly religious.

And I am not saying that secular people and cultures cannot live

happy, meaningful lives. Nothing I argue in this book makes or

even suggests those claims.

What I have argued and concluded is this: atheists have good

reasons to adhere to a modest or moderately demanding morality

based on enlightened self- interest and buttressed by social compacts

and the punishment of defectors. But that kind of moral standard,

if it is self- reflective and intellectually honest, ought not to expect people to provide equal treatment for all other humans, but rather

ought to expect people to privilege those who are socially closest

to them; and it will always be vulnerable to the doubts of moral

skeptics and the exploits of “sensible knaves” who ethically free ride

on others who are consistently good. This I think is as much ethi-

cally as atheism can justify.

Furthermore, the naturalistic cosmos that is the standard op-

erating worldview of atheism cannot with rational warrant justify

the received humanistic belief in universal benevolence and human

rights. Historically in the West, those very demanding commitments

germinated in the soil of theism were later transplanted into the reli-

giously mixed grounds of the Enlightenment, flowered in the twen-

tieth century after World War II, and diffused culturally through a

variety of nonreligious and religious movements and institutions.

124

c o n c L u s I o n

Considered rationally, metaphysical naturalism is simply not a

worldview that independently possesses the intellectual resources

to warrant a commitment to benevolence afforded and human

rights honored for all humans everywhere. If naturalism is true,

therefore, the future of universal benevolence and human rights

stands in jeopardy.

Moreover, contrary to some atheists’ claims, science in no way

demonstrates empirically or even by “inference to the best explana-

tion” that the kind of transcendent God of the Abrahamic traditions

of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam does not exist. Atheists who

maintain otherwise exhibit an inexcusably misguided under-

standing of both science and religions. A proper reading of these

matters rightly concludes that science is inherently incapable of

proving or disproving God’s possible existence. Overreaching

atheists who are intellectually honest should moderate their claims

that science empirically verifies their beliefs.

Finally, contrary to an atheist hope that human societies might

readily become secular, human beings turn out to be strongly dis-

posed to believe and practice religion. Humans are not naturally

religious in the sense that religion is inevitable in human lives

and social institutions. But we are naturally religious in the sense

of possessing by nature not only the complex capacities but also

the recurrent, strong inclinations to cognize, believe, and observe

religious ideas and practices. Human societies and subcultures

around the world are highly variable when it comes to religion and

nonreligion. But atheists have little reason to be confident that

human societies are on a path toward steadily increasing secular-

ization. Atheist overreaching has tried in various ways to deny or

ignore these realistic conclusions, which accomplishes little good

for anyone.

125

c o n c L u s I o n



ArIstotLe IGnored

The first half of this book is about the ethical possibilities avail-

able to atheism. While working through atheists’ arguments for

being “good without God,” I was surprised and baffled by their

near total lack of interest in Aristotle. The atheists I read wanted to

provide a sound basis for ethical living in a universe absent a tran-

scendent divinity. To this end they continually relied upon various

amalgamations of social contract theory, Kantian rationalism, and

utilitarianism, often bolstered by generous helpings of undue opti-

mism. I have attempted to show that their efforts do not succeed, at

least in justifying what I called a strong or high standard of morality.

While working through their arguments, however, I kept wondering

why they never turned to Aristotle for help. Aristotle seems very

well suited for their task.

What does Aristotle offer atheist ethics? To be sure, like Kant,

Aristotle cannot be imported directly into atheism, since he, like

Kant, developed his ethics against the backdrop of a belief in the ex-

istence of God.1 Even so, Aristotle’s ethics can, I think, be adjusted

and deployed in an atheist universe— and more persuasively, I be-

lieve, than the alternatives.2

Aristotelian virtue ethics reference the universal human desire

to realize the rewards of a good life well lived ( eudaimonia). The ultimate motive to learn and practice the virtues is to achieve what

is by nature inherently and inescapably good for all humans: their

own thriving and happiness. The problem of providing reasonable

moral skeptics and sensible knaves a justified motivation to observe

in practice the moral good, even when it is costly, is thus eliminated.

The atheist activists I examined could never on Kantian, utilitarian,

and social- contract grounds adequately solve that motivation

problem. Aristotle solves it for them.

126

c o n c L u s I o n

Furthermore, Aristotle’s ethics are not unrealistically demanding

or naïvely optimistic. They never lead us down the path of wishful

thinking about human goodness, onto which some atheist writers

wander. Aristotelian ethics do not expect people to become shining

angels or selfless altruists. It instructs humans in how to realize our

natures as the particular kind of animals we are and possibly thus

to achieve happy and flourishing lives. That to me seems very well

suited for the human condition as understood to exist in an atheist

universe.

Aristotelian ethics can form people, including those who believe

they live in a godless cosmos, and motivate them to learn and to

practice important and admirable moral virtues: prudence, courage,

temperance, liberality, magnificence, magnanimity, proper ambi-

tion, pride in self, patience, good temper, truthfulness, wittiness,

friendliness, modesty, and so on. These virtues may not propel

people to the moral humanitarian heights of egalitarian sharing,

universal benevolence, and the protected human rights of all people.

But, by my lights, if most of humanity “only” managed to master

Aristotelian virtues, that would be a huge moral achievement. And

in the process, Aristotelian atheists could enjoy knowing that their

arguments for being “good without God” were intellectually honest

and rationally warranted.

Why then do atheists— at least those I engage in this book—

ignore Aristotle? If he is the promising atheist ally I have described,

why does he not show up on their radar screens? I do not know. I do,

however, have a few hunches. These may or may not be correct, but

perhaps they are worth mentioning.

Contemporary atheists are creatures of Enlightenment moder-

nity (and some perhaps of postmodernism). So they feel much at

home with the likes of Kant, Mil , and Bentham and sometimes with

sanitized versions of Nietzsche. Aristotle is an ancient figure from

127

c o n c L u s I o n

the classical Mediterranean world. He also played a central role in the

Thomistic theological synthesis of high medieval Christendom. His

teleological natural philosophy was forcefully expunged from early

modern science in the seventeenth century and has been disdained

for centuries. For those reasons, Aristotle may seem to contempo-

rary atheists alien and suspect. However, Aristotelian virtue ethics

have enjoyed a resurgence of interest and influence in recent decades.

Why hasn’t that shown up in atheist arguments about ethics?

One reason may be that Aristotle does not buy them the very

high moral standards they want to be able to promise and deliver on.

What I view as an advantage of Aristotle for atheist ethics— namely,

its substantial but not unrealistic moral aspirations— simply may

not satisfy atheists. If so, then such atheists are making the nearly

perfect the enemy of the attainable good. They are shooting for eth-

ical heights they cannot ascend or defend, rather than accepting ad-

mirable but more realistic possibilities. That hardly comports with

most atheists’ self- image as unflinching realists, nor will it prove to be helpful to anyone over time.

I can think of another possible reason why Aristotle’s ethics may

not sit well with contemporary atheists. As Enlightenment moderns

(and sometimes postmoderns), most atheists seem committed to

helping emancipate individuals to live unconstrained lives of self-

directed autonomy. That, of course, demands behaving ethically

so that other individuals can also live free too. But it appears to

me that individual autonomy through emancipation remains for

most atheists the highest good, because freedom is believed to pro-

duce happiness. Without God to love and obey, individual human

freedom becomes paramount; and whatever social conditions are

necessary to maintain it (such as communities of morally good

people) become an instrumental necessity. Each person should be

able to determine her or his own individual telos.

128

c o n c L u s I o n

Aristotle is not about emancipation and autonomy— at least not

as Enlightenment moderns understand it. For Aristotle, the highest

good is not freedom but happiness. And achieving happiness,

he says, requires not emancipation from external influences but

learning how to comport oneself well amid the naturally given forces

and constraints that operate in our material, biological, and social

realities. Aristotle says that true happiness comes when novices

submit themselves to the authority of and follow the examples of

those more accomplished in the virtues— to masters, who can teach

through long and hard practice the dispositions, habits, and char-

acter necessary to realize proper human ends. I imagine that picture

is not very appealing to modern atheists.

In Aristotelian ethics, the influences, structures, and tendencies

of objective reality are not to be escaped through emancipation

but are to be accepted as the inescapable context in which one can

learn moral character through the lifelong practice of the virtues

to achieve one’s proper telos of happiness. Real happiness springs from virtuous living in naturally given contexts, not liberation

from those contexts.3 In the end, Aristotle would say, the virtuous

are indeed emancipated, but emancipated from their base, stupid,

ungoverned, animal propensities, not from external constraints per

se. So if, as it seems to me, contemporary atheism is committed to a

quite different humanistic, spiritual quest for individual emancipa-

tion, freedom, and self- determination, Aristotle would also not be

appealing for this reason.4

This is all speculation. But whatever the reasons, I do think it

strange that atheists today wishing to make the case for being “good

without God” largely ignore Aristotelian virtue ethics. And sorting

out the reasons why might help us better understand the deeper

moral interests, commitments, and perhaps blind spots of contem-

porary atheists.

129

c o n c L u s I o n



to cLose

This book is clearly not the definitive word on atheism’s prospects

and limits. Nor is it intended as a work of academic guild philos-

ophy. All of the issues addressed here we should view as matters

of ongoing public conversations. Why? Because these issues have

important practical social ramifications for our common life in the

public sphere, and because they are intrinsically interesting and in-

structive. These are just the sorts of things about which citizens of

healthy democracies ought to be learning and arguing wel . Healthy

democracies and societies require informed, critically thinking

citizens and members. Demagoguery, cultural polarization, and

political breakdown feed on simplistic views, narrow ideological

thinking, and the inability to be openly self- critical. All parties in-

volved in the theism- atheism debates, in shared moral reflection,

and in the public consumption of the findings of science should

be interested in and committed to careful reasoning, rigorous criti-

cism, and the making of justified and defensible claims. To help ad-

vance those goods and to stimulate fruitful conversations, this book

invites a broad audience— particularly college students and the

reading public— to think about and participate in better- informed

deliberations about atheism, morality, science, and human nature. If

we can all learn to do that better, we will all be better off.

130





notes



Introduction

1. See, for example, David Voas and Mark Chaves, 2016, “Is the United States a Counterexample to the Secularization Thesis?,” American Journal of Sociology 121(5): 1517– 1556; Michael Hout and Claude Fischer, 2002, “Why More

Americans Have No Religious Preference: Politics and Generations,” American Sociological Review 67(2): 165– 190.

2. More than a few nonfundamentalist religious leaders have noted and responded to this developing trend. See, for instance, Rod Dreher, 2017, The Benedict Option: A Strategy for Christians in a Post- Christian Nation. New York: Sentinel; Charles Chaput, 2017, Strangers in a Strange Land: Living the Catholic Faith in a Post- Christian World. New York: Holt; Anthony Esolen, 2017, Out of the Ashes: Rebuilding American Culture. Washington, DC: Regnery; Stanley Hauerwas, 2014, Resident Aliens: Life in the Christian Colony.

Nashville: Abingdon Press.

3. To be clear, atheism is only one facet of the much larger and more complex phe-nomenon of secularization. Atheism ought to be understood as one aspect of secularization, but the latter cannot and should not be reduced to the former.

This book focuses on atheist intellectual arguments; I have written elsewhere about secularization, in Christian Smith, 2017, Religion: What It Is, How It Works, and Why It Matters. Princeton: Princeton University Press.

4. One chapter does involve a critical review of some of the arguments of one of Sam Harris’s books on science and morality.

131

n o t e s

5. Three of the four chapters have been published previously in different form in various other, relatively more obscure print outlets— which few of this book’s readers will have had occasion to notice. The previous publication references are, where applicable, cited in the notes to each chapter.

6. At some point, however, the sophistication of professional guild philosophy can become counterproductive, per the discerning observation of University of Toronto professor of philosophy and classics John Rist: “the major issues in moral philosophy . . . are comparatively simple and cannot be fudged. Much of the sheer complication and difficulty of contemporary moral philosophy serves to blur this simplicity.” Rist, 2002, Real Ethics: Rethinking the Foundation of Morality. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, p. 8.



Chapter 1

1. The empirical question of how religious and secular groups compare morally, however, is far from settled. Simply to observe that atheists often are morally good does not itself answer the question of whether they tend as a population to be as good as or better than religious believers. For an example of empirical tests of these questions, see John H. Evans, 2016, What Is a Human?

New York: Oxford University Press, pp. 49– 70, 197– 206.

2. Nonetheless, Paul Kurtz bases nearly his entire argument that atheists can be good without God on this empirical observation of goodness: that while “mil ions of people do not believe in God,” still “they do believe very deeply in morality” and “have led exemplary lives of nobility and excellence, and . . . have contributed greatly to the common good.” Kurtz, 2009, “The Kurtz/ Craig Debate,” in Robert Garcia and Nathan King (eds.), Is Goodness without God Good Enough? Lanham, MD: Rowman and Littlefield, pp. 25– 29, 33– 36, 42– 44.

3. Philip Kitcher, 2014, Life after Faith: The Case for Secular Humanism. New Haven: Yale University Press; Kitcher, 2011, The Ethical Project. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press; Sam Harris, 2010, The Moral Landscape: How Science Can Determine Human Values. New York: Free Press; Greg Epstein, 2009, Good without God: What a Billion Nonreligious People Do Believe.

New York: Harper; Lex Bayer and John Figdor, 2014, Atheist Mind, Humanist Heart: Rewriting the Ten Commandments for the Twenty- First Century: Lanham, MD: Rowman and Littlefield.

4. Frans de Waal, 2013, The Bonobo and the Atheist. New York: Norton; Phil Zuckerman, 2014, Living the Secular Life. New York: Penguin; Katherine Ozment, 2016, Grace without God. New York: Harper; Walter Sinnott-Armstrong, 2009, Morality without God? New York: Oxford University Press; Kai Nielsen, 1990. Ethics without God. Buffalo, NY: Prometheus; Ronald 132

n o t e s

Lindsay, 2014, The Necessity of Secularism. Durham, NC: Pitchstone. I also read and at times reference chapters in Garcia and King.

5. Here I align myself with the position philosophers call “reason externalism”

(against “reason internalism”), which I think is the more rationally defensible and empirically realistic position. Colloquially said, reason externalism in ethics believes that motivations for moral action sometimes need to come from outside of the explanation for or judgment concerning why an action is right or good; reason internalism believes motivations are always internal to the moral judgment or explanation. Externalism is often associated with a Humean theory of action (beliefs + desires → actions), while internalism is often associated with a Kantian account (right beliefs → actions), among others. Russ Shafer- Landau provides what to me are convincing arguments for reason externalism in his 2003 book Moral Realism (New York: Oxford University Press, pp. 119– 161), concluding that “whether attention to any given fact generates motivation depends on what else is in an agent’s motivational profile. . . . A deeply immoral person, even after being confronted with the moral truth, may nevertheless remain indifferent to it. . . . Amoralism is a genuine possibility: one may sincerely endorse the rightness of an action without thereby being motivated to perform it. . . . It is at least conceptually possible for a sincere normative judgment to entirely lack motivational power. . . . We are misled if we move from the obvious fact that moral judgments are usually motivating, to the stronger claim that they cannot fail to be” (pp. 120, 121, 145, 161).

6. Why do I believe Kantians (and, more broadly, reason internalists) are wrong here? Answering that question adequately is beyond the scope of this book, so here I only offer a few basic thoughts. To begin, let us remind ourselves that Kant was no secularist, despite his critiques of traditional arguments for the existence of God. Kant viewed as essential for the success of his rationalist ethics the postulates of the existence of (1) an omnipotent, omniscient, and just divinity, and (2) an afterlife and some kind of immortality of the human soul.

(See, for example, Chris Surprenant, 2008, “Kant’s Postulate of the Immortality of the Soul,” International Philosophical Quarterly 48(1): 85– 98; Christopher Insole, 2016, The Intolerable God: Kant’s Theological Journey. Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans). This means that atheist Kantian ethicists today who think they can simply delete Kant’s explicit reliance on a divinity and an afterlife, and still make work his principle that the justifying motivation to act rightly is simply contained in a rational warranting explanation for the right, are claiming an accomplishment Kant himself thought impossible. By my lights, the divinity and afterlife that Kant believed necessary for his ethics to work function practically as the ultimate backstop motivating factor situating the moral agent, meaning that my position here may actually not be too far off from his own.

We must also understand in the developing history of ideas that Kant’s insistence that the motivation to act morally is provided simply by a rational 133

n o t e s

warranting explanation for the right was specifically set in opposition to the contrary position against which he was arguing, namely David Hume’s empiricist ethics. Important about that for present purposes is that Hume’s characteristically consistent empiricist case, centered on human passions, drove the dissenting Kant to develop his characteristically consistent rationalist case, centered on the a priori categorical imperative. Kant was determined that his universalist ethics would involve no contingent, a posteriori feature, so what counts as a good reason for moral actions could not require an additional element of a justification for motivation. Paul Guyer, 2008, Knowledge, Reason, and Taste: Kant’s Responses to Hume, Princeton: Princeton University Press.

Warranted explanations of the right alone must propel moral actions, for example: “everyone must grant that a law, if it is to hold morally, that is, as a ground of an obligation, it must carry with it absolute necessity. . . . Therefore, the ground of obligation . . . must not be sought in the nature of the human being or in the circumstances of the world in which he is placed, but a priori simply in concepts of pure reason.” Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, in Practical Philosophy, 1996 (1785), trans. and ed. Mary Gregor. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 4:389. That was a move of logical necessity for Kant, given his case against Hume, but, I suggest, it was not well matched to the actual subjects of moral actions, namely, real, empirical human beings. Knowing how complex actual processes of human cognition and motivation are, we have very good prima facie reason to be suspicious of an ethical system that is as one- sided as either Hume’s or Kant’s, however internally consistently they were argued.

I count myself among philosophers like Barbara Herman, Paul Guyer, and

Allen Wood who question the success of Kant’s program of reliance on the motivational capacity of rational warrant alone, apart from the need for an associated element of some value justifying moral motivations. Herman, 1993, The Practice of Moral Judgment. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press; Guyer and Wood, 1998, introduction to Immanuel Kant, Critique of Pure Reason, trans.

Paul Guyer and Allen Wood. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press; Wood,

1999, Kant’s Ethical Thought. New York: Cambridge University Press. Such arguments, if I read them correctly, suggest that Kant’s exclusive insistence on the right over the good fails to acknowledge a values teleology present in, or at least implied by, the structure of his argument. If nothing else, the motivating desire of the erstwhile moral skeptic not to violate her own rational agency or autonomy or humanity itself must serve as value- leverage external to the rational warrant of the right, needed to overcome the possible resistance and be motivated actually to choose and act on the right in the duty of good wil .

At bottom, I am here considering two fundamentally different philosophical views of the relationship of human reason and wil . For Kant, the rational will is the good wil , so to be properly rational is necessarily to be good. Painting with a broad brush, we may call this the Platonic tradition, in which immoral behavior 134

n o t e s

results from ignorance, error, or irrationality. The alternative historical tradition, which we might call Augustinian, recognizes a crucial disjunct between reason and wil , and locates much immoral behavior not in a flaw in reason but primarily in the misdirection of the wil . In the latter tradition, reason can conclude whatever it wishes, but the will has at least a semiautonomy of its own to motivate contrary behaviors to which it might be attracted. This outlook does not need to swing all the way over to Hume’s view of reason as always the “slave of the passions.” (This view itself is a secularized version of Martin Luther’s view, expressed in his 1525 work On the Bondage of the Will, which differed significantly from the pietistic Lutheranism in which Kant was raised, which instead emphasized the self- control of one’s wil , duty to the right, self- purification from besetting sinful influences, methodical sanctification, and so on and which figured so influentially as background sensibilities in his later ethics.) And purely on the grounds of realistic empirical observation, not theological inclination, I think something like the Augustinian account of the relation of reason and will is manifestly more apt than the Platonic account. And so I think Kant is operating on faulty premises on this critical issue.

This helps to explain why, empirically, the behavior of few if any people is governed primarily by rationalist philosophical proofs. Whether or not reason is capable of independently determining the will for some, it does not for most of humanity. Nor would it, I think, even if everyone read and understood Kantian ethics. This position is also validated by mounds of cognitive science scholarship in recent decades on the subsidiary role of reflective reasoning in the empirical processes of human moral decision- making. (The literature on this is immense, but for starters see Jonathan Haidt, 2006, The Happiness Hypothesis.

New York: Basic Books; Haidt, 2012, The Righteous Mind. New York: Pantheon.) So the reasonable skeptics and the “sensible knaves” I discuss below may actually understand the rational argument why some action ought to be judged to be wrong, but still lack the motivational component of a justifying reason to care about it enough to mobilize their wil s actually to do what is right. The Kantian will object: “but that is a violation of basic rationality, which is what sets us apart from brute animals and is the condition of the possibility of any intel igible social life!” Much of humanity, if it even cares to answer, will reply: “okay, whatever.” In short, Kantianism is an elegant ethical system, but— especially when the divinity and afterlife, which Kant thought were essential for its success, are removed— it is il - suited for the actual creatures whom philosophical ethics exist to form: real human beings. In order to “be good,” real, empirical people—

not only philosophical ideal types— require both warranting explanations and motivational justifications.

Of course, Kant himself was not oblivious to this. Kant was unduly sanguine about the extent of moral agreement among sound, normal, adult human persons in different cultures (and not simply from his perspective in eighteenth- century 135

n o t e s

Königsberg, Germany). Nevertheless, he actually expressed doubts in his

writings as to whether any human actions have ever been motivated by the sheer force of duty (for example, Groundwork, 4:406– 407). And, perhaps sensing a vulnerability in his earlier works for such reasons, Kant’s account of the role of emotions in fostering morality expressed in his latter writings complicates the simple view emphasizing the sufficiency of good will alone (see Guyer 2008; 2010, “Moral Feelings in the Metaphysics of Morals,” in Lara Denis (ed.), Kant’s Metaphysics of Morals: A Critical Guide, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, pp. 130– 151). Thus, the “Kantian” view may not be as clear- cut as some latter- day Kantians might imagine or hope.

7. For present purposes, I follow these atheist moralists in treating “moral” and

“good” as interchangeable, even though a more precise analysis would need to distinguish them.

8. Bayer and Figdor 110; Kitcher 2014: 64; Epstein 93.

9. Harris 55, 65, 79– 80, 106, 110; Kitcher 2014: 58; 2001: 17, 82, 255, 409; Epstein 21, 118; Beyer and Figdor 92, 93, 97; also see Zuckerman 13; de Waal 49, 156; Lindsay 77– 78.

10. Harris 55, 106, 110, 191; Kitcher 2014: 53, 87– 88; Epstein xvi i, 25, 118; Beyer and Figdor 94, 110, 139; also see Zuckerman 13, 15, 20, 36.

11. Bayer and Figdor 97; Epstein xvi i. They do not distinguish between doing the good to others we want done to ourselves (the golden rule of Jesus) and not doing the bad to others we do not want done to ourselves (the so- called silver rule of Rabbi Hillel and Confucius), which is a big ethical difference, but for present purposes let us set that aside. See Doug Porpora, 2001, Landscapes of the Soul. New York: Oxford University Press. Zuckerman writes: “What is good? . . . Simple: the Golden Rule. . . . Treating others as you would like to be treated. . . . Not harming others and helping those in need . . . which flow easily and directly from . . . the simple logic of empathetic reciprocity” (13). Frans de Waal is the only one of these authors who explicitly rejects the Golden Rule as an inadequate moral guide, on the grounds that it has the fatal flaw of assuming that what others want is the same as what we want (“that all people are alike”) and that, due to its “very limited reach,” it “doesn’t help resolve most [moral]

dilemmas” (181– 182).

12. Quotes in this paragraph come from Kitcher 2014, 158; 2011, 304, 367, 374–

375, 376, 396.

13. Quotes from this paragraph come from Epstein 223, 224, 225, 146– 150.

14. Harris 28, 36, 43, 50, 52.

15. Beyer and Figdor 106. Others agree. The atheist philosopher Kai Nielsen, for instance, claims that “morality requires that we attempt to distribute happiness as evenly as possible. We must be fair. . . . Requirements of justice make it necessary that each person be given equal consideration”

(Nielsen 122).

136

n o t e s

16. Also see Stephen Law, 2013, “Humanism,” in Stephen Bullivant and Michael Ruse (eds.), The Oxford Handbook of Atheism. New York: Oxford University Press, pp. 263– 277.

17. Nielsen says: “our individual welfare is dependent upon having a device [morality] that equitably resolves social and individual conflict” (126). Lindsay writes that morality “creates stability, provides security, ameliorates harmful conditions, fosters trust, and facilitates cooperation in achieving shared and complementary goals. . . . Morality enables us to live together and . . . improve the conditions under which we live” (77– 78).

18. Nielsen actually conflates deontological and functionalist ethics: “the Kantian principle of respect for persons is actually bound up in the very idea . . . that our individual welfare is dependent on having a device that equitably resolves social and individual conflicts” (126).

19. Harris 65, 110, 191.

20. Bayer and Figdor 107. The following quotes in this paragraph come from 89, 92, 96, 95, 97, 110, 139.

21. Epstein 35; the following quote p. 34. Margaret Knight says: “why should I consider others? . . . I think the only possible answer to this question is the Humanist one— because we are naturally social beings; we live in

communities; and life in any community, from the family outwards, is much happier, and fuller, and richer if its members are friendly and cooperative than if they are hostile and resentful” (quoted in Law, 2013, 271).

22. Epstein 103. Unclear throughout Epstein’s writings, however, remains the question of whether we should by social contract treat people as if they have dignity because we prefer that— as is suggested by much of his language about dignity needing to be “promoted,” “struggled for,” “cultivated,” “a goal to strive for,” and, indeed, about humans as having “the potential for dignity” (37, 89, 90, 91)— or instead take the realist position that people should be treated well because they are objectively endowed with a real dignity that as a moral fact must be honored, whether or not anyone does so.



23. For the most part, the arguments are straightforwardly honest in

acknowledging that if God and/ or some moral natural law do not exist, then what we think of as morality really is a human construction, with no external, objective reference. (I do not think they take the implications of that premise seriously enough, but at least they are unflinchingly clear about the premise.) I also largely agree with these writers’ arguments against the modern rejection of the so- called naturalistic fallacy, inherited from (a misreading of) Hume, which insists that facts and values must be divorced. To make their cases, these atheist moralists must show that morality derives from the facts of human life, and so they must undercut modernity’s rejection of the naturalistic fallacy. Values, they must show, are informed by facts. My own neo- Aristotelian critical realist personalism agrees with them on this point. (See Smith, 2010, 137

n o t e s

What Is a Person?: Rethinking Humanity, Social Life, and the Moral Good from the Person Up. Chicago: University of Chicago Press; Smith, 2015, To Flourish or Destruct: A Personalist Theory of Human Goods, Motivations, Failure, and Evil. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.) I think that some of these atheist moralists do a better job than most moral philosophers today in taking seriously what we can learn from relevant social scientific, cognitive, and neu-rological research relevant to moral behavior. They go overboard at times, but in general I appreciate that some of them try to take relevant science seriously.

24. Kitcher 2011, 316, 317, italics added for emphasis; the following quote is 314–

315, italics in original.

25. Kitcher 2014, 51, italics added for emphasis. Likewise, Nielsen insists on “the need to do what we can to diminish the awful sum of human misery in the

world.” He adds: “morality requires that we attempt to distribute happiness as evenly as possible. We must be fair: each person is to count for one and none is to count for more than one.” Nielsen. 1990, Ethics without God. Buffalo, NY: Prometheus Books, p. 117.

26. Nielsen 34, 148, 223, 224, 225, italics added.

27. Harris 52, 7.

28. Bayer and Figdor 106, 71, 92; the next quotes come from 109, 139, 140, and 114– 115.

29. Bayer and Figdor center autonomous individual preference and choice as their highest moral value, including in determining whether to adhere to any moral norms, even against murder. This puts them in a bind when it comes to dealing with those who choose not to be “good” by their standards (e.g., Bayer and Figdor 89, 97, 98, 106). All they can do is try to persuade others that the choice to be “bad” will lead to their own unhappiness. If that fails, they have no other noncoercive recourse, and coercion violates individual choice.

30. Kitcher 2011, 304, 305.

31. Similarly, the moral philosopher Ronald Lindsay explains for those

who “want an explanation of the reason for acknowledging moral

obligations”: “it’s largely a matter of logical consistency. If we accept the institution of morality, then we are tacitly agreeing to be bound by its norms.

We cannot logically maintain that moral norms apply to everyone except

us.” More Lindsay: “in saying an action is morally wrong, we are committed to making the same judgment regardless of whether it is I or someone else doing the action” (Lindsay 110). The dubious rationalist presupposition

here, again, is that human behavior is straightforwardly driven by logic and the desire for rational consistency, which neither convinces me nor, I am confident, reasonable skeptics.

32. If Kitcher had wanted to succeed, he would have needed to supply more explicit premises to connect his argument to its conclusion, such as (1) the increased connectedness of a globalized world means that the wel - being of 138

n o t e s

every other society and person on the planet actually does affect every other person’s wel - being, or (2) all humans are highly morally responsible for not only their own lives and those of their children but also for many generations of humans into the future. But I do not think either of these would be or need to be plausible premises to the reasonable skeptic.

33. Bayer and Figdor promise to address the challenge of universal inclusion in chapter 11 of their book, but they end up only discussing how to weigh trade-offs of goods between different people, which is a different matter.

34. Charles Taylor asks: “is the naturalist affirmation conditional on a vision of human nature in the fullness of its health and strength? Does it move us to extend help to the irremediably broken, such as the mentally handicapped, those dying without dignity, fetuses with genetic defects?” Taylor, 1989, Sources of the Self. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, p. 516.

35. “High standards need strong sources. This is because there is something morally corrupting, even dangerous, in sustaining the demand simply on the

feeling of undischarged obligation, on guilt, or its obverse, self- satisfaction”

(Taylor 516).

36. See note 6.

37. Hume: “according to the imperfect ways in which human affairs are conducted, a sensible knave, in particular incidents, may think, that an act of iniquity or in-fidelity will make a considerable addition to his fortune, without causing any considerable breach in the social union or confederacy. That honesty is the best policy may be a good general rule; but is liable to many exceptions: And he, it may, perhaps, be thought, conducts himself with most wisdom, who

observes the general rule, and takes advantage of all the exceptions.” That is the difficulty. Hume admits: “I must confess that, if a man think[s] that this reasoning much requires an answer, it will be a little difficult to find any which will to him appear satisfactory and convincing.” Hume, 1983, An Enquiry Concerning Principles of Morals. Indianapolis: Hackett, p. 81.

38. To formalize this, the “sensible knave” scenario requires three joint conditions and is enhanced by a fourth: (1) knave almost always upholds moral norms and thus develops a reputation for being good, honest, and reliable; (2) knave privately monitors situations to recognize exceptional opportunities in

which (a) violating moral norms would (b) provide significant self- serving advantages (c) at very low risks of being caught; and (3) knave is mentally and emotionally prepared to capitalize upon such situations without hesitation (in contrast to what would be expected based on knave’s public reputation) in order to maximize the chances of success. Knave is psychologically aided in this by (4) understanding the conditions and consequences of atheism (e.g., that moral norms are only human inventions, that one only need fear being caught, not the judgments of God or the inexorable consequences of karma or some other natural law or superhuman force).

139

n o t e s

39. Some social scientists have tried to solve the free rider problem by appealing to

“selective incentives,” but these can only contribute partially to other reasons not to free ride and never alone make that decision justified.

40. David Brink in The Cambridge Companion to Atheism: “The question really asks about the rational authority of morality. That question arises for most of us because of a perceived tension between the other- regarding demands of morality and a broadly prudential conception of practical reason, according to which what one has reason to do is to promote one’s own aims or interests.

For meeting the demands of nonaggression, cooperation, fidelity, fair play, and charity often appears to constrain one’s pursuit of one’s own aims or interests

. . . . As long as we understand the prudential justification of morality in terms of instrumental advantage, the secular coincidence between other- regarding morality and enlightened self- interest must remain imperfect. Sometimes noncompliance would go undetected; and even where noncompliance is detected, the benefits . . . sometimes outweigh the costs. . . . Compliance involves costs as well as benefits. It must remain a second- best option, behind undetected noncompliance, in which one enjoys the benefits of others’ compliance without the costs of one’s own.” Brink, 2007, “The Autonomy of Ethics,” in Michael Martin (ed.), The Cambridge Companion to Atheism. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, pp. 160– 161, italics in original. Also see Candace Vogler, 2009, Reasonably Vicious. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.

41. Hume’s reply, for example: “in all ingenuous natures, the antipathy to treachery and roguery is too strong to be counterbalanced by any views of profit or pe-cuniary advantage. Inward peace of mind, consciousness of integrity, a satisfactory review of our own conduct; these are circumstances very requisite to happiness, and will be cherished and cultivated by every honest man, who feels the importance of them. Such a one has, besides, the frequent satisfaction of seeing knaves, with all their pretending cunning and ability, betrayed by their own maxims” (Hume 82). For “honest men” to act like sensible knaves, they will “have sacrificed the invaluable enjoyments of a character . . . for the acquisition of worthless toys and gewgaws . . . above all the peaceful reflection of one’s own conduct” (82). MacIntyre rightly inquires: “Why should we obey rules on occasions when it is not to our interest to do so? Hume . . . tries to conclude that it is to our long- term advantage to be just, when all that his premises warrant is the . . . conclusion that it is often to our long- term advantage that people generally should be just. And [Hume] has to evoke . . . what he calls ‘the communicated passion of sympathy’: [that] we find it agreeable that some quality is agreeable to others because we are so constructed that we naturally sympathize with those others. The . . . [more honest] answer would have been: ‘Sometimes we do, sometimes we do not; and when we do not,

why should we?’ ” MacIntyre, 1984, After Virtue. Notre Dame, IN: University of Notre Dame Press, pp. 229– 230, italics added.

140

n o t e s

42. All quotes following come from Kitcher 2011, 275– 276; 2014, 56.

43. Sinnott- Armstrong similarly claims that “it is normally to be in our interest to be moral. Immorality rarely pays. . . . Even when [cheaters] get away with it, they usually won’t be happier, or much happier, than if they had made more modest gains honestly. They will often be hounded by guilt or fear of rivals or of punishment” (Sinnott- Armstrong 114).

44. Bayer and Figdor 109, 110, italics added for emphasis.

45. Kitcher 2011, 87.

46. Here we see slippage between the need for people to be truly, consistently honest, despite the costs, and merely developing a reputation for trustworthiness. De Waal for example speaks about “reputations of honesty and trustworthiness” (234); and Bayer and Figdor talk of people who have the “desire to be seen as an honest person” (97).

47. Kitcher 2011, 276.

48. Harris 40, 68.

49. “There is no one way we ‘ought to behave.’ We choose to behave in the way we think optimizes our life- happiness” (Bayer and Figdor 89).

50. MacIntyre demonstrates a similar dynamic in Hume, whereby his internal incoherence is driven by “two incompatible attitudes” he held: “on the one hand, Hume insists that there is nothing to judgments of virtue and vice except the expression of feelings of approval and disapproval. Thus there can be no criteria external to those feelings by appeal to which we may pass judgement on them. . . . Yet at the same time he wishes to condemn, sometimes in the harshest of terms, those who hold certain alternative views of the virtues”

(230– 231). It doesn’t add up.

51. Bayer and Figdor 96, italics added for emphasis.

52. Harris 56, italics added for emphasis. Harris also says: “we feel guilt/ shame over our own moral failings” (92). Yes, often we do, but not always, and especially not when we are convinced that we have done nothing objectively wrong.

53. Bayer and Figdor 93. Similarly: “cooperative action can be a way for someone to maximize his or her own self- interest.” The next quote comes from 97, italics added for emphasis.

54. Again, Bayer and Figdor claim that “we benefit from living in and supporting an ethical society” (110). True, generally. But to this the sensible knave can also say to himself, not erroneously, “yes, and I benefit even more when I support it most of the time and then take careful advantage of it in propitious situations.”

55. Harris 42, italics in original. Harris recurrently argues by referencing extremes in statements such as this: “it is good to avoid behaving in such a way as to produce the worst possible misery for everyone” (39, italics added).

56. Epstein 94. Similarly, Lindsay frames what are allegedly the only two alternatives available in the extreme, as either completely “accepting the institutions of morality . . . and accepting the obligations that come with this 141

n o t e s

institution” (which requires consistent obedience) or “rejecting the institution of morality entirely” (meaning “to cut oneself off from human society”)— thus pretending that the sensible knave option does not exist (Lindsay 110, 111, italics added for emphasis).

57. Sinnott- Armstrong illustrates more sidestepping, by answering the question of why people should be moral even when it fails to serve their personal interests simply by disconnecting “reasons” from “motivations” (instead of, in good Kantian fashion, directly embedding moral motivations in the warranting

reasons). The “obvious” reason to act morally, he says, is this: “the fact that an act causes harm to others is reason not to do that act, and the fact that an act prevents harm to others is a reason to do that act. There is, then, always a reason to be moral on this secular account.” But why, the reasonable skeptic might ask, should I care about preventing harm to others? Wel , that, replies Sinnott- Armstrong, is a totally different question, one concerning motivations.

“Some rapists may not care about harming others,” he notes. “However,

all that shows is that they lack the motivation to be moral. Motives are crucially different from reasons.” The rapist actually still has a good reason not to commit rape, he says, in order not to harm the victim, which “it would not be irrational or crazy” to act upon. Thus, “there is a reason for them to be moral, even if it takes something else— such as good character or training— to motivate them to be moral. . . . For people who really do not care about others, the solution is found in retraining and restraining rather than in theory” (pp. 117, 118). Essentially, Sinnott- Armstrong is saying that secularism can provide good, rational reasons to be ethical, but that whether or not it can motivate people actually to act ethically is a different question that someone else is responsible to answer. And that seems to me, in the real world, to be an indirect admission of failure.

58. Kitcher 2014, 47, 48.

59. Kitcher 2014, 142, 143, 153– 154. Note how Kitcher’s introduction of the words “inevitable” and “ineradicability” exemplifies the rhetorical dodge of going to extremes described above. His shift from “remembering the extent of cruelty in human history” (142) to talk of “hypothetical tendencies” is another sleight of hand. And given that humans have perfected the technology for total self- annihilation and continue in global political struggles to flirt with that possibility, the language of “premature” here seems il - chosen.

60. Epstein 125.

61. Bayer and Figdor 114. Is the dehumanizing of other really only “sad”?

62. Bayer and Figdor 117– 118. Bayer and Figdor place massive faith in the power of talking things out: “even without an absolute moral truth, we can still have meaningful conversations about right and wrong actions. It’s true that claims about right and wrong can’t be stated as certainties, but they can be stated as strong (and even enforceable) preferences. As a result, we can still debate 142

n o t e s

ethical values by relating the preferences of the individual to the moral consensus preferences of society— that is, balancing what you want against what’s best for society”; and “the mere fact that our opinions and your opinions are both subjective doesn’t mean we can’t sensibly debate between the two. . . . You might just convince us that your reasons are a better fit even for our own self-interest” (92, 105).

63. Epstein 139; here Epstein is endorsing an argument of Alan Dershowitz.

64. Ozment 70, 115.

65. Epstein 56.

66. A different line of interrogation of these writings would examine the extent to which the content of their moral systems is parasitically dependent upon the Western Jewish and Christian heritage of morality that they inherit from two millennia of Christendom and more of Judaism. Atheists may reply: “it may well be the case that, as a historical fact, our moral concern for persons came from our religious conceptions, but it is a wel - known principle of logic that the validity of a belief is independent of its origin. What the religious moralist must do is show that only on religious grounds could such a principle of respect for persons be justifiably asserted. But he has not shown this is so” (Nielsen 123). This inquiry is worth exploring but is not my primary concern here.

67. Bayer and Figdor 107.

68. The difficulties on which I have focused above are by no means the only problems besetting these atheist moralists. All of these writers also indulge in expressions of vulgar empiricist scientism, basing allegedly knock- down arguments against religion on naïve and outdated epistemological assumptions.

Moreover, they all display (what should be) embarrassing ignorance of the variety and nuances of religious accounts for human morality, substituting caricatures of divine- command theory that they assume are easily defeated by the “Euthyphro dilemma.” They display an incredible neglect of Aristotle, whose virtue ethics could present them with both great help and significant challenges. Some of these writers tend to confuse the question of whether atheists have reasons to be morally good with the distinct question of whether atheists can lead meaningful or purpose- filled lives— thus failing to recognize that one could well lead a meaningful life that is anything but morally good (e.g., I have no doubt that the lives of many Nazi fascists were highly meaningful). Many of these atheist moralists exhibit a captivity to the incoherent moral emotivism criticized by Alasdair MacIntyre: they declare gratuitous negative moral judgments (of things they do not like as “crass,” “sad,” “misled,”

“unfortunate,” “unhealthy,” “elitist,” “cruel,” “silly,” and “misguided”) that are unjustifiable by their own moral systems. Some of these atheist moralists shift inconsistently between the view that our evolutionary inheritance is a nearly determinative control shaping our lives on the one hand and the view that we 143

n o t e s

humans are free to transcend as we please the dictates of our evolutionarily inherited traits on the other as our purposes dictate (e.g., Harris says of our evolved functional “penchant for out- group hostility” that “such evolutionary constraints no longer hold. . . . We are now poised to consciously engineer our further evolution”; 102). Most of these writers treat all moral questions as a matter of how people treat one another in interpersonal relationships (e.g., Frans de Waal says: “morality is a system of rules concerning the two H’s of Helping or at least not Hurting fellow human beings. It addresses the wel - being of others and puts the community before the individual”; 156), which reductively truncates the way most cultures and philosophers have

conceived of ethics and morality. Those who emphasize human happiness

treat, in good utilitarian fashion, everyone’s search for happiness as similar; they fail to recognize how perceptions of the content of and best strategies for achieving happiness and wel - being depend very heavily on people’s locations in social structures and institutions, a fact that greatly complicates the kind of aggregations of happiness that utilitarians seek. And these atheist moralists are also oddly obsessed with hel , when few contemporary religious people, including American evangelicals, talk much about the subject.

69. Taylor 517.

70. Z. Kunda, 1990, “The Case for Motivated Reasoning,” Psychological Bulletin 108(3): 480– 498; L. Nir, 2011, “Motivated Reasoning and Public Opinion

Perception,” Public Opinion Quarterly 75(3): 504.

71. Similarly, MacIntyre explains inconsistencies in Hume’s moral account, which lacks any criteria of judgment beyond “the passions of men of good sense,”

thusly: his “appeal to a universal verdict by mankind turns out to be the mask worn by an appeal to those who physiologically and socially share Hume’s attitudes and Weltanschauung. . . . What Hume identifies as the standpoint of universal human nature turns out in fact to be that of the prejudices of the Hanoverian ruling elite.” His account is thus “an attempt to claim universal rational authority for what is in fact the local morality of parts of eighteenth-century Northern Europe” (231– 232). This is related to what Charles Taylor calls a “subtraction story” of secularization, namely, the view that we can retain a liberal humanism inherited in part from millennia of religious influences even after we subtract God from the picture. Taylor, 2007, A Secular Age.

Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.

72. Charles Taylor has said: “only if there is such a thing as agape, or one of the secular claimants to its succession, is Nietzsche wrong” (Taylor 1989, 516).

I suppose at issue there is what could count as a “secular claimant” to succeed God’s agape love. Also see Philip Yancey, 1998, “Nietzsche Was Right,” Books and Culture, January/ February, 14– 17; David Bentley Hart, 2003, “Christ and Nothing,” First Things, October, https:// www.firstthings.com/ article/ 2003/

10/ christ- and- nothing.

144

n o t e s

73. I have made tentative efforts to elaborate this idea in two books: What Is a Person? and To Flourish or Destruct. But see John Hare, 2009, “Is Moral Goodness without Belief in God Rationally Stable?,” in Garcia and King 85– 99.



Chapter 2

1. A shorter version of this chapter was previously published as “Does Naturalism Warrant a Moral Belief in Universal Benevolence and Human

Rights?,” in Jeffrey Schloss and Michael Murray (eds.), 2009, The Believing Primate: Scientific, Philosophical and Theological Perspectives on the Evolution of Religion. New York: Oxford University Press, pp. 292– 316.

2. Michael Ruse, 2013, “Naturalism and the Scientific Method,” in Stephen Bullivant and Michael Ruse (eds.), The Oxford Handbook of Atheism.

New York: Oxford University Press, pp. 383– 397.

3. Francis Col ins, the former director of the Human Genome Project and director of the National Institute of Health, provides an example of one exception with his 2007 book The Language of God: A Scientist Presents Evidence for Belief. New York: Free Press.

4. Evan Fales, 2007, “Naturalism and Physicalism,” in Michael Martin (ed.), The Cambridge Companion to Atheism. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, pp. 118– 134. Important to note is that the particular conceptions of “nature,” “supernatural,” and “transcendent” embedded in this position of naturalism are grounded in particular, Western, especially Abrahamic

conceptions of God and religion in which God is the transcendent creator of and ruler over nature, which is itself not- God. Some other religions and quasi- religious philosophies understand spirits existing as part of nature per se or view the natural order of reality as involving some larger cosmic force (e.g., karma) that does not transcend but helps to constitute nature. Thus, these standard categories used by both theists and atheists in the West are not universally applicable but are historically and culturally located and are ultimately defined theologically.

5. In this, I follow in the path of philosophers like Nicholas Wolterstorff and Michael Perry, among others, who have argued that no stable nonreligious justification exists for a commitment to universal human rights. Wolterstorff, 2010, Justice: Rights and Wrongs. Princeton: Princeton University Press; Perry, 2000, Human Rights: Four Inquiries. New York: Oxford University Press; Perry, 2008, Toward a Theory of Human Rights: Religion, Law, Courts.

Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.

6. Rodney Stark, 1997, The Rise of Christianity. HarperSanFrancisco; David Bentley Hart, 2010, Atheist Delusions: The Christian Revolution and Its Fashionable Enemies. New Haven: Yale University Press.

145

n o t e s

7. Elizabeth Kolbert, 2015, The Sixth Extinction. New York: Picador; Richard Posner, 2004, Catastrophe: Risk and Response. New York: Oxford University Press; Ted Koppel, 2015, Lights Out. New York: Crown; also see Joseph Tainter, 1988, The Collapse of Complex Societies. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press; Vaclav Smil, 2012, Global Catastrophes and Trends: The Next 50 Years.

Cambridge, MA: MIT Press; Naomi Oreskes and Erik Conway, 2014, The

Collapse of Western Civilization: A View from the Future. New York: Columbia University Press.

8. Charles Taylor, 1989, Sources of the Self. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.

9. Christian Smith, 2003, Moral, Believing Animals. New York: Oxford University Press.

10. James Rachels: “we are not entitled— not on evolutionary grounds, at any rate— to regard our own adaptive behavior as ‘better’ or ‘higher’ than that of a cockroach, who, after all, is adapted equally well to life in its own environmental niche”; 1990, Created from Animals: The Moral Implications of Darwinism. New York: Oxford University Press, p. 70.

11. By this I mean not simply having an emotional reaction but practicing emotivism in its more precise meaning as discussed by Alasdair MacIntyre, 1981, After Virtue: A Study in Moral Theory. Notre Dame, IN: University of Notre Dame Press.

12. Smith, 2010 [1759], The Theory of Moral Sentiments. New York: Penguin Classics.



13. Emile Durkheim, 2014 [1893], The Division of Labor in Society.

New York: Free Press.

14. For example, Singer, 1993, Practical Ethics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press; Helga Kuhse and Peter Singer, 1986, Should the Baby Live? Studies in Bioethics. New York: Oxford University Press.

15. See, for example, Chris Surprenant, 2008, “Kant’s Postulate of the Immortality of the Soul,” International Philosophical Quarterly 48(1): 85– 98; Christopher Insole, 2016, The Intolerable God: Kant’s Theological Journey. Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans; “in effect, what Kant (and some of his successors) have

done . . . is to retain the overriding claims of ‘strict morality’ and obedience to duty, originally backed by what was taken for God’s wil , and over against other (say, more Aristotelian) aspects of the ‘good life,” within increasingly secularized moral systems. . . . Kant managed to retain the Christian claim that the good man is capable of self- unification (of which God is still the ultimate guarantor), but only by the agency of the purified moral wil . . . .

Kantianism fails without the hidden Christianity, and [that failure] points to the impossibility of an ethical theory which is both substantive and non-metaphysical.” John Rist, 2002, Real Ethics: Rethinking the Foundation of Morality. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, pp. 167, 176.

146

n o t e s

16. MacIntyre, 1981.

17. As John Rist observes: “how can I do my duty if I obtain no personal satisfaction at all from doing my duty? . . . Kant . . . must fall victim to Hume: if a dutiful man obtains no personal satisfaction from being dutiful, acting solely because it is his duty, he lacks motivation and cannot act at all. Kant condemns him to giving commands to himself which he has no intel igible motive and therefore no ability to obey.” Rist 166, italics in original.



18. Russ Schafer-

Landau, 2005, Moral Realism: A Defence. Cambridge,

MA: Clarendon Press.

19. Schafer- Landau 2, 8.

20. Schafer- Landau 48.

21. Schafer- Landau 247. “Self- evident” does not mean that everyone must or will believe the moral principle, simply that it is justified for those who do (see pp. 256– 265).

22. Schafer- Landau 248.

23. Schafer- Landau 55, italics in the original. By “naturalism,” he means “a metaphysical thesis about the nature of properties, [which] claims that all real properties are those that would figure ineliminably in perfected versions of the natural and social sciences” (59).

24. Schafer- Landau 63.

25. As Charles Lamore has also shown in his 1996 antinaturalist book The Morals of Modernity. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.

26. Schafer- Landau 63, 66.

27. Schafer- Landau 66.

28. Schafer- Landau 79.

29. Schafer- Landau 76. “The properties that physicists find ineliminably useful are but a small set of those that we believe to be real” (76).

30. Schafer- Landau 76.

31. Schafer- Landau 63, 66.

32. He seems, rightly, too intellectually cautious to venture such an ambitious claim. About his argument for even his limited list of self- evident moral facts, he admits: “I wish I could say I was fully confident of its merits,” acknowledging that “knock- down, watertight philosophical arguments are always in very short supply.” Schafer- Landau 8– 9.

33. Erik Wielenberg has attempted to advance and defend a robust nontheistic, nonnaturalistic moral realism that explicitly attempts to vindicate (nonuniversal) human rights in his 2014 book Robust Ethics: The Metaphysics and Epistemology of Godless Normative Realism. New York: Oxford University Press. Like Shafer- Landau, Wielenberg does not believe ethics can be understood in naturalistic terms, so his is a non naturalistic account, agreeing with Wil iam FitzPatrick that strictly naturalistic accounts of morality “secure the

‘reality’ of ethical facts and properties only by turning them into something 147

n o t e s

else and deflating them in the process” (p. 15). The only part of naturalism Wielenberg is prepared to endorse is that he does not “reject the causal closure of the physical or deny that the physical sciences are entirely successful in their own domains” (pp. 15– 16), a more circumscribed version than that under consideration in this chapter. Moreover, in his more typically cautious modes of argument, Wielenberg only seeks (like Shafer- Landau) to defend very modest moral facts— such as that it is morally wrong to torture other people merely for one’s own pleasure— not the very ambitious moral claims of universal benevolence and human rights. Even so, as his argument unfolds, Wielenberg eventually does venture a defense of inalienable human rights based strictly on the evolved cognitive capacities of wel - functioning humans. But that defense is unconvincing, for various reasons that have been explained well in reviews of the book (for example, Jussi Suikkanen, 2016, “Robust Ethics,”

Ethics 126[2] : 541– 545; and Angus Menuge, 2016, “Robust Ethics,” Faith and Philosophy 33[2]: 249– 253) and that I do not have the space or need here to unpack. Finally, even if his account succeeded, the human rights Wielenberg attempts to justify only pertain to those humans who are able to exercise certain evolved cognitive capacities— which not all living humans can exercise and which are highly variable in the extent of their exercise even among those who can— and thus does not qualify as a warrant for universal human rights.



Chapter 3

1. I am grateful to Steve Vaisey, Keith Meador, Todd Granger, Doug Porpora, Mike Wood, Justin Farrel , and Anna Sutherland for helpful feedback on an earlier version of this chapter.

2. See Andrews Abbott, 1988, The System of Professions: An Essay on the Division of Expert Labor. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.

3. New York: Harper.

4. Edward O. Wilson, 2014, The Meaning of Human Existence. New York: Liveright, p. 173; Wilson also writes: “there is no predestination, no unfathomable mys-tery of life. Demons and gods do not vie for our allegiance. Instead, we are self- made, independent, alone” (26).

5. Victor Stenger, “The Scientific Case against a God Who Created the Universe,”

in Michael Martin and Ricki Monnier (eds.), The Improbability of God.

Amherst, NY: Prometheus, p. 28.

6. Richard Leakey and Roger Lewin, 1992, Origins Reconsidered: In Search of What Makes Us Human. New York: Doubleday, pp. 348– 349.

7. Marcelo Gleiser, 2010, A Tear at the Edge of Creation. New York: Free Press, p. 226.

148

n o t e s

8. Reprinted in Russel , 1917, Mysticism and Logic. London: George Allen & Unwin, pp. 47– 48.

9. Weinberg, 1993, New York: Basic Books, p. 154.

10. Quoted in Nancy Frankenberry, 2008, The Faith of Scientists: In Their Own Words. Princeton: Princeton University Press, p. 336.

11. Terry Eagleton, 2006, “Lunging, Flailing, Mispunching.” London Review of Books 28(20) (October 19): 32– 34.

12. Harari 109.

13. Weinberg, 2004, The Atheism Tapes, interview in 2003, audio series, episode 2.

14. Wilson 150, 154.

15. Linden, 2007, The Accidental Mind: How Brain Evolution Has Given Us Love, Memory, Dreams, and God. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, pp. 232– 233.



Chapter 4

1. Thanks to Atalia Omer, Slavica Jakelic, Heather Price, Phil Gorski, Meredith Whitnah, Dan Escher, Peter Mundey, Justin Farrel , and Katherine Sorrell for reading and commenting on a previous draft of this chapter, helping to improve it considerably. None of them is responsible for any errors or problems in the chapter. A different version of this chapter was previously published as Christian Smith, 2012, “Man the Religious Animal: We Are Naturally but Not Necessarily Religious,” First Things, April.

2. Brad Gregory, 2012, The Unintended Reformation: How a Religious Revolution Secularized Society. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.

3. James Byrne, 1997, Religion and the Enlightenment. Louisville: Westminster John Knox. This, of course, is the supposition of activist atheists today, exemplified most clearly by the leading New Atheists.

4. Rudolf Otto, 1958, The Idea of the Holy. New York: Oxford University Press; Wil iam James, 2009 [1902], The Varieties of Religious Experience.

New York: Library of America; Mircea Eliade, 1987, The Sacred and the Profane: The Nature of Religion. New York: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich.

5. Russell McCutcheon, 2003, Manufacturing Religion. New York: Oxford; Tomoko Masuzawa, 2005, The Invention of World Religions. Chicago: University of Chicago Press; Talal Asad, 1993, Genealogies of Religion. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press; Daniel Dubuisson, 2007, The Western Construction of Religion. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press.

6. With regard to the latter thesis, I agree on these matters with Kevin Schilbrack, 2010, “Religions: Are There Any?,” Journal for the American Academy of Religion 78(4) (November): 1112– 1138, as well as with Martin Riesebrodt.

149

n o t e s

7. Andrew Greeley, 1972, Unsecular Man. New York: Del ; Bel , 1980, “The Return of the Sacred?,” in The Winding Passage. New York: Basic Books; Rodney Stark and Wil iam Bainbridge, 1986, The Future of Religion.

Berkeley: University of California Press; Rodney Stark and Roger Finke, 2000, Acts of Faith. Berkeley: University of California Press; Robert Bel ah, 2011, Religion in Human Evolution. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press; Donald Miller and Tetsunao Yamamori, 2007, Global Pentecostalism: The New Face of Christian Social Engagement. Berkeley: University of California Press; Robert Bel ah, 1967, “Civil Religion in America,” Daedalus 96 (Winter): 1– 21.

8. Steve Bruce, 2002, God Is Dead. New York: Blackwel ; Bryan Wilson, 1979, Contemporary Transformations of Religion. Oxford, England: Oxford University Press; Pippa Norris and Ronald Inglehart, 2004, Sacred and Secular.

Cambridge: Cambridge University Press; Phil Zuckerman, 2008, Society without God: What the Least Religious Nations Can Tell Us about Contentment.

New York: New York University Press; Peter Berger, 1969, The Sacred Canopy.

New York: Anchor Books. Also see David Voas and Mark Chaves, 2016, “Is

the United States a Counterexample to the Secularization Thesis?,” American Journal of Sociology 121(5): 1517– 1556; Michael Hout and Claude Fischer, 2002, “Why More Americans Have No Religious Preference: Politics and

Generations,” American Sociological Review 67(2): 165– 190.

9. Jose Casanova, 1994, Public Religions in the Modern World. Chicago: University of Chicago Press; Monica Toft, Daniel Philpott, and Timothy Shah, 2011,

God’s Century: Resurgent Religion and Global Politics. New York: Norton; Peter Berger (ed.), 1999, The Desecularization of the World: Resurgent Religion and World Politics. Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans.

10. See, for example, Paul Froese, 2008, The Plot to Kill God: Findings from the Soviet Experiment in Secularization. Berkeley: University of California Press; Fenggang Yang, 2011, Religion in China: Survival and Revival under Communist Rule. New York: Oxford University Press; Joseph Byrnes, 2005, Catholic and French Forever: Religion and National Identity in Modern France. State College: Pennsylvania State University Press. East Germany may be one exception, whose hypersecularity, David Martin notes, reflects “a bargain struck by its communist victors releasing its demoralized people from Nazi guilt if they accepted the complete secularist package.” David Martin, 2011, The Future of Christianity. Farnham: Ashgate, p. 14.

11. Colin Renfrew and Iain Morley, 2009, Becoming Human: Innovation in Prehistoric Material and Spiritual Culture. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.

12. Justin Farrel , 2015, The Battle for Yellowstone: Morality and the Sacred Roots of Environmental Conflict. Princeton: Princeton University Press; Robert Nelson, 2002, Economics as Religion: From Samuelson to Chicago and Beyond. State College: Pennsylvania State University Press; Thomas Dunlap, 2005, Faith in Nature: Environmentalism as Religious Quest. Seattle: University of Washington 150

n o t e s

Press; Robert Nelson, 2009, The New Holy Wars: Economic Religion versus Environmental Religion in Contemporary America. State College: Pennsylvania State University Press; Joseph Price, 2004, From Season to Season: Sports as American Religion. Macon, GA: Mercer University Press; Wil iam Cavanaugh, 2011, Migrations of the Holy: God, State, and the Political Meaning of the Church.

Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans.

13. Lynn Schofield Clark, 2005, From Angels to Aliens: Teenagers, the Media, and the Supernatural. New York: Oxford University Press; Margaret Miles, 1997, Seeing and Believing: Religion and Values in the Movies. Boston: Beacon Press; Richard Bleiler, 2002, Supernatural Fiction Writers: Contemporary Fantasy and Horror. New York: Scribner’s; Connie Neal, 2008, The Gospel According to Harry Potter. Louisville: Westminster John Knox.

14. Nancy Ammerman (ed.), 2007, Everyday Religion: Observing Modern Religious Lives. New York: Oxford University Press; Meredith McGuire, 2008, Lived Religion: Faith and Practice in Everyday Life. New York: Oxford University Press; Grace Davie, 2010, “Vicarious Religion,” Journal of Contemporary Religion 25(2): 261– 266; Grace Davie, 1994, Religion in Britain since 1945.

Hoboken, NJ: Wiley- Blackwel . Also see Slavica Jakelić, 2010, Collectivistic Religion: Religion, Choice, and Identity in Late Modernity. Farnham: Ashgate.

Furthermore, at least some traditional religions, including Christianity (per Saint Augustine, for example), have long argued that many apparently nonreligious activities— including drunken intoxication, wild carousing, pro-miscuous sex, harsh athletic training, committed political activism, incessant material consumption, drug addiction, and so on— represent deep human religious longings and searching and are actually misdirected quests for the true religious good. Such claims seem to tend to arise especially from traditions of monotheism and monism, both of which deny the possibility of the ultimate metaphysical existence of badness and evil.



15. But see Roy Bhaskar, 1998, Critical Realism. New York: Routledge; Andrew Col ier, 1994, Critical Realism. London: Verso; Margaret Archer, 1995, Realist Social Theory. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press; Mats Ekström et al, 2002, Explaining Society: Critical Realism in the Social Sciences. New York: Routledge; Andrew Sayer, 2000, Realism and Social Science. New York: Sage; Roy Bhaskar, 1979, The Possibility of Naturalism.

London: Routledge; Christian Smith, 2010, What Is a Person? Chicago: University of Chicago Press; Philip Gorski, 2009, “Social ‘Mechanisms’ and Comparative-Historical Sociology: A Critical Realist Proposal,” in Björn Wittrock and Peter Hedström (eds.), The Frontiers of Sociology. Leiden: Bril , pp. 147– 194.

16. Smith, 2017, Religion: What It Is, How It Works, and Why It Matters. Princeton: Princeton University Press, p. 22. Here I closely follow, though somewhat revise, the definition of religion advanced earlier by Martin Riesebrodt, who reformulated Melford Spiro’s older definition. Martin Riesebrodt, 2010, 151

n o t e s

The Promise of Salvation: A Theory of Religion. Chicago: University of Chicago Press; also see Melford Spiro, 1966, “Religion: Problems of Definition and Explanation,” in Michael Banton (ed.), Anthropological Approaches to the Study of Religion. London: Tavistock, pp. 87– 126.

17. Riesebrodt defines religion as “a complex of practices that are based on the premise of the existence of superhuman powers, whether personal or impersonal, that are generally invisible.” He writes: “The ‘superhumanness’ of these powers consists in the fact that influence or control over dimensions of individual or social human life and the natural environment is attributed to them— dimensions that are usually beyond direct human control. Religious practices normally consist in using culturally prescribed means to establish contact with these powers to gain access to them.” Riesebrodt 74– 75.

18. Smith, 2010. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.

19. Tom Tweed, 2017, Heavenly Habitats: A History of Religion in the Lands That Became the United States. New Haven: Yale University Press.

20. “Nonmaterial” meaning things like cultural beliefs, oral communications, shared values, etc. (not spirits, angels, etc., necessarily).

21. Smith, 2003, Moral, Believing Animals: Human Personhood and Culture.

New York: Oxford University Press.

22. See, for example, Lynn Davidman, 1991, Tradition in a Rootless World.

Berkeley: University of California Press.

23. Gregory 74.

24. Bell 333.

25. See Christian Smith (ed.), 2003, The Secular Revolution. Berkeley: University of California Press; Ann Taves, 2009, Religious Experience Reconsidered.

Princeton: Princeton University Press; Phil ip Gorski, 2000, “Historicizing the Secularization Debate,” American Sociological Review 65(1)

(February): 138– 167.

26. Charles Taylor, 1992, Sources of the Self. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.

27. One reader of the penultimate version of this chapter noted the lack of parallel in my argument that humans are inescapably moral animals but not inevitably religious creatures, given the close connections I have drawn between religion and morality. This in fact is my view. To be morally oriented and motivated is a condition impossible for human persons to escape (with the exception of psychopathological extremes, which none of us takes to be remotely normal or representative). Smith 2003; 2015, To Flourish or Destruct: A Personalist Theory of Human Goods, Motivations, Failure, and Evil. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. But, as I’ve observed here, humans can be, and many in fact are, not religious. Religion is a primary but not the only source of moral beliefs and commitments, so it is possible that moral orientation is a universal feature of human personhood while religious practice and belief are not.

152

n o t e s

28. Among persuasive works arguing this: Robert Kraynak, 2011, “Justice without Foundations,” New Atlantis, Summer, 103– 120; Alasdair MacIntyre, 1982, After Virtue. Notre Dame, IN: Notre Dame University Press.

29. Smith 2003.

30. Wil iam Cavanaugh, 2009, The Myth of Religious Violence: Secular Ideology and the Roots of Modern Conflict. New York: Oxford University Press.

31. Christian Smith and Brandon Vaidyanathan, 2010, “Religion and Multiple Modernities,” in Chad Meister (ed.), Oxford Handbook of Religious Diversity.

New York: Oxford University Press, pp. 250– 265.

32. See Frank Pasquale and Barry Kosmin, 2013, “Atheism and the Secularization Thesis,” in Stephen Bullivant and Michael Ruse (eds.), The Oxford Handbook of Atheism. New York: Oxford University Press, pp. 451– 467.



Conclusion

1. See Brian Donohue, 2014, “God and Aristotelian Ethics,” Quaestiones Disputatae 5(1): 65– 77. Aristotle’s argument for the existence of God as the Unmoved Mover is presented in book 12, chapters 6– 10, of Metaphysics (New York: Penguin Classics, 1999).

2. The following are good starting points for exploring Aristotelian virtues ethics: Aristotle, 2003, The Nicomachean Ethics. New York: Penguin Classics; Michael Pakaluk, 2005, Aristotle’s Nicomachean Ethics: An Introduction.

Cambridge: Cambridge University Press; Richard Taylor, 2002, Virtue Ethics: An Introduction. Amherst, NY: Prometheus Books; Raymond Devettere, 2002, Introduction to Virtue Ethics: Insights of the Ancient Greeks. Washington, DC: Georgetown University Press; also see Alasdair MacIntyre, 1981, After Virtue: A Study in Moral Theory. Notre Dame, IN: University of Notre Dame Press; Christian Smith, 2010, What Is a Person?: Rethinking Humanity, Social Life, and the Moral Good from the Person Up. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, pp. 384– 490.

3. For Aristotle, the reason the sensible knave turns out to be unhappy in life is not because he suffers grave psychological anxiety about his wrongdoing or the risk of being caught; nor because of violating the logical imperatives of rational reflection; nor because he fails to contribute to the maximization of humanity’s utilitarian pleasures in relation to its pains. It is rather because reality is objectively ordered in such a way that sensible knavery compromises the exercise of the virtues necessary to realize a life of flourishing and happiness. It just won’t happen. That is not a matter of autonomous individual choice. It is just the way reality is and works, which the sensible knave just cannot escape.

4. For an indirectly related discussion, see Christian Smith, 2014, The Sacred Project of American Sociology. New York: Oxford University Press.

153





INDEX

Abbott, Andrews, 148

Bruce, Steve, 108

Abrahamic Faiths, 95, 100, 103, 125, 145

Buddhism, 100

Africa, 47

agape, 144

categorical imperative, 76

AIDS, 47

Catholic Church, 106

altruism, 17, 54

Cavanaugh, Wil iam, 153

antinaturalism, 80

charity, 22, 140

anti- Semitism, 39

child abuse, 85

Archer, Margaret, 151

China, 108

Aristotelian Ethics, 43, 127, 128, 146

Christian Apostles, 52

Aristotle, 126, 129, 143, 153

Christianity, 51, 52, 53, 69, 85, 95, 96, 101,

atheological metaphysics, 89

106, 125, 143, 146, 151

Augustinian view, 135

civil liberties, 14

autonomy, 35, 128, 153

cognitive bias, 43

Cognitive Revolution, 89

baptism, 9

collective interests, 16, 32, 37

barbarism, 40

Col ier, Andrew, 151

Bayer, Lex, 11, 17, 30, 34, 38, 139, 140, 142

Col ins, Francis, 145

believing without belonging, 109

common good, 14, 35

Bel , Daniel, 107, 119

communism, 150

Bel ah, Robert, 107

cooperation, 13, 17, 30, 60, 140

Bentham, Jeremy, 16, 79, 127

covering laws, 110, 111

Berger, Peter, 108

critical realism, 111, 112, 113

Bhaskar, Roy, 151

cultural authority, 97

Bible, the, 77

Big Bang, the, 92

Dartmouth College, 91

Boston Marathon bombing, 38

Darwin, Charles, 20

Brahman, 100

Dawkins, Richard, 5, 95, 98

Brink, David, 140

De Waal, Frans, 11, 141, 144

155

I N D E X

Dennett, Daniel, 5

Glaucon’s challenge, 25, 26

Dershowitz, Alan, 143

Gleiser, Marcelo, 91

Descartes, Rene, 117

global plague, 57

dignity, 18, 19, 23, 53, 137, 139

global warming, 21

divine command theory, 31, 143

globalization, 1, 62, 63, 64, 138

Dostoyevsky, Fyodor, 43

Golden Rule, 14, 24, 136

Durkheimian “conscience collective,” 66

Goldstein, Rebecca, 21, 23

Gorski, Philip, 151, 152

Eagleton, Terry, 95

Greeley, Andrew, 107

East Germany, 150

Gregory, Brad, 106, 118, 149

egalitarianism, 42

Guyer, Paul, 134

egoism, 74

Eliade, Mircea, 107

Haidt, Jonathan, 135

emotivism, 64, 143, 146

happiness, 17, 19, 20, 25, 33, 35, 38, 75, 108,

enlightened self- interest, 15, 16, 24, 26, 30,

129, 138, 153

33, 34, 35, 42, 124

Harari, Yuval Noah, 89, 100

Enlightenment, 36, 41, 52, 69, 106, 115, 124,

Hare, John, 145

127, 128, 129

Harris, Sam, 5, 11, 15, 16, 19, 20, 28, 33, 34,

entropy, 83

131, 141, 144

environmentalism, 109

heliocentric solar system, 98

Epstein, Greg, 11, 14, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23,

hel , 144

28, 37, 38, 39, 137

Herman, Barbara, 134

e udaimonia, 126

Hinduism, 100

eugenics, 59, 98

Hitchens, Christopher, 5

Europe, 121, 144

Holocaust, 38, 121

Euthyphro dilemma, 143

Human Genome Project, 145

Evan, John H., 132

human history’s tragic quality, 39

evil, 37, 39, 41, 151

human nature, 36, 105, 107, 113, 130

evolution, 20, 55, 70, 146

human sacrifice, 51

evolutionary ethics, 60

humanism, 6, 9, 10, 14, 15, 36, 40, 42, 52,

evolutionary psychology, 13, 40

86, 137, 144

extinction, 55

Humanistic Manifesto III (2003), 19

humanitarian, 127

fairness, 13, 16

Hume, David, 25, 26, 66, 77, 133, 134, 135,

Figdor, John, 11, 15, 17, 20, 30, 34, 38, 139,

137, 139, 140, 141, 144, 147

141, 142

hunter- gatherers, 16, 30

FitzPatrick, Wil iam, 147

foundationalism, 117

Iago, 101

France, 108

image of God, 54

free rider problem, 26, 27, 32, 67, 140

inclusive fitness, 40

infanticide, 51

Galileo affair, 99

inference to the best explanation, 125

game theory experiments, 16

Inglehart, Ronald, 108

genetic defects, 139

Insole, Christopher, 133

genocide, 38

intel igent design, 98

geocentric solar system, 99

Islam, 38, 95, 101, 125

156

I N D E X

James, Wil iam, 107

moral facts, 57, 79, 80, 81, 147

Jesus, 52, 96

moral ontology, 23

John Hopkins University, 102

moral philosophy, 43, 79

Judaism, Jewish, 51, 52, 53, 69, 85, 95, 101,

moral progress, 36

125, 143

moral realism, 79, 80

Judeo- Christian, 75

moral sentiments, 16

justice, 19, 42, 47, 51, 54, 77

moral skepticism, 29

moral virtues, 127

Kant, Immanuel, 76, 78, 126, 127, 134, 135,

Mormonism, 96

136, 146, 147

motivated reasoning, 43

Kantian ethics, 13, 16, 21, 24, 27, 76, 77, 78,

motivations, moral, 12, 13, 142

79, 126, 133, 137, 142

Muhammad, 103

karma, 81, 103, 139, 145

murder, 17, 138

kin altruism, 13

kinship selection, 16, 40

Nagel, Thomas, 21, 23

Kitcher, Philip, 11, 14, 16, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23,

National Institute of Health, 145

24, 27, 28, 30, 31, 36, 138, 142

nationalism, 39

Knight, Margaret, 137

natural law, 26, 55, 66, 139

Kraynak, Robert, 153

natural selection, 55, 62

Kurtz, Paul, 132

naturalism, 6, 23, 45, 49, 50, 55, 57, 60,

63, 68, 74, 82, 84, 85, 86, 103, 124,

Lamore, Charles, 147

139, 147

Leakey, Richard, 91, 93

naturalistic fallacy, 137

Lewin, Roger, 91, 93

nature, 112

“Life Questions”, 118, 119

Nazis, 39, 143, 150

Linden, David, 102

New Age, 109

Lindsay, Ronald, 11, 137, 138, 141

New Atheism, 5, 98, 115, 122, 149

Luther, Martin, 135

Nielson, Kai, 11, 136, 137, 138, 143

Lutheranism, 77

Nietzsche, Friedrich, 39, 43, 120, 127, 144

nihilism, 43, 74, 102

MacIntyre, Alasdair, 77, 140, 141, 143, 144,

nirvana, 103

146, 153

Norris, Pippa, 108

Martin, David, 150

medieval Christendom, 128

original sin, 40

Menuge, Angus, 148

Otto, Rudolf, 107

metaphysical naturalism, 46, 49, 125

Ozment, Katherine, 11, 39

metaphysical pluralism, 81

metaphysics, 23, 46, 69, 75, 85, 92, 97, 99,

patriarchy, 51

101, 146, 151

Perry, Michael, 145

methodological naturalism, 46, 123

personalism, 137

Mil , John Stuart, 79, 127

philosophical anthropology, 54

Miller, Donald, 107

philosophy, philosophers, 7, 8, 39, 87, 103,

modernity, 52, 108

130, 138

Monism, 151

physicists, 147

monotheism, 72, 73, 84, 85, 151

Platonic tradition, the, 134, 135

moral education, 67

Polanyi, Michael, 100

157

I N D E X

police, 30

secularism, secularity, 1, 2, 3, 4, 19, 41, 106,

Porpora, Doug, 136

108, 115, 122, 142, 150

positivist empiricism, 110

secularization, 1, 3, 111, 122, 125, 131,

postcolonialism, 107

144, 146

postmodernism, 107, 128

selective incentives, 140

pragmatic functionalism, 15

self- deception, 54

presuppositions, 117

self- evidence, 147

Princeton University, 76

self- evident ethical nonnaturalism, 80

prisoner’s dilemma, 16

self- evident moral realism, 82

prisoners of conscience, 47

self- interest, 33, 65, 141

progress, 57, 70

selflessness, 34, 40, 54, 70

prosociality, 14, 40, 60

sensible knave, 25, 26, 27, 28, 32, 35, 36,

protestant reformation, 83, 106, 109, 121

37, 66, 77, 124, 126, 139, 140, 141,

Psalmist, 57

142, 153

public intellectuals, 90

sex trade, 85

public shaming, 30

Shafer- Landau, Russ, 79, 80, 81, 82, 133,

punishment, social, 29, 30, 31, 141

147, 148

shame, 141

Rachels, James, 146

Silver Rule, of Rabbi Hillel and

rape, 142

Confucius, 136

reasonable skeptic, 22, 53, 64, 126, 133,

Singer, Peter, 76, 146

139, 142

Sinnott- Armstrong, Walter, 11, 141, 142

reciprocal altruism, 16, 40

skeptical Enlightenment, 52, 107, 121

reciprocity, 13, 16

slavery, 51, 85

reincarnation, 103

Smith, Adam, 16, 65

religion, defined, 112

Smith, Joseph, 96

reproductive fitness, 59, 62, 70

snitching, 30

reputation, 13, 141

social contract, 15, 18, 26, 36, 66, 68, 124, 126

respect, 14, 16, 46, 47

social control, 30, 31

rewards, 30

sociobiology, 13, 40

Riesebrodt, Martin, 151, 152

socrates, 25

Rist, John, 132, 147

solidarity, 13, 17

Russel , Bertrand, 91

Soviet atheism, 121

Russia, 108

species solidarity rule, 58, 64

“spiritual but not religious”, 109

sadism, 40, 74

Spiro, Melford, 151

Saint Augustine, 151

Stark, Rodney, 107

Saint Paul, 52, 103

Stenger, Victor, 90, 93

samsara, 103

strong evaluations, 120

Schilbrack, Kevin, 149

suffering, 40

science, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 16, 36, 48, 50, 80, 81,

Suikkanen, Jussi, 148

87, 88, 107, 123, 125, 130, 138

superstitions, 40

scientific methods, 46, 93, 100

Surprenant, Chris, 133

scientific realism, 29

surveil ance, 30

scientism, 93, 94, 103, 143

survival- of- the- fittest, 73

158

I N D E X

sustainability, 15

University of Toronto, 132

symbolization, 116

University of Wisconsin, 79

sympathy, sentiments, 52, 65, 140

utilitarianism, 75, 76, 126, 144, 153

Utopia, 19, 37

Taylor, Charles, 42, 55, 120, 139, 144

terrorism, 38

Vicarious Religion, 109

this- worldly asceticism, 83

Thomistic theology, 128

Weber, Max, 83

tolerance, 47

Weinberg, Steven, 92, 93, 94, 101

torture, 47, 85

Wielenberg, Erik, 147, 148

tragedy, 39

Wilson, Brian, 108

trolley problem, 16, 34

Wilson, Edward O., 90, 93, 101, 148

Tsarnaev, Dzhokhar, 38

Wolterstorff, Nicholas, 145

Tsarnaev, Tamerlan, 38

Wood, Allen, 134

turf, 88, 99, 100

World War II, 98, 124

Twain, Mark, 9

young- earth creationism, 98

United Nations, 47, 48

universalism, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 40

Zoroaster, 103

University of Hawaii, 90

Zuckerman, Phil, 11, 108, 112

159





Document Outline


Cover

Atheist Overreach

Copyright

Contents

Introduction

1. Just How “Good without God” Are Atheists Justified in Being?

2. Does Naturalism Warrant Belief in Universal Benevolence and Human Rights?

3. Why Scientists Playing Amateur Atheology Fail

4. Are Humans Naturally Religious?

Conclusion

Notes

Index





